ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Allow me, on this occasion, to the fellow Members of the National Assembly, and to all the ladies in and out of the country, to give my best to my fellow Members the best of my wife's international day. Of course, also to all the visitors who are among us in the stands. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Joseph Horvat from 3 p.m., Martin Mikolič from 12 p.m., my trifle from 6 p.m., Mrs Breda Pecan, mag. Majda Pouta from 16:00 on, Maria Pozsonec, Aloise Sok, Aloyz Posedel, Miran Jerič and Dr Mitja Slavinec from 16:00 on. We're moving to 2. It's a report by the Constitutional Commission on the preparation of the constitutional amendment bill of 83, 100. AND 167. MEMBER OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, EPA 664-IV. We have two hours and five minutes to discuss. At its 17th session, on 23 May 2006, the National Assembly, with the necessary two-thirds majority of Members and Members present, adopted a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and instructed the Constitutional Commission that a restriction should be established in the drafting of a proposal for a constitutional law, on the basis of the text submitted by the draft constitutional law amending Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, or in the drafting of the text of Article 83 of the proposal, and in what way the scope of immunity for violations of the prohibition referred to in Article 63 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia should be determined. The Constitutional Commission, by means of an expert group on the Constitutional Commission for the field of parliamentary immunity, carried out the requested examination and, in the first stage of the constitutional audit procedure, supplemented the adopted amendment of Article 83 with an amendment which would not recognise immunity as a violation of Article 63 of the Constitution. Further to the decision on the content of the proposal for a constitutional law, the Constitutional Commission did not adopt such a complementary text of the proposal of the Constitutional Law. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 180 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will, after today's debate on the report of the Constitutional Commission, adopt the views to be taken into account by the Constitutional Commission in the preparation of a new proposal for a constitutional law. Proposals for views to be taken into account by the Constitutional Commission in the preparation of a new proposal for a constitutional law may be tabled by the end of the general debate on the report of the Constitutional Commission by Members, a parliamentary group or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The views tabled will be discussed as part of the remainder of the announced time following the conclusion of the general debate. In the event that none of the views are adopted, we will then, by a simple majority, decide on the decision under Article 180(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The procedure for amending Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been completed. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the second paragraph of Article 177 of our Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that it will no longer be possible to submit a substantively identical proposal to amend the Constitution in this mandate, nor will it be possible to deal with it on the Constitutional Commission. We are moving on to the consideration of the report of the Constitutional Commission, which is the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups on the report of the Constitutional Commission. The first is Mr Bajc on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, even on my behalf and a beautiful day and a nice celebration for my colleagues. The Constitutional Commission has examined the proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the current Constitution of Slovenia. The matter under consideration relates to the immunity of Members of the State Councilors and Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In considering the proposal to initiate the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law concerning 83., 100. and 167. of the Constitution relating to immunity, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group stressed that the current regime of immunity of members of the National Assembly received the most justified criticism as well as abuse. The reason for this is most often, as has been said, the abuse of this institute either by individual members of the National Assembly or by members or saints of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, it is worth noting that attempts to change the Institute of Immunity, in particular procedural immunity, have been made since the adoption of the Constitution, which is from 1991 on, but to date we have not found a solution that supports enough Members. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group have repeatedly stressed that we will support or vote in favour of a compromise proposal for a constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which completely eliminates the procedural immunity of Members and regulates substantive immunity slightly wider than it has been so far. The same immunity as Members is proposed to be maintained by the judges of the Constitutional Court and state councilors should no longer have immunity according to the new ones. In the past, we have been Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group also co-signors of the proposal for constitutional regulation of this area in a way that would completely delete the provisions on parliamentary immunity, so of course we are prepared to support a proposal that in any way strengthens the current possibility of using immunity and, of course, the wide scope of the use of immunity would also allow certain abuses. In the present proposal to amend the Constitution, which is the subject of today's decision, we have sought a compromise proposal to eliminate the immunity of the Councils of State, the immunity of the judges of the Constitutional Courts to the immunity of members of the National Assembly. Members would not be liable, either criminally or indemnity, or against them, to initiate the procedure for an opinion or a vote expressed by the Member in the exercise of his or her function. The fact is that the Constitutional Commission did not support the first section when voting on a proposal for a constitutional law, so a two-thirds majority was not provided for in order to adopt a decision adopting a constitutional law. We believe that in the work of the Constitutional Commission, everyone is pursuing the same objective. The proposal by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group, which in fact led to the lack of sufficient support for the draft law on the Constitutional Commission, means that the Member's liability for compensation is indeed maintained. The adoption of this proposal would mean that we have not made a significant change in our immunity. The exclusion of the Member's liability for the opinion and vote would be recorded, with the exception of which it would allow for the exercise of compensation against a Member in an area which is relatively broad and covers, for example, the notion of regret. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the text of the proposal for a constitutional law that we considered at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission represented an appropriate compromise which could have obtained the necessary two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support proposals in the future aimed at limiting parliamentary immunity or marrying this institution. This, in our view, also reduces the possibility of abuse. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group call on all Members of this National Assembly to try to harmonise or agree on a compromise proposal. If this is not possible today, we must start again in the future with coordination, the result of which will be the final regulation of this important area of our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr Friend has the following word on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, dear visitors, visitors! This is simply a matter of constitutional law. Immunity belongs to all Members of Parliament and Members, not only in this National Assembly, but also elsewhere, when they represent their views. We simply cannot go beyond the fact that, in the first phase, when amendments to Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of Slovenia were tabled in the National Assembly, this decision was supported by a two-thirds majority. With the proposed position they are proposing, we wanted the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a proposal that would be essentially the same as the attached draft constitutional law, without further amendment. That is why we believe, and we have also put forward a proposal for a position that the Constitutional Commission must draw up a proposal for a law that will be regulated to protect the Member even when it represents its interests outside this environment. In fact, today we can talk about the matter of compensation, so, with every Member, once he has made a point, look at this case, the last one, for example, the President of our Party Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, was essentially talking about unacceptable facts about Mr Aksentijevic, who was on the wrong side at the time, was the occupying party. He's suing him today. It's a kind of paradox. And these are essentially the actual truths that are happening and we think that this National Assembly should also look at the little arrangements of other countries and Members and Members of Parliament to protect properly with immunity, which, of course, would be both procedural and material. And from this point of view, we think it's a step backwards. The proposal we have put forward is clear and we expect the debate to continue in this direction and that this proposal will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Genius, on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u6	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment to the Constitution refers to the Institute of Immunity as provided for in Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of Slovenia. For Members, this institution represents one of the guarantees for their smooth work, as well as the smooth work of Parliament itself. Members of our party point out that this institution for the work of the National Assembly is urgently needed because, otherwise, Members would not be guaranteed freedom of speech, they would be exposed to various pressures and bullying, and they could be subjected to bullying procedures, because of the actions brought against them they would not normally be able to perform their parliamentary functions. The proposed amendment to the Constitution repeals or removes the procedural and legal immunity of a Member, members of the Council of State and the judges of the Constitutional Court and extends their substantive legal immunity by excluding, in addition to criminal liability, indemnity and the initiation of proceedings against a Member for an opinion or a vote he has given in the performance of his office. We would like to point out that the definition set out in the ratified Treaty on the Constitution for the European Union follows in essence. The requests for amendments to the constitutional regime of immunity have become more serious when Members on the basis of civil convictions are aware, for words from the parliamentary stage, that their immunity does not extend to the civil-law field. That is how questions began to be asked or whether it was even freedom of speech or debate if there was a possibility of civil-legal responsibility for the said words in Parliament. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the extension of material and legal immunity is necessary, since it is only by doing so that the freedom of speech of Members, expressed opinions and votes will be exercised to the greatest extent possible. We estimate that the culture of behaviour of people who are elected as a Member at such a level that in Parliament itself there should be no civil delinquency such as regret, false accusations and slander in relation to other fellow Members or representatives of the Government, as well as to representatives of citizens or citizens themselves. Material and legal immunity shall also be extended in the sense that it is not only related to the opinion or vote expressed at meetings of the National Assembly or its working bodies, but also includes other tasks performed by Members. Members of the DeSUS believe that such enlargement is more comprehensive in protecting the Member's function. Here, of course, the position in the parliamentary group was divided. Some of us four advocate that this material and legal immunity should be limited by the provisions of Article 63 of the Constitution, which speaks of the promotion of inequality, intolerance, violence and war, we all support to include it in the dictates of change. However, when it comes to false accusations, severe regrets and accusations against those who cannot defend themselves in the same position, our opinions have diverged in the sense that I think this material and legal immunity should only be cut down to the point that someone is not on this account and at the expense of this immunity has unscrupulously accused false acts or behaviour and thus escaped the possible civil and legal action and compensation required from this title. We also understand the position of others who say that the culture of debate is at such a level that it will not occur, but that the current event speaks quite the opposite. In this National Assembly, many debaters have been gravely offended and falsely slandered by citizens of all levels, and therefore we believe that this matter must be limited to change or immunity. In everything else, however, we are united in supporting all attempts to definitively resolve the issue of immunity, but with these obstacles to the unity of our vote, and therefore, in this particular case, we will vote on our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u7	The word has magic. Grimes, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. And I'll give everyone a nice round of applause! Today, of course, our words are intended primarily for the public, and to a large extent they are also about to refresh the memory, because the story we are witnessing now stretches like the yoke of the serpent for about half the mandate of this National Assembly and therefore let us go from the key points forward. Just at the beginning of its term of office, this National Assembly, in this composition, endorsed the proposal of the Constitution of the European Union. This is interesting, as we will see later, because some things that touch on today’s subject matter are very precisely regulated by this Constitution. It received 72 votes, so, of course, from the principle that we have the same criteria for all, it would probably be expected that this could in some way be an example and a direction for our work to go on. This was also our starting point when we started preparing for a change in the Constitution, but it turned out that the matter would not go so easily in this direction. For this reason, we have found that there is a very high willingness to tighten immunity, and that is why in the SDS we have proposed, together with the coalition partners, the greatest possible resuscitation of immunity, which means that a simple rule on immunity from the Slovenian Constitution is simply deleted. This was then a proposal that was parallel to another proposal, which Mr Potrč was the carrier, which was tabled in Parliament for more than a year in parallel. As it turned out that things covered a wider circle, i.e. I would have remembered the debate at the time, neither of these two proposals could actually get a majority of the votes, we began to seek compromise, we reached a compromise, we gathered more than 60 signatures of Members and Members under it, and we believed that we had arranged the matter in a European comparable way to complete this text. Unfortunately, then, at the end of the final vote, the Constitutional Commission has run out of votes and today we are discussing this in the way that is before us. Now, why is this even going on, because, as we say, I just need to freshen up a few things. Anyone who believes that the debate is taking place and that this meeting is today and a few other meetings of the Constitutional Commission, due to MEPs and Members, is, of course, mistaken, should remember how the debate took place. When we tabled in the SDS together with coalition partners the proposal to remove immunity from the Slovenian Constitution was a public discourse, which went mainly, that immunity was something extremely scandalous, somewhat contemptible, that it was actually a black stain on Slovenian democracy, and then one day it was revealed that it provided Slovenian Constitutions with the same immunity as for Members and members of the National Council also applied to Constitutional Judges. In the course of the night, the way of reporting immunity has completely changed, you can go watch newspapers one week before this and one week after this disclosure. The following week, in the same newspapers, there were publications of immunity is a civilizational acquisition, it is necessary to keep it for every assessment, and if until that moment there was a real possibility in the discussions between us that the deletion of immunity would take place completely, of course there was no more from that point on. This is what we say when we talk about immunity, we don't talk about MPs, we talk about constitutional judges, that's the first thing we need to know. The second thing we need to say about this is whether we even have immunity. Members of the SDS consider that we do not have immunity, there are two reasons. The first is just a definition of the Slovenian Constitution, which is very unusual in this part. Interestingly, even the authors of the Constitution themselves, which they wrote at the time, say that this was meant differently. When they discussed immunity in the writing of the Constitution, they considered that immunity for words spoken in the framework of the parliamentary function, that is to say, in the National Assembly, within the framework of what the Constitution provides, is complete, that it also covers compensation immunity. However, interpretations later showed that a different position prevailed and that immunity covered only a criminal provision. That's so interesting. For the same article speaks not only of the spoken words, but many have overlooked that the same article in the same sentence also speaks of the votes, so it is theoretically possible, it has not happened yet, and perhaps no one has so far figured out that someone would seek compensation for the vote. That would be theoretically possible, too. For the words spoken, this is already a reality. But the same paragraph, once again, speaks of a voice. That is to say, if, at any time, the opposition had succeeded in not adopting an important act, let's say that the budget would have been cut down and that the school would have left behind no wages, after this analogy, someone, a teacher, would have sued a member of the opposition's National Assembly, one who, by his vote, had prevented the budget from being adopted because he had lost his salary or a lower salary than he would have otherwise. Such an interesting provision is in the Constitution. For this reason, and this was also one of the arguments, we actually proposed deleting such a text, because such a text is worse than it is not at all, because immunity in its original sense is intended for the National Assembly to operate smoothly, the immunity of any institution, for example, by judges. And they have the perfect, even words spoken by them in court or in court. Any immunity is intended for the smooth functioning of the institution, and now let's look at it from this point of view that I just said. In this part concerning the direct functioning of the institution, we do not have immunity at all after the Constitution. However, we have immunity that allows abuse, which refers to immunity for proceedings in the event of a suspected crime. And even the most pervasive case committed by the State Council on the basis of these provisions, since the same provisions apply to it, when the entire legal profession, as the general public, agreed that it was an abuse, because it was a matter of a purely private nature, could not affect the work of the State Council in any way, but one state councilman was granted immunity, which is in fact the best evidence of how embarrassing the constitutional norm in this part. For this reason, as we have said, we have been prepared, personally I am still at any time ready to vote for this to be deleted in full. For it is better that there is no such norm, and that of any dispute, of any doubt, the Constitutional Court or any other, but that it weighs the values. That's what he does when a dilemma is open. Well, let's move on. So we have immunity, which is no immunity, we have a provision that allows abuse. As the SDS has said, this does not apply in this mandate. At the beginning of our term of office, all Members have publicly waived any reference to immunity. So, at least with this thing about us, there can't be any problems. But it is a question of whether we can find one solution that would benefit everyone. If the deletion does not receive sufficient support, as we say, we have gone in the direction of compromise. In our view, this compromise has been quite good, but in particular it should be based on some logic, but it should be given a majority. In fact, let me read two things that this National Assembly has already accepted and spoken. It's the Constitution for Europe. See, an investigation must not be initiated against a member of the European Parliament, should not be detained or should not be brought against him on the basis of an opinion or a vote he has made in the performance of his duties. That's what the National Assembly has already confirmed with 72 votes, if I recall correctly, for. This is exactly the same text as proposed for regulation in Slovenia. It is interesting that if we accept something else here, then our European Members will be in an unusual position, because they will be subject to such arrangements to the borders of their homeland and, from the borders, to the arrangements in this Constitution, which is likely to be adopted sooner or later in one form or another, in this part. By the way, there is no public controversy in the European Union, so that is probably a fact. Well, one more thing is even more interesting, even in the light of some discussions. This Constitution gives immunity even more wide, not only to Members and Members, but also speaks this way, on the territory of each Member State and irrespective of their nationality, officials and even other servants of the Union, enjoy full immunity, only when determined, subject to the provisions of the Constitution, for acts committed and including spoken and written words. To translate this into ordinary Slovenian; other employees are also, for example, guards, drivers, cleaners, cooks. That is to say, in this National Assembly, we have given a Slovenian citizen, who will be employed in the European Union, who will work on our soil, as a chauffeur or as a security guard, full immunity for everything he will do in the performance of his official duty. But some of us deny it to our Members. Very interesting. If we move on. It is absurd that, in addition to indemnifications that have already been a reality, it is possible to influence work in the National Assembly in other ways, given by such text - I have already talked about this - and this is a simple dilemma. Are we able to sit together and resolve things supported in an open conversation or not? Most in the SDS Group estimate that if the issue of immunity, which is obviously very poorly regulated in the existing Constitution, this possibility of good regulation fell as a collateral victim to a disruption in the second part of the political spectrum, because this makes it possible to understand the story as it unfolded, the changes in views, the signatures, which then did not apply and everything else, are for a period when it is clearly different to the individual move. And on the question of whether we are able to honestly discuss what it is, in fact, with these so-called opportunities to abuse the word in Parliament, for the first time, what it is. Recently, there was a very interesting debate on television when there was a lot of debate about whether if someone said "Casar is naked", it was appropriate or inappropriate. Yes, there are some things that make the debate interesting, which may even make the debate more understandable and these things not only make sense, but are also necessary and are a norm in any country with a long-standing democratic tradition, but look at the distortions of debate in the English Parliament as an example. And in this part, I have to say that it's going too far here, because democracy is working on the basis of a conversation, based on the confrontation of arguments, also on the basis of conflict, if you want, which in this part is creative. Secondly, it is not wrong for the interlocutor to hold on to certain principles in public discussion, but it is a matter of political culture, even if you want to lead the meeting and in this work as we discussed compromises, we all agreed that some mechanism that does not work in practice, that, in a few moments, I will also prove it, does not serve anything, but it makes sense that those who lead the meeting have more power to intervene immediately if someone misuses a given word. We all agreed on that, everybody. This is said to be the case with the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, but it would make sense that if someone starts talking about someone who is not here, especially if they go into personal matters or if it's obvious that by continuing a discussion they can cause a person intentional business damage, they stop and point it. Here must be the possibility of action, what happens afterwards does not prevent anything in reality. And now we come to a major debate, which has been going on for how long from this compromise. The question of the possibility of exercising responsibility under judicial proceedings. The first question is who really trusts our courts 100%, this is one very interesting question that we will be able to discuss in more detail at the next item on the agenda. But then we must first define what judicial policy is, and now time does not allow it, it will be enough time later. The other thing that is even more important to this issue is to talk about the fact that compensation is preventing inappropriate words from appearing is, of course, an obvious nonsense. We all know that, people of God. If that were true, then all those words that had ever been spoken here and we agreed that they were not appropriate should never have appeared at all. That's what you say. It's a mechanism that doesn't work. And it makes no sense to lose energy by prolonging, to some extent or in whole or in part, the validity of a mechanism that does not work. Other solutions need to be sought, and other solutions would actually be in the holding of the meeting, which would make sense. The second part that doesn't work, you know, it doesn't just work for us, it's a similar arrangement, it's also very much referred to, Germany has. While there is this two-step, it is not quite as it is usually said there that everyone can sue you, as with us right now, there in fact, as with us for criminal acts, there first decides the competent body of the German Parliament or permit persecution, and if there is a lawful prosecution, then it goes to a court in a private suit of a private individual, against a Member. But how about this in practice, what about these insulting accusations in the German Constitution. When the constitutional experts checked, they confirmed the words, and interestingly enough, I had to open the subject myself. Indeed, no one has ever been convicted in Germany of this, in all decades of the existence of the German Constitution. You know how it really was. I don't know exactly what the numbers are anymore, but about 20 of these procedures were actually triggered. The vast majority of them have already ended up on a committee which, simply because of its decision by a qualified majority, has not given green light to the continuation of the proceedings. In one case, however, the proceedings were indeed closed, but in that case the case was eventually dismissed. It is also said that this mechanism does not produce any results, there are many complications and there are no results. And it makes no sense to waste an infinite amount of time looking for such or other political points for a solution that obviously does not work. If so much energy were to be invested in the search for appropriate business arrangements, I firmly believe that solutions that everyone would agree on would have been found long ago. In the SDS, we hope, however, that at the end of the day, the word will prevail to show that it is only possible to find in this House those who are worthy of trust at all levels, and for this reason our Group tends to support the conclusion that, on the basis of the compromise already reached, the possibility of drafting the final text of the proposal will be reconsidered, of course, provided that it is actually possible to obtain 60 votes for it. The poor arrangement in the Constitution certainly convinces us of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Dr. Gaber, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u10	Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the current regime of immunity in the Slovenian Constitution is insufficient. This fact has been proved by our colleagues and colleagues, indeed more often in the State Council than in these benches. That is why we have supported the LDS in the House of Representatives, and we support today's desire for an appropriate regulation of this area. Let me remind us all that immunity, of course, is not a very new invention. Let me remind you why it came to her. It did not come to her in any way so that the Members and Members could say anything to them. In particular, it did not come about in order to avoid possible prosecution if people who are not in Parliament and who do so are constantly being insulted, perhaps even with a desire to do serious harm to someone. This immunity was achieved so that the ruler could not cut down and prevent the words of the Members or Members when they had something to say to you against the authorities. This is the core of the story of immunity and has nothing in particular to do with this arrangement, with the desire to protect itself from citizens and citizens who feel our words as words attacking their personal integrity. Because this tradition needs to be preserved, we stand for two. First of all, we support the level of consensus achieved, it seems wise for us to withdraw immunity from all acts that have nothing to do with the management of the function. This is also the point of view of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe. At the same time, we would like, in line with what has already been said here today, to limit immunity to another point, to one that has already been mentioned, and I will mention it myself once more. For us there is absolutely no need for immunity to protect those between us who do not realize that even from this consecrated city, even from a place in these benches, it is not possible to place people who are not here in positions that undermine their personal integrity. It is impossible to allow, at least in our opinion, to write into the Constitution the possibility that I am from this place repeatedly, consecutively and systematically undermining the reputation of a person by claiming to be lying, stealing, being corrupt and not knowing what else. And when that person gives it back to me in the same words, I can sue her for those words, while she can't. When I talk about the journalist being corrupt, because he exposes certain of my actions, then he cannot bring proceedings against me, if he claims that I am actually the same, but under the regime that is in force in this country and would be definitive if they wrote an article as loosely as it is now in this second part, it could. As a Member, I would demand in a very large part of the newspaper the publication of my denials, what this journalist claims, could sue this journalist in court, while he could not do so against me. Even worse, even if we leave the press behind, this applies to every relation to every citizen and every citizen. Colleagues and colleagues! I am deeply convinced that we do not need such arrangements. We don't need that privilege. We need a privilege that is old, very old, in the first parliaments, they have thought about it, even in that Spain, which was the first one, that it is not possible for the authorities to prevent, especially the executive power, from preventing Members and Members from being critical of it when they rule. It would make sense to agree here somewhere, and we are in favour of such an agreement, including those agreements that would indicate the competences of Members or those who lead the meetings of the National Assembly when such a breach occurs. Let me conclude by pointing out that there are countries that are similar to the one we propose to be in the European Union. Germany, Finland, Poland, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary, Sweden, Greece, Denmark and England know the limits in this point. Of course, it is true that they use them very carefully to use them rarely, but those who point out how rarely they use them use statistics in such a way that they silence one fact that this threat, that if you go too far, if you are offensive, if you do it systematically, it hangs over you and limits you and directs you. The rule of law has this task quite often, this role and let it have it here as well. I don't know what they're supposed to be afraid of. So we will support the proposal, which we have tabled ourselves, that the debate continues and that this National Assembly is trying to achieve a change in the Constitution in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The debate on amendments to the text of the Constitution on immunity has been held for more than 2 years. During this time several different options and proposals have been considered, we can say virtually everyone who is able, from the proposal to abolish immunity altogether, to the proposal to maintain only criminal legal immunity for a vote or an opinion in the performance of a Member's duty, and to the proposal to reintroduce immunity for indemnity in full or only in cases of malicious indemnity. All the time since the date of the submission of the proposal, which was prepared for the initiative of the Member and Members of the Social Democrats, it was almost entirely agreed that immunity could not be granted to Members and Members for actions not directly related to their work, i.e. the so-called procedural immunity. As regards immunity for these acts, it has happened in the past that, in the National Assembly and in particular in the State Council, it has also been granted in cases where such conduct has not been justified because it has constituted an unjustified privilege of higher-a-governance to other citizens and citizens and has been granted to those who have voted in favour of such immunity because of unfair conduct. To be commended, statistics prove this, Members and Members of the Social Democrats are the only parliamentary group on which none of the Members have ever voted for such immunity. Since the introduction of the proposal for constitutional changes in December 2004, such immunity has not been granted to anyone, neither in the National Assembly nor in the State Council, and I would hope to state that this is, in addition to public pressure, a common understanding of Members and Members, who, in discussing the changes and additions to the Constitution on immunity, have found that it is not really proper to grant immunity for acts which are not related to parliamentary work, but represent ordinary property, blood or any other delicts that any other citizen can do, which, of course, cannot then enjoy. It cannot be argued that the Constitutional Commission, and especially its President, and the first to be signed under different variants of proposals, together with the expert group, have not tried to find a new language. Many times we have been very close to united opinions, but the current events and conduct of individuals in the National Assembly have prevented us from reaching a final consensus. In order to end the procedural immunity for acts not related to the exercise of the parliamentary function, it was very soon a uniform opinion and I would like to argue that we would have achieved today, if not full consent, but at least strongly through the two-thirds opinion of all Members and Members. Despite attempts to stress that the removal of parliamentary immunity from the Constitution is the most consistent solution, we have also reached a majority consensus soon enough that such a solution would be something special and also contrary to European practice. The proposals that immunity should be limited only to criminal law, but not to compensation, to coalition parties and to the Slovenian National Party have never encountered support, and this has been the most ongoing debate. Therefore, if we would like to narrow immunity only to acts related to the work of the Member States, we should also agree to a new regime of immunity for compensation liability, although the exceptional cases cited by such a fact as the reason did not fully justify this. However, only in relation to acts related to parliamentary work, but not for traffic accidents, abuse of position or blood-delicts, we had to seek compromise proposals in this direction in order not to repeat our old practice. We have tried to find them in such a way as not to protect the offending speech of Members with immunity. For we believe that a Member can assert his interests, argue his proposals and express social criticism by deliberately accusing and injuring no one of unlawful and immoral acts in order to discredit him and to make him publicly impossible. Indeed, experts have warned us that the legal design of such solutions is not easy. Above all, it could be very vague and uncertain their use in practice. However, for this reason, we have been prepared by the advocates of these solutions for many modifications to this proposal. We were convinced that the implementation of this solution was necessary, since the conduct of some individuals had repeatedly convinced us, even this meeting was such that certain constitutional and legal barriers were needed, that offensive or hate speech in the National Assembly would not be allowed and enforced across reasonable borders. However, the proponents of the enforcement of immunity against liability insisted that they could not be restricted and that Members must be free to express themselves to this extent in order to allow individuals to feel insulted by a Member's speech. Indeed, not so much at the meetings of the Constitutional Commission, because this is not constitutional matter, but in the groups of the President of the Constitutional Commission, where we have coordinated possible solutions, there has been a lot of talk about how a few brakes can be regulated by business provisions. Apart from the principled agreement of all to make it useful, we have not come any further from this principled agreement. We didn't even get any concrete ideas where and how to fix this. The current practice of running the National Assembly also by the President of the National Assembly reminds us that there is no great willingness to do so, because the President himself says many times, because I cannot continue to take it away from anyone who says a single word because I cannot assume what he will say. I'm not saying it's right, but that's his way of doing it. Because I think that sometimes only a few times would be possible to draw attention to this, but of course it would require a little more involvement of those who hold the meetings. So we stayed at the point of whether to include insulting charges in immunity or not. At this point, there are currently differences that do not provide solutions with a 2/3 majority. Therefore, none of the options on the Constitutional Commission has received the necessary support and the Constitutional Commission has therefore found that the Constitutional Law proposal has no support and is preparing only a draft report to be adopted by the National Assembly as a result of the conclusion of the debate on this proposal. However, the National Assembly may draw up a position for the Constitutional Commission to re-examine and take into account when preparing a new proposal for amendments to the Constitution. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia has prepared such a proposal. He prepared it as another to say a variation in the limitation of immunity for compensation when the Member would intentionally intervene in the right to personal dignity or a good name and honor the other person. We can accept such a proposal in the Social Democrats' Group of Members because it is within the framework of the direction we have advocated so far. We caution, however, that this is our view that it is only prudent to adopt such a position if the ruling coalition is really prepared to incorporate such a position into the constitutional text and adopt it with a 2/3 majority, otherwise it will be just another round of repetition of all the debates that we have already had with the result that we are perhaps also facing today. I hope that the debate on immunity, even if it were concluded today, was useful. That it has established the belief that it is moral to grant immunity only for an opinion or a voice related to the work of the Member State, but not for other offences. However, as far as the work of the Member State is concerned, immunity has not yet been granted because there was no such need. I hope that the fact that procedural immunity, if concluded today, would not be deleted. Good practices in recent years, when procedural immunity has not been distributed, will not change and will not be recognized again for any crimes that constitute slander or injury to a foreign matter, which has unfortunately happened in the past. And I hope that there will be fewer and fewer cases of offensive and hostile speech or deliberate and deliberate interference with the human integrity of another. And if we do that, the debate on immunity will reach at least part of its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Kokalj has the last word on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The New Slovenia Group, as we have pointed out many times, also represented a reserved position in this part to intervene in the Constitution. As a matter of principle, we believe that interventions to the Constitution are not recommended unless they significantly improve the democratic and legal consistency of the State and the protection of human rights. Of course, the New Slovenia Group does not oppose any improvements that are necessary, such as the proposal to amend Article 129, which will be dealt with in the next paragraph, with the aim of remedying judicial backlogs. However, we believe that before any decision to intervene in the basic legal act of the State, it is necessary to carefully consider whether it is indeed a matter of sufficient importance and whether it is actually possible to achieve this content by a two-thirds majority. With regard to the consideration of the proposal, despite the fact that we felt that the case was doomed to fail for the reasons already stated today, this is from past practice and also from a hypothetical assumption that this procedure is not necessary. Nevertheless, we have taken this approach seriously and responsibly and have worked together in order to reach a constructive compromise if it can be achieved. We also believe that the Institute of Immunity is not well regulated in the Constitution, but we do not think that this is such an important content that it would take so long to deal with it in such detail. During the consideration of the draft constitutional law, two additional proposals emerged to specifically state that parliamentary immunity is not recognised as crimes which promote inequality, intolerance, violence and war. These are violations of Article 63 of the Constitution. And another proposal to hold the Member, irrespective of immunity, responsible for the regrets of the good name and honour he has expressed in the exercise of his post. Most members supported the first proposal with the necessary two-thirds majority. The exception under which immunity does not apply to Article 63 of the Constitution, but with a sufficient majority, did not support the entire first section to which the amendment was adopted. That is why the proposal for a constitutional law has not been adopted. In its report, the Expert Commission noted that the definition of an exception to the imposition of damages, insults and infringements would be exempt from liability, would be subject to lax liability and would virtually exempt the entire liability of compensation. The New Slovenia Group fully agrees. Moreover, it considers that the original proposed text of the constitutional law is sufficient and that it does not need to be supplemented. Nevertheless, we have always wanted, as I have already mentioned, a compromise to be found and a joint text to be acceptable to all the Members' groups when it is discussed at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission. In fact, if we are to amend the Constitution, we must reach a level of consensus before the plenary session that will ensure the adoption of a constitutional law with a sufficient majority. What is practical in the adoption of other legislation, according to our assessment, must also be the practice in the adoption of the Constitution. And since this has not happened on the Constitutional Commission, we believe that there is no basis for the continuation of the procedure and for the admission of any of the proposed amendments to the position. Thus, the National Assembly has two choices to put an end to the constitutional audit procedure or decide to adopt the positions to be taken by the Constitutional Commission in the drafting of a new proposal for a constitutional law. As already mentioned by the New Slovenia Group, the proposal for a position to draft a new proposal for a constitutional law proposed by the LDS Chamber for the above reasons will not be supported. Nor will it support the position expressed by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. In fact, we think it is very banal to say that this is a 'creature parish' served in two different circles and it can happen that we will be looking for a solution for two years before the end of our term of office, which obviously, according to the political definition of the candidates already at the start, is not able to produce fruit at the beginning of our assessment, so it seems to us that the debate on this topic is exhausted. Of course, there is another additional argument that has already been cited in the debate. In fact, this Parliament has ratified the text of the Constitutional Treaty for Europe, which does not refer to the immunity of Members of the national Parliament, but has a clear immunity for European Members, and according to our assessment the current situation in the European Union is such that it would be wise to wait for this Constitutional Treaty to happen, because if it were adopted in such or similar form, then we have some orientation for regulating immunity also at national level, perhaps in the next term. However, as I mentioned earlier, we expect from the other parliamentary groups, given that we have supported and actively participated in the process, which we considered to be a failure in advance, also because we felt that the procedures and content were presented for some prestigious reasons, but we would feel fair that our groups would also support our proposal to amend the Constitution, with regard to the representation of Slovenians in the place and in the world, at least to the extent that the procedure on the Constitutional Commission takes place. Today, after three months, no member group has provided enough signatures to begin the process at all, despite the fact that when we adopted the Slovenians Act around the world we have invested in this and promised enormous support and very constructively by all the parliamentary groups, even more, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group has decided to reject the signature, which we find absolutely unacceptable and unfair, given the example that I now state that we have constructively supported this process. However, we believe that it is too much time and energy to invest in something that has already been condemned to failure. So let me conclude by calling on the Members of the Group to go on to some other content of the Constitution, which also seems to the New Slovenia Group to be in place and which it has forwarded to you for signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the report of the Constitutional Commission. I give the first word to Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues, I congratulate you on your 8th of March wife's holiday, and I wish it were such a holiday every day, not just that day. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the process of amending the Constitution in Article 83, which is, in fact, the most important for us, although we mention another 100th and 167th paragraphs, is an important process, since the amendment of the Constitution of the basic act which we have is a major step in changing one's life and work in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't want to repeat words and I won't. You know immunity is the foundation of democracy. The 90 elected Members of this National Assembly are so mature that they know the difference between democracy and anarchy and that democracy is guaranteed only by the word which they can and must say and not only in this case, we have previously heard from a respected colleague, a dedicated hall or in this dedicated place. Our work, colleagues and colleagues, is with people and among people, our work is not limited only to this hall or hall at Šubičeva 4 or Tomšičeva, but is limited from Murska Sobota to Kopra. The fact is that the Member must tell him what people are advising him and want to say and must tell him his conviction, which is reasoned and clear. Therefore, speaking of this, immunity yes or no, makes no sense, by removing immunity for spoken words you would, like it or not, draw the iron curtain again. To be a politician, to speak and to adopt legislation in the fear that every word spoken will result in criminal, criminal or other liability is nonsense, then it is better that there is no State Assembly and that we only have an executive branch of authority that will do what it will do. Another time. The draft Constitutional Law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has created a compromise and you want or do not want, respected colleagues and colleagues, 60, i.e. 2/3 of the majority, 60, I have counted them, Members and Members from all parliamentary groups, this draft Constitutional Law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia amending Articles 83, amending Articles 100 and 167, has been signed and this moral responsibility and right of immunity begins. Therefore, if 60 people have signed that they agree with the draft constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, I expect that 60 votes will also be adopted in the decision to amend articles, such as the draft Constitutional Law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone who has signed and will swallow that word has committed an immoral act. But not to be eloquent, as some have expressed doubts and doubts about who deliberately interferes with something that willfully offend, etc. In the Slovenian National Party, we have no problem with the amendment tabled by respected colleagues from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Not at all. However, you know, the term intended to interfere with the right to personal dignity or a good name is a very relative term. I can give you one great case, just an example. My esteemed colleague, because I appreciate him, I really appreciate him because of his expertise, Mr Milan M. Squeakl, he stated twice at this meeting that he was right to tell two people that he was lying. Now look, these two people can assess, and here's this anachronism, that a respected colleague who spoke on the basis of arguments was deliberately encroaching on the right to dignity or to a good name. This is an anachronism, so I believe that the absolute best, the shortest solution is to adopt the amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party, which simply and clearly states that the draft constitutional law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia should be taken into account. It is clear, it is succinct, and this draft is supported, once again, with the 60th signatures, respected colleagues and colleagues and each of your signatures, because you are my colleagues and colleagues, it means your honor to me. I do not understand the seven representatives of one of the political parties who today stated that they do not support either of the other amendments, signed themselves under the draft constitutional law and oppose themselves. I don't understand that. I can tell you that these are colleagues from New Slovenia. Seven have been signed, and today they are opposed to themselves. They oppose the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, which speaks only of supporting this draft, under which these seven colleagues and colleagues are signed. Talking about criminal, reparation, civil-law and other responsibilities you know, it's misleading the public, pretending to be nice in front of others doesn't make any sense. There must be so much honesty in us that we tell people that we are talking about the inviolability that we, as Members and Members, demand for spoken words, wherever we are in office, in the capacity of a Member or Member. Our duty, the democratic duty, is to disagree with what does not seem right in Slovenia, so we should have a democratic and constitutional state of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the draft Constitutional Law amending the Constitution of Slovenia is supported by the signatures of the 60 Members and Members of the right solution for [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I invite the next one to Mr Kontic's word. At the same time, I welcome young visitors and visitors to the Tribunal. Of course, I also wish young visitors the best for my wife’s day.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I, too, join in congratulatings or beautiful wishes on my wife’s day. The material that we consider today to be a desire for constitutional changes in the field of parliamentary as well as broader immunity is a kind of re-occupation with ourselves. When Members are actually dealing with matters concerning our work or procedures in the exercise of our parliamentary function. I cannot agree in any way that there is no way in the National Assembly to hold a debate in a way that you are not offensive and that you cannot present arguments or arguments in a way that you do not accuse, offend, and, of course, then use parliamentary immunity. Above all, this is problematic because the new solution would also allow Members to invoke immunity when the remaining individuals or groups outside this parliamentary institution find that they have been deplored, that their honour has been regretted, that they have been falsely accused or, in any way, slandered. Of course, the procedure is suspended in this case. On the contrary, a Member may, of course, at any time or a Member, if he finds that his name or dignity has been offended, raise a dispute. This, of course, means that immunity gives several more rights to Members, in order to carry out their duties. Then, of course, we all count on the responsible performance of the function, but sometimes it also means a step across the level that a person would rightly expect in an institution like Parliament. I think that the current regime, which is written down, is bad and that it is necessary to change it, we have reached agreement here and we have signed a proposal for a constitutional or draft constitutional law, which does not mean that we support the constitutional law in advance, regardless of what happens to the text in the procedure itself. Of course, changes are possible for the better, but changes are possible for the worse, and it is also the profession that warns about certain parts of the new solutions and, if you agree with these warnings, you can also think or conclude differently in the process of adopting the constitutional law, as you thought when you signed the draft law. It is also true that this debate in Parliament and, above all, in the Constitutional Commission has contributed to the fact that immunity is not being granted in this Assembly and that, in this area, the National Assembly in this mandate can be said to work in a manner that is exemplary. And if we have succeeded in this debate within the Constitutional Commission and within the National Assembly in ensuring that things have actually moved towards better, it is already a big step towards understanding what it means to act as Members and Members of Parliament and what it means to invoke immunity. But it is also true what has already been said today. The question is whether we can reach agreement on this constitutional law, and I am convinced that we will not reach this agreement to amend these articles in this mandate. I also have concerns about this amendment when we talk about it or proposers talk about a deliberate intervention in the right to personal dignity. I'm not a lawyer, and probably lawyers would be able to explain it, but this is planned, unplanned, I think that there is a very thin or vague separation and that this would cause problems. I myself supported on the Constitutional Commission the proposal of the LDS Club, which speaks of criminal and indemnity liability, excluding the actions referred to in Article 63 of the Constitution, and also speaks of the Member being responsible, despite this provision, for the regrets, slanders and insulting accusations he has made in the performance of his mission. I think that this would be an ideal solution in the Constitution, but unfortunately, as we have already heard in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary groups, there is no need for support. And if we have also listened closely to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, I repeat my conclusion that there is very little possibility of amending the Constitution and amending these articles on immunity in this mandate. In doing so, I also allow myself to think in the direction that even those who proposed that immunity be completely removed from the Constitution probably did not take this completely seriously or were not counting on it to be adopted in the National Assembly. For this was a second extreme. Moreover, when we talk about immunity, about parliamentary immunity, we need to think first of all about the essence of this immunity. About why immunity is granted. It is a smooth work of acting as a Member and, of course, of the National Assembly. This is essential why immunity should be granted to Members of Parliament. Not to avoid the responsibilities imposed on Members and Members by the law, as well as all other citizens and citizens, but to ensure that this house, that this Parliament, the institution, can operate smoothly. So I have no great hope that these changes will receive the necessary support, as I said, and the efforts that have been put into the debate, the preparation of the material, the debate on the Constitutional Commission have certainly not been in vain.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Since some of the Members have checked out and some have not, Mr Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the current regulation in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, perhaps the first paragraph is written interestingly and appropriately: "The Ambassador of the National Assembly is not criminally responsible for the opinions or vote he gave at the meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies." Sounds like a nice thing to do, and, say, acceptable. While we say in the second sentence, "The Member shall not be detained, nor shall he be detained, if he refers to immunity, for criminal proceedings shall not be initiated without the permission of the National Assembly." We've had our problems from here on out. The problem is that we did not treat everyone the same way or that it was misused. At the same time, we provided immunity for certain stories, such as traffic accidents or counterfeiting of signatures, and on the other hand, we did not provide immunity for some of the more serious offences if someone agreed in a timely manner, lobbied, and provided an appropriate number of votes that did or did not happen. These abuses were in the National Assembly and, as we have seen, what colleagues have also mentioned is even more so in the State Council. And that's why I've been among those people all along to get this thing sorted out differently, but in the meantime, we've been experiencing stories that were often mere tactics. On the one hand, we had the text so that Members could do anything, what is also the subject of the debate and what some would like and I will never support the solution so that Members could do anything and anywhere. And it is always closer to the text, which is here in Article 83, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, of course, if it were not for a further determination that would overwhelm all of this. And the tactics were this way, if you don't want to do anything, anywhere, nothing. At the same time, the same people who proposed a very broad solution suggested no immunity. And that's very popular in public. If we went to a referendum, as we once did with the electoral system or with a Member's resignation, most citizens would vote here that these Members, where most are corrupt, should be deprived of any immunity and should not do anything other than other citizens. This tactic may be very attractive, but on the other hand it is very dangerous, because then I am really here where colleague Barovic warned. And I see no reason to limit ourselves to not deliberately interfering with the rights to personal dignity or to a good name and the honor of another person. Are we, indeed, Northern bears with special protection so that we may interfere, and this willfully, with the right to personal dignity or good name and honor of another person. How can we take the right to something like this and not understand that there is no consensus reached to limit this right in such a way that we do not abuse the Constitution and Article 83. And if we go here to ask the citizens, the people who hope, whether you're up for it, let's see the result in this case, of course, if we would explain things to the people the right way. But here possible manipulations in various ways, as we have seen in various ways in the past, have abused the definition of the current text of the Constitution. And, of course, I will loudly confirm the statement that the solutions that will not contain this solution, which we propose through this amendment by the LDS Group of Members, will not, of course, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much. If this is about convincing and clarifying, between us Members and Members, then it would be best if I sat down and said nothing more, because I think we have really explained everything and that everyone knows exactly what we are. For the first time, where are the basic problems, what is advocated, and I have dared to say that if we were honest with each other, we also know why someone is defending something. However, as it is also a matter of public opinion, I would like to reiterate that it would be good for the National Assembly to limit itself in the exercise of immunity to the necessary extent of the exercise of the political views, legislative functions and the role it has. This is said to be the work of the Parliamentary, particularly in this National Assembly, but not only in this National Assembly, because, of course, the Member is also acting in different circumstances in the function of a Member, and that this should be limited mainly to criminal liability, compensation in cases that have been mentioned so far in my opinion do not provide or advocate solutions, because they are related to other judicial solutions that have been really stupid and require an increase in the sentence of a colleague to the former Member for things that he has done at least half as an obligation under the judicial decision. Only this could be resolved by amending legislation governing enforcement, not by being liable or not. Therefore, I think that in principle, the liability of compensation for inappropriately expressing opinion towards citizens and citizens, not to fellow Members, is to be left alone, I think that we have agreed between ourselves that it is not nice, but that we have also accepted by taking over the parliamentary function the possibility of any unkind words to each other, which sometimes exceeds the measure, and here, indeed, the President or the President may warn that we are going over and that the matter is closed. The biggest problem is, or the only problem is with citizens and citizens who are not present who cannot defend themselves, given that we have public transfers, many times later intervention after five minutes or two minutes of the President, it would mean a lot and here, I agree, some warning adopted in law or in the Constitution that such behaviour may be punishable or may be punishable, in some extreme cases that I hope will not use it as much as possible or at all, as a threat to me, or as a warning to Members and Members that we do not use it. And in the end, what I was saying was what I was saying. I think that the debate on this has opened up many questions and things between me and I sincerely hope not only because we were among those we started in our parliamentary group, but also in the light of the results it has given, that even if we fail to reopen discussions on further modifications to the solutions today, it will be done with its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this debate, I would like to explain why I personally believe that part of this regime, however, must also be enshrined in the Constitution, should be limited to the constitutional level. And why isn't just an order in the Rules of Procedure enough? Because we have paragraph 83 written in this way, and I also think it is right that we have it written down in such a way that it is a matter of acting as a Member and a Member, not just here at this meeting, not just in this Chamber. Even if we had guessed, which is not what this moment is so that those who hold the meeting would have consistently stopped speaking that goes beyond meaningful limits. Of course, there is no one who can stop it on TV, at a rally in Tržič and so on. That is why we need this option written down in such a way that when someone really decides to systematically act in contravention of what is expected and systematically insults and harms the good name of the company, the good name of the person, the citizen, the citizen, so that it can respond to it, especially because we do not renounce our right to respond when a citizen or a citizen treats us that way. So it seems to me that it would be more than useful to reach this agreement and not just talk about extreme solutions, whether everything is allowed, or whether we have no immunity. I don't know, democracy consists of those intermediate elements most often, not extreme ones, so I am also pledging here, but in some ways I expect that we will be able to deal with those who have been more involved in this in our parliamentary groups, first with ourselves, but otherwise in our parliamentary groups, to agree to leave the door open, but I agree with my colleague I run if we have already decided in advance that there is no way to reach an agreement then and we are not going to go any further in this quarter of a step from that point that we have already reached on the Constitutional Commission, then this is not particularly meaningful. But let us leave the door open to arrange one part of this with the Rules of Procedure, while the other part has to regulate the Constitution, otherwise we need to start talking about whether this applies only to this Chamber. We probably don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. It is a very interesting debate today, especially if we compare it, because this has already been some calls for this, with what has been made in the past during the talks, because in those discussions, also by some of those who have been completely opposed here today, it has been very clear that the only real basis that allows 2/3 of the majority to change the Constitution is actually the original text of the constitutional law, as it was prepared in the form of a compromise and that it is only on this basis that it makes sense then to continue to talk. And the other is solutions that are possible. I think they'd be very smart, too, but it didn't work out for them because it was all over again when we got to the point where, let's say, we could start looking for a solution in the direction of changing the Rules of Procedure, no, no, this needs to be regulated first in the Constitution and then the matter went back to the point of origin. In fact, the core of this debate is only two. Relationship, credibility, first time. The credibility of their own words, their own signatures, of all those who participated in the compromise. We made a 100% deal. And a second time. The question of attitude towards the institution of Parliament, to the institution of the National Assembly, for which the reputation and respect would, in my opinion, be solid [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] everyone had to do everything in our power together. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate on the report of the Constitutional Commission. I am opening a debate on the draft position on the draft constitutional law proposed by the LDS Group. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would say once again, we have a position before us that would bring the matter there to study again and beyond, to study. This is not a text that should be incorporated into the constitutional law or beyond, but that they should try again to see whether it is possible to arrange matters differently than they are now written in terms of the intentional interference with the right to personal dignity or the good name and honor of another person. And this is unlike what colleagues may be right, I don't know, but with New Slovenia, when they say, we are so far away that it makes no sense to negotiate in the future and it is best to finish the matter. Here I still see an open opportunity to judge, study, look at ourselves and see if this solution is possible to incorporate it. I'll say one more thing. We had a case when a colleague bragged: "The 9 times they accused me, and I was always forgiven. We have power, we can do anything, and you watch what you're doing." This is not a solution for the rule of law. This is very dangerous. It's that extreme that you would be without all immunity. What is now being written is something that is not good, which can be misused, and what we have in our position is to study and consider or perhaps not to study again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would only add, as already discussed by my colleague Juban, the fact that we, after a debate on the Constitutional Commission, even after professional warnings, narrowed down our proposal, stressed that this immunity would not apply only to cases where it was found that someone was planned, this means more than once, and with a view to interfering with the integrity of citizens and citizens. With a view to having this debate held there, we have also asked the Institute of Law to draw up a text that would be narrow enough to be written down, so that we can do this debate, put this position in place and ask for support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. Then, on this position of the LDS Group of Members, I am opening a debate on the proposal for a position of the SNS Group of Members. Anybody want a word? I don't think so. I therefore conclude the debate on the proposal of these two views on the draft Constitutional Law. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposals for positions today, in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. The agenda item is on the draft constitutional law proposal to initiate the procedure for the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia to the Constitution. The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 129 of the Constitution was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the text to the representative of the proposer for further explanation of the proposal. Here you are, Dr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! Let me briefly present to you the outline of the proposed amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose of the election of judges for a certain period, proposed by this amendment to the Constitution, is solely to ensure that the right to a trial is guaranteed by the Constitution without undue delay. The reasons for the preparation of the constitutional law submitted are the judicial backlog and the related warnings regarding the payment of compensation for these arrears. As we already know, in 1994 to 1996, more than ten years ago, when the number of outstanding cases was resolved, with 240,000 cases, which, according to the annual crash, would have been normal and would have resulted in the resolution of disputes in the courts, raised to 600,000 cases. With the fact that in those years the fate of the case has even decreased and at a time when we could reduce the judicial backlog, we have increased them enormously in this country 10 years ago. The existing constitutional and legal system provides for a permanent judicial mandate, one of the fundamental elements of the judiciary in independence and the principle of independence is based on Article 125 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the principle of the independence of judges is not only relevant to the position of judges, but also relates to article 23 of the Constitution, which states, or I will say, even so, that the court must give everyone the right to turn to it without undue delay when it comes to his rights and duties and charges against him. It is the constitutional right of the so-called positive status, since it is the duty of the State to organise the judiciary in such a way as to ensure the effective realization of this right, as well as Article 6 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms provides that everyone has the right to decide on any case on the basis of fair and public hearing within a reasonable period of time. The right to a trial without undue delay is part of the right to judicial protection. Its aim is to ensure the effectiveness of judicial protection. Too late can ruin its effects. It should be borne in mind that there are currently some 150,000 cases in the proceedings before a court in the Republic of Slovenia in respect of which a violation of the right to a trial may be enforced without undue delay or a trial within a reasonable period of time, or if I say so in a language which is understandable to all, due to a slow trial. In order to ensure the right to a trial without undue delay and effective protection, it is also necessary to explain the corresponding number of judicial posts in relation to the planned abolition of judicial backlogs. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a joint project to remedy the judicial backlogs, abolishing Lukend, which foresees a series of measures that provide more effective work for the courts. In order to achieve this objective, it is also necessary to provide additional employment for judges in the period until the end of 2010. This could be most rationally achieved by amending the Constitution, as the current Constitution does not allow the employment of judges for a certain period of time. These are the solutions that many European countries, as well as the Member States of the European Union, know, where the judge for a certain period of time or the temporary judge is a constant judge in the employment of judges. The proposed amendment would allow the appointment of judges for a certain period of time, but of course only with a view to ensuring the right to a trial without undue delay. The amendment, of course, preserves the basic principle of a permanent judicial mandate. The amendment is without prejudice to the independence of the judiciary, since the duration of the judicial function is not linked, for example, to the institute of the probationary judge. Further protection of the principle of the independence of such a judge is envisaged, since a judge who would have been elected as temporary for a period of five years would then have an advantage in the event of a candidate for a vacant seat within three years of the expiry of his term of office in the selection between candidates, but only against those who have not yet served as judges. The proposal also maintains the fundamental principle that judges with a limited mandate shall also be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Justice. However, it simplifies the procedure for a possible re-election of a judge who has already been elected for a term of five years, which has expired and wishes to run for Judge with a permanent term. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] In such a case, such a judge no longer comes to the election at the National Assembly, but the National Assembly has already recognized him as a judge. [[...]] [[?]] and elected him. For this place he is then appointed directly by the Council of Justice. It is further envisaged that the law will also provide for the right of a judge after the time for which he has been elected, and that the legislator would, after the expiry of the judge's term of office, grant him the right to pay, following the example of the Law on Members or following the example of a judge on the Constitutional Court. Judges who would have been elected for a period of five years would have been assigned to the courts having the most judicial backlog. These are mainly courts in the largest urban areas in Slovenia. They also concentrate on judicial backlogs. This does not change the system of assigning cases to individual judges in any way. These judges would be assigned the same cases as those of permanent judges. By fully respecting the principle of a legal or natural judge in this case. Finally, let me say once again that a comparatively legal institute is not a specialty, as judges are known for a certain period of time in many other countries. Let me mention only France, Great Britain, Spain and Scandinavia, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Belgium. I have listed only a few countries where such opportunities are very often used. Finally, judges for international courts are appointed only for a limited period of time. We know all that. You've already elected them in the National Assembly. This is the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. The proposal to initiate the constitutional amendment procedure was treated by the Constitutional Commission as the working body of the Council, which has reported in writing and therefore we do not have a special presentation. The following is a presentation of the views of the members of the groups on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 129 of the Constitution. The first is Mr Barovic, who will present the position of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, ministerial team! What to say at today’s point or not to say. I'll start with that. Judicial backlogs have been the content we've been talking about for many years. We had Hercules with extra funds. I'm afraid Hercules didn't move that mountain. We've got Lucando. Lukenda was hungry. He ate the taxpayer's money and the mountain is still standing. And with all due respect for the rule of law, colleagues and colleagues, to give the Constitution a right, a particular feature, i.e. to appoint judges for a certain period of 5 years solely in order to ensure, by the Constitution, that the right to trial is guaranteed, but it seems to me that it is not only from the legislative branch of power, but rather from mocking citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular for this reason, give the Constitution the right to a trial without undue delay. Due to unnecessary delay, we had Hercules, we had Lucando, and now we are giving another right to someone else, otherwise they say we give it to citizens and citizens, guaranteed the right to a trial without undue delay. I believe that the first judicial branch of power, the distinguished Minister, is aware of what it means to put such a thing in the constitution. And what if we write in the constitution what it says here and we still have a mountain that has not moved by Hercules, which with everything he has eaten, not even Lukenda will, and which is also this constitutional change will not move. It's gonna be a big backlog, 150 billion tolls due to backlogs, 155 thousand open cases and more. Ladies and gentlemen! No country, a democratic state, has been able to resolve certain content, which, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, is capable of causing a wound, a permanent mandate they have, and therefore no country has been able to change the Constitution. And every country that's due to judicial backlogs, but I don't think it's changed the Constitution, wherever we go, please. You know, let's be honest with ourselves. How nice it would be if all of us who are now present here, thank God there's at least one of us, and we ask others who aren't. I believe there are a lot of them in their offices where they work, study, and listen to us. I believe, I believe. If we had a permanent term, gentlemen and ladies, it wouldn't be nice. Even now, let us be very frank, we are already in some matters, but some more, some less, stepmotherly toward our relationship to work. I admit to myself that sometimes I miss a lot. But it is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, to resolve content by changing the constitution. No offense. Maybe we'd still land on the track, not Hercules, not Lukenda, but another one. Maybe. Maybe. However, it is not possible to provide by the Constitution a 5-year term of appointment of judges so that, after a third attempt, these judges can reduce the judicial backlog. No offense, nice or ugly, I'm telling you politically, it's not working. And the guilt is on the permanent term of judges, who, when they receive it, do as they do. They say they're completely independent. This may be true, but this independence does not, of course, give them the right not to solve judicial backlogs as they should. Nice or ugly. Finally, one day you will realize that the Slovenian National Party has a permanent mandate, okay. If we're gonna be ourselves once in a while, we're being monitored every four years for how we work, and it's not that salary every month of our salary. Our salary is the one the voters give us every four years. And once we have achieved that the judicial branch of power, with all due respect for the effort and work of many of them, will be paid in such a way that after six or eight years it will be evaluated or done well or not doing well, then the results will be achieved. However, that we now, in addition to a permanent term of office, will legislate and enshrine constitutional rights for the judges, I do not know where else to go. I don't know. I really don't know. Because once again, when this right is enshrined in the Constitution, it is pure absoluteism and can do what the judiciary wants, I say again, with all due respect for all those who do it honestly, openly and conscientiously, but not all do it because they have a permanent mandate and they can do what they want and are untouchable, we are fighting for the immunity of a Member in the good four years or we can say a lie or must say a lie, and in other cases we have a permanent mandate, a judicial backlog, a bunch of papers in different cabinets that are found or not, but we now want to entourage the judges into the Constitution, another special category. We are all convinced and believe in our beautiful Republic of Slovenia, we all believe that the State of the Republic of Slovenia is a legal state, but that we want to add another segment to the Constitution, and forgive, exceed that limit, and I think we are becoming a slowly illegal country. In the Slovenian National Party, once again, we warn everyone, including those workers who are employed by the employment contract, suffer, wait for the success of the company, do not know what their destiny will be. Members shall receive payment after four years with their work or work and shall also be in the executive branch of the Authority and shall also be in the judicial branch of the Authority. We are still saying that the solution, the only solution, is in the end or in the test, i.e. in the end of the permanent term of office of the judicial branch or in the test at a certain time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. A piano on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u36	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. While we support the Ministry of Justice's best efforts in our parliamentary group to remedy the judicial backlogs that undoubtedly represent the highest black point of Slovenian justice, we are skeptical about the proposed method, namely the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the resolution of judicial backlogs. The proposed amendment provides for the modification of Article 129 of the Constitution, which otherwise governs a permanent judicial mandate with a view to exercising and protecting the right of everyone to decide independently, impartially and by law, on his rights and duties and on charges against him without undue delay. It is proposed that judges may be elected for a limited period of 5 years to ensure the right to a trial without undue delay. Where a judge elected for a period of five years is eligible for a vacant seat within three years of the expiry of the period for which he has been elected, it is proposed that among candidates who do not yet perform judicial functions shall have priority in the choice. In the event that the Council of Justice elects such a candidate, it shall appoint him directly to the seat of the Court of Justice. In our Group of Members, we have carefully examined the proposal and reached the following conclusions. First of all, let me mention that we do not doubt the Minister's sincerity that the proposal is only intended to reduce the large number of pending cases in Slovenian courts, despite some indications in terms of the supervision of the executive branch of the judiciary. Secondly, in our view, the most important question is whether, in order to ensure the right to a trial without undue delay, it is necessary to intervene in constitutional matter as proposed. In our belief, the strength and stability of the Constitution are reasons for the relative change of our Constitution. Amendments to the Constitution shall be permissible only exceptionally, if they are necessary and unavoidable due to the inherently outdated constitutional provisions. Members of our Group are of the opinion that the proposed amendment is not based on such a basis, and we believe that it would be more appropriate to address the issue of judicial backlogs with other instruments than merely by interfering with the highest legal act. We further believe that the admission of two types of judges, permanent judges and temporary judges is neither appropriate nor legally acceptable. We believe that all too open questions and inconsistencies remain, in particular with regard to mutual equality in relation to the independence of temporary judges with regard to the allocation and resolution of individual cases, as well as with regard to the award of judges. In doing so, let us recall that a permanent judicial mandate is undoubtedly a very important democratic acquisition, which means that a judicial function cannot be terminated solely on the basis of a unilateral decision by the executive or legislative authority. The question of fairness is also raised in the event of the absolute advantage of the candidate for a judicial seat, as the proposal provides that the interim judge has the advantage of choosing if he can run for a vacant seat within three years of the time for which he has been elected as a temporary judge. The proposal also provides that the selection of such a candidate shall be made by a judicial council, which shall also be directly appointed to the seat of the Court of Justice. In this regard, we note that such an approach by the applicant would be inappropriate, since the power to appoint a judge to a permanent judicial function would be solely in the hands of the lawyers who make up the judicial council, not in the hands of the legislative body, i.e. the National Assembly, which is otherwise responsible for the election of judges with a permanent mandate. With the solutions offered by the proposal under consideration to amend the Constitution, it would be possible, however, to achieve, in our assessment, the objectives and objectives set out in the proposal correctly, a reduction in judicial backlog and the exercise of the right to a trial without undue delay, but we doubt that such an approach to resolving this issue is appropriate. We believe that it would be more appropriate to increase the number of judges with a permanent term of office who would occupy the vacancies created primarily by the retirement and departure of judges from other services. In addition, we believe that better organisation of the judiciary would make a significant contribution to the abolition of judicial backlogs, especially the additional employment of a large number of judicial staff to relieve the judges of non-judicial, administrative tasks in the trial. Accordingly, and on the basis of the Lukend project, the Ministry has already drawn up a plan to hire additional judges for an indefinite period of time, both in 2007, 90 judicial posts, and an estimated 500 persons, judicial assistants and other experts, of which at least 200 persons for a certain period of time in 2007, for the duration of the project for the abolition of judicial arrears. Our Group estimates that, if these jobs are to be achieved, the backlogs can be rectified at an appropriate time without a change in the Constitution. However, if the need for additional judges were later demonstrated, they could be carried out in accordance with the procedures provided for the appointment of permanent judges. Members of our Group defend the position that the intervention in constitutional matter as proposed is neither necessary nor appropriate, so our group does not support the proposed constitutional change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Grims on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. In addition to New Slovenia, the SDS Group was in fact the only one who unitedly supported the proposed constitutional amendment at the Constitutional Commission meeting when it decided on this proposal. The reason for this, of course, is obvious. Slovenia is facing huge judicial backlogs and these judicial backlogs are already being paid dearly, even literally. It is no longer just a matter of respect, nor is it just a question of the actual accessibility of some constitutionally protected goods, such as the right to judicial protection - and of course I note that this is extremely valuable - but it is now a matter of full material resources. For we are paying additional damages, very large, to people who have been victims of trials that have been brought to time and their rights, now as members of the country or as citizens of a country that is a member of the European Union, in European courts. But what is a problem that, in our firm conviction today, is actually causing us to make decisions in this way - because, as we all know, the votes for the change at the Constitutional Commission's meeting are severely lacking - are the circumstances that have led to such a decision. It is clear that something should be done in the area of justice. In fact, in the words here, everyone agrees, but when words should follow actions, the differences are very great. Some then, in one way or another, get into some procedural problem and, of course, for issues of procedural complications, usually hide the deepest substantive issues. So all you have to do is say a few words about what the problem is. Why is there, in fact, a solution to the problem that everyone recognises, which everyone is aware of, and which, as it is said, undermines the reputation of the State of Slovenia both at home and in particular abroad, and, as it is said, which is why we are all now suffering greater material consequences. We are paying compensation that we are not talking about the prices of the endlessly long procedures at the moment. One explanation, which relates to this very moment in the country and is in fact applicable to all constitutional changes, is very simple. We're witnessing a certain kind of harassment, change, transformation, if you want, on the transition left. Because of the media that directed these people who are actors in this story, they are now proving to each other who is more legitimate. Therefore, it is no longer possible to have a reasonable debate, so it does not stick to a given word, so it is almost impossible to negotiate in matters that require a two-thirds majority; because it is based solely on the value criteria, the competition of left-wingers between each other and then it follows the principle: when the trumpet blows, all reason is in the trumpet. That's old wisdom. But this proposal, which is before us today, I firmly believe that in some other time environment, I would fly away smoothly so as not to get a two-thirds majority in a constituency such as Slovenia, given the composition of the political spectrum that is represented in it. The reason for this is simple; the question is what is the whole situation in the Slovenian judiciary. And here again we have to eliminate one illusion that the judiciary is something completely untouchable and that it is only an expert legal matter. You know, for the first time, there's a balance in the branch of power that every branch is also under the control of another branch, one way or another. Most consistently, I say that even the most effective, is being done by Americans. Much of this is also in the Slovenian Constitution, the question is only whether we are ready to read it in full. But even if we leave this aside for a moment, it is necessary, as it were said, to break another illusion; that there is no judicial policy. There is a judicial policy, and there is one! This was best said by the President of the German Constitutional Court, who was already in his second post, during a visit to this National Assembly. It was a few years ago. When he said what a court policy was. He cited the case, and that was when the exchange took place between the longtime chancellor Kohl and the sociodemocrats, who had just taken power. He said, "Look, the border cases are always in the courts, and in those border cases, the German courts will judge differently by the day the takeover takes place or takeover takes place. From the day of this change forward and from the day of the change of power they will judge again differently. There's not enough of these borderline cases, but they're borderline cases. And that this difference will come, and that is judicial policy." You will find these exact words in the magnetograms of his visit, they were given in a large lobby there, and also on radio and television Slovenia. I am so sure that the general public knows this word, but it is only necessary to remember them. And once we face the fact that there is a judicial policy, which, by the way, is also recognised by the most prominent Slovenian constitutional lawyers. In particular, in yesterday's Maga number, Dr Jerovšek made it very clear that the most violent decision on deleted Constitutional Court followed the political moment, the political will of that majority. That's what I think is clear enough about how these things are. But as we say, once we accept it as a fact, we can look beyond the story. And why, on the one hand, is it so extremely negative that every proposal to intervene in any way in this area begins to cry out about the profession, etc. You know, there's usually the hardest policy behind the profession today. Let us look at one example that is very interesting, and it just relates to the previous point. At this point, there is a lawsuit against one of the MPs of the National Assembly. He is accused of a statement concerning the period of independence of Slovenia. In particular, one of the points I could read is that he said it was absurd that those who once defended Slovenia at the time of its independence must now defend themselves against those who were aggressors. That's about what was said. You'll say, yes, how could this be the subject of a lawsuit? Yes, in the Slovenian courts this can obviously be the subject of an action, as this proceedings are ongoing. It's a little unusual, isn't it? But I certainly would not want to be in the shoes of this Member, and that is not. You know, because those courts will be the ones that are - I will quote a judgment of the Cell Court after a few years ago - have ruled that JLA was not the enemy army of Slovenia until October 1991. Good. Then I am very interested in who the hell attacked us then, and why we had to defend ourselves with weapons. Maybe hunting society or God knows something. Certainly, if someone can write such nonsense, because it is stupidity, judgment, and then he can still refer to the immunity that the judicial branch of power has and has it for everything that the college says within the framework of the judgment, within the context of the issuance of a lawsuit, then it can be a very big problem. And there's more to it than that. Even more obvious is one other judicial policy - you know, but there are several complaints, not just one, where there may be some unfortunate formulation written down to someone - where, for example, it is said that in the past period, no one can speak to anyone now or in any public word about what this person was, even if we can argue that, even if it is a fact. That is to say, we are forbidden in court decisions to tell the truth in this country about some determined period of these certain people, which is already quite strange. This is literally a legally institutionalised political central thought or red thread that has been drawn since independence on the entire transition left. God does not let us look back at anything, but we must look forward, and we must put it all behind us. Fellows, we forgive back, of course, but we must not forget, for any society that has had a negative experience, if it forgets everything about back, if it can't be said about those things or clearly any more publicly, who was there, what role he played, that society is doomed to repeat mistakes. But this is a historical experience that exists throughout the world. If this follows from the rooms of the Slovenian court, then something with this judicial policy is very wrong because it has a very clear ideological background. And once we know it, it's also clear why so much of a negative charge is then the moment when even with the most innocent intervention you're trying to only allow for the consistent correct realization of some constitutionally guaranteed good, as in this case the right to judicial protection. I think that says a lot about the situation in our country, which also brings a very interesting message to all citizens and citizens if we look at it from this side. For our citizens and citizens are very inclined to say that there must be a balance; only, of course, as they perceive it at a given moment. But if there is a balance between the branches of government and once it is very clear that it is still a practical 100% value control of the judicial branch of power by the transitional left, then it is clear that all other branches of government can be controlled by a political environment or a right centre, if you want, will still be a balance between the different values of views in the country. For this judicial branch of power will not be able to change an entire generation. So much time that all those who once learned will literally be replaced if I quote from memory another textbook of the Faculty of Law, Dr. Ljub Bavcon, who wrote that the right method or criminal law is that the means by which a minority exercises power - even a little longer quote and is purely accurate can be found in the library, it is very interesting to read it. This is also very interesting in view of the debate that is still ahead of us today. We will certainly continue to support in the SDS the change of constitution in this area. Now, of course, there is no other way to conclude this process, for for any action, as long as such a power ratio is clearly running out of votes and there is no point in continuing these procedures in such a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Lovtišar Bebler, on behalf of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected assembly, a respected minister with fellow workers. Therefore, in the LDS, we do not believe that the Constitution needs to be amended in order to achieve the objectives pursued by the proposed amendment to the Constitution. Most of these objectives can be achieved by amending existing sectoral legislation and by better organisation or organisation of work in the courts. In our opinion, the permanent judicial mandate has nothing to do with judicial backlogs, so we do not agree that a constitutional change should be made in order to abolish judicial backlogs and thus facilitate the employment of temporary judges. The proposal for a temporary term would jeopardise the independence of the judiciary. It is an intervention in a permanent judicial mandate and a departure from the independence of the judiciary. On the proposal of the Minister, judges would be divided into those appointed by the National Assembly and appointed by the Council of Justice. This is another step towards reducing the role of parliamentary democracy. Such a solution is not acceptable, even because, after the five years of the provisional term, every time in the Assembly of Judges would elect judges according to their past decisions. Moreover, it is entirely illogical for judges who do the same work to be appointed by different procedures. We warn that the Constitutions always apply to all other legal acts, only this time it is the other way around. This time, the Constitution is supposed to adapt to daily needs in order to deal with current pressures. The legal profession also gave a negative opinion on the proposal. In particular, it opposed having two types of judges, permanent with a permanent mandate and temporary for a limited period of time, which would in fact be contrary to the Constitution. By changing the permanent term of office to a limited term of office, it would not be possible to remedy the judicial backlogs, if so many others believe otherwise. The proposal is also opposed by the members of the Slovenian Judicial Society, who unanimously supported the position of the Management Board of the Society that the proposed amendments to the Constitution in the section on the judiciary are inappropriate and will not contribute to the consolidation of the system of State authorities and not to the abolition of judicial backlogs. Due to the dual regime of the duration of the judicial function and the dual regime of entry into a permanent judicial mandate, the proposed constitutional changes would weaken the independence and independence of the judiciary. So the Slovenian Judicial Society. However, experts believe that this is a completely unacceptable and unacceptable proposal and suggest to the Minister that the National Assembly would prefer to appoint a judge with a permanent term of office more if necessary, or that senior judges help the district and county councils and so on. Most of all, they would have done the most to remedy the judicial backlog if they had allowed additional judicial staff to be employed. Not to mention the insufficient technical equipment of the courts, the lack of court hearings, inadequate information and so on; for which we should also allocate additional resources in the state budget. The appropriateness of the regulation of individual institutes in fair and criminal proceedings is also a particular issue. Since it is not possible to resolve the temporary situation by amending the Constitution, it would be necessary to provide firstly for appropriate procedural legislation, appropriate working conditions for judges, as well as a sufficient number of administrative staff and decent judicial salaries, which will also be attractive to the best lawyers, we cannot therefore support the proposal. At the same time, we welcome the efforts made by the Minister of Justice to hire new judges and professional colleagues. The latter shows that the Minister has been very eager to address the issues of judicial backlogs. By adopting a programme to address the issue of judicial backlogs, he also confirmed that the problem of judicial backlogs can be resolved without temporary judges, including by permanent employment of judges, without fear of excessive numbers of judges who would then have a lack of caseload. Let me say this in the end. When we established the new Slovenian Constitution in 1990 and 1991, we considered a permanent judicial mandate to be one of the foundations of democratic state regulation, which we also laid in the context of the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. The permanent judicial mandate is a very important guarantee of the independence of the judiciary, of course also of the independence of the judiciary from politics and from the current political authority. However, the current political authority, with a hand to the heart, has already shown several individual tendencies in this mandate by subjugating the judiciary and judges. Therefore, we believe that it would even be dangerous for democracy in this country to support such a change of constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Potč has the following word on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u42	Mr Justice Minister, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! Judicial backlogs are a major and current problem in Slovenia. While the Minister of Justice assesses and promises that, on the basis of the amendments already adopted, they will be abolished in the next few years, especially the Judicial Service Act and other judicial activities. This is also our expectation, and so far we have unreservedly supported all the proposals proposed by the current government to the National Assembly to achieve this objective. We are convinced that this must be done not only because of the judgments that the European Court of Human Rights has passed on the basis of a slow trial to the detriment of Slovenia, which is why we ourselves have adopted the Law on the Protection of the Right to Judgement without undue delay, but mainly because we agree that only decision-making within a reasonable time can ensure respect for the right to fair justice. The judgment rendered disproportionately late can no longer correct the injustice that has been done. And the government has done a great deal in the last few years in order to judge within a reasonable time, and has given all the attention to this issue. We could say that, at the same time, she has proposed a lot of proposals with what time frame, and for each of them, I believe it is justified to say that it is comparable to solutions in neighbouring countries and that it is aimed at one and the same objective - ensuring greater efficiency of the judiciary. Within the framework of these proposals, according to the Minister of Justice, there is also an amendment to Article 129 of the Constitution, which should allow for the special election of judges for a period of five years in order to ensure the right to a trial without undue delay. The proposal would therefore introduce the appointment of judges for a period of five years in addition to the principle of a permanent judicial mandate for a constitutional purpose, without undue delay. The permanent judicial mandate is the acquisition of a democratic society and one of the prerequisites for the application of the principle of the division of power into legislation, the executive and judicial branch of power, which is the prerequisite for the independence of the judiciary and thus its equality of visas to other branches of government. However, the permanent judicial mandate, as it is maliciously intended to manifest itself, is no silence for the judges ’ misdemeanour. The permanent term of office does not presuppose that judges do not respect their duties. Unemployment is sanctioned by the disciplinary responsibility of the judges, but it cannot be the policy, and it could sometimes be from Members' debates that can assess the quality of judicial decisions, the right, the wrong, our own, the wrong content of judgments. For this reason, every opening of the issue of the abolition of a permanent judicial mandate, which unfortunately also has strong and strong advocates in Slovenian politics, in the constitutional profession and in the interests of the rule of law advocates, has always raised many concerns and even a principled opposition. This is also very well understood by the Government and the Minister of Justice in his proposal, and he also tried to show that he did not wish to abolish the permanent judicial mandate, but that he specifically introduced an additional possibility of appointing judges with a five-year mandate for a specific purpose, and that, even after that time, there was a possibility of their being elected in a permanent judicial mandate, even by a decision of the Council of Justice, not by the National Assembly, to stress that it was not a limited mandate and for two types of judges. Of course, in practice, it would not be as he imagined, but it would only mean two types of judges. Nevertheless, it is appropriate to ask the following questions in the current proposal for amendments to the Constitution. Nevertheless, does the proposed solution not introduce a limited judicial mandate into the system of a permanent judicial mandate, which is one of the foundations of the judge's independence, although it may argue otherwise? And second. Whether, in the light of all the other legal solutions already adopted, a proposal for constitutional change is needed at all, as the Minister of Justice has also assured them that they are already ensuring the speedy resolution of judicial backlogs. And even in the opinion of the Minister of Justice, which he has pointed out several times, it is not a matter of judicial and judicial backlog to blame solely and especially the judges and not the judicial system, but above all it is entirely unobjective today to speak about the fact that the change in the Constitution would in any way resolve the issue of compensations that have been handed down to Slovenia for past actions. In order to remedy the damages, we have adopted the Law on trial without undue delay, and we believe that it will resolve all the issues that have resolved with the actions that we have received so far before the European Court of Human Rights. Let me also say that this time, as is customary in the work of the Constitutional Commission, we have formed an expert group and asked for an opinion on this proposal. At the request of the Constitutional Commission, two professors of law, both former constitutional judges and an expert in the field of justice, have drawn up an opinion which does not support the Government's proposal under the circumstances. The views are that the objectives and objectives of constitutional changes, namely a trial within a reasonable time frame, can also be achieved through other measures to ensure that the duality of the appointment of judges to judges with a limited mandate can raise the issue of equally sound guarantees for their independence and that the enforcement of the duality of judges would also raise many other practical issues of enforcement of the judiciary, the award of judges and other issues that are well settled today. Thus, the views are that it would be necessary to first occupy all the free judicial posts and, if necessary, to systemise new ones and, in the courts, in particular, to employ the necessary number of professional colleagues and judicial assistants to relieve the judges of many unnecessary administrative tasks and to ensure their concentration really on the trial, thus deciding on the issues at issue. These decisions and solutions, which have been partially introduced by the amended Law on Judicial Service, can therefore be expected to have the same effect without prejudice to the sensitive constitutional material of the permanent judicial mandate. Members and Members of the Social Democrats also agree with these opinions of experts, and this is not the only reason why we will not support the proposal to amend Article 129 of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Uhan on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u44	Nicely greeted. The government has proposed an amendment to the Constitution, which would allow for the additional election of temporary judges from the naked fact that the Slovenian judiciary in the given circumstances is unable to provide a trial within a reasonable period of time, to which the European institutions have warned us and us. Slovenia has already received more than 200 European Court of Human Rights rulings, which means more than €700,000 in compensation, and this amount is certainly not yet completed. Although the Novi Slovenije Group is detained until the existing text of the Constitution is infringed, we are convinced that the judicial backlogs, which consequently burden the state budget and thus all Slovenian taxpayers, are sufficient reason for the Government's proposal with the amendment of Article 129 of the Constitution. In this way, the parties could, in particular, reach their rights within a reasonable period of time. The principle of independence is based on Article 125 of the Constitution. Most of the time, we understand the independence of the judges, but it also means the duty of the court to give everyone the right to turn to him without undue delay. Such guarantees are also enshrined in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which provides that the Court is obliged to decide within a reasonable time. All these provisions, however, have been breached by judicial backlogs and lengthy judicial proceedings. The New Slovenia Group believes that, in order to ensure the right to a trial within a reasonable time frame, it is necessary to ensure the possibility of electing temporary judges. Therefore, the New Slovenia Group will support the adoption by the National Assembly of a proposal by the Government to initiate a procedure to amend Article 129 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr Bajc, on behalf of the SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u46	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to initiate the procedure for amending or amending Article 129 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relates to the duration of the judicial mandate. The Constitution provides that the function of a judge is permanent and that the law lays down the age limit and other conditions for election, it also leaves the Constitution to the law to determine the age limit at which the judge retires. The proposed amendments to the Constitution have emerged as one of the ways, one of the possible measures to intervene in reducing judicial backlogs that are becoming the cancer of the wounds of our justice. Under the current regulation, the appointment of a large number of judges for the resolution of current arrears would mean that all of these judges would have a permanent term of office and that the remaining judges would also have a possible settlement of the situation in the court, when they would no longer be due or eliminated. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has certainly proposed amendments to the Constitution in order to allow the appointment of temporary judges or judges with a limited mandate. The draft text, or a proposal for a text addressed by the Constitutional Commission, had two variants, which were similarly regulated by the Institute of the Temporary Judge to ensure the right to a trial without undue delay. The Constitutional Commission has considered the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending Article 129 of the Constitution and has not supported either of the two variants or the proposed variants. There is therefore no broader consensus as to the possible enforcement of temporary judges between Members or between the parliamentary groups at this time. In particular, we must point out that the expert group also points out in its opinion that, due to the current problems with judicial backlogs, it does not show any change in the constitution and the existing way in which judges are appointed, nor does it indicate the length of their term of office. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have had a negative position on the proposal all the time, of course we are aware of the problems of judicial backlog and we are consistently supporting the competent minister in amending the legislation that is trying to introduce new and new measures to address this inherited problem. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is certainly the highest act of the country, which we must not change because of the situation that is currently in place at some point in the history of a country. The adoption of amendments, as proposed, would, in our opinion, present an important precedent for amending the Constitution due to current problems. This could also be the subject of an argument in any future need to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for daily purposes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also believe that there should now be visible effects of legislative changes aimed at reducing judicial backlogs, and as we have been told on the Constitutional Commission, some effects are also visible. In addition to the measures already taken, however, there are certain developments that have helped to regulate this situation or these problems. Allow me to mention that, in so doing, we are drawing attention to the issue of compulsory traineeships in the courts for lawyers wishing to conduct a state examination, and it might be useful to consider increasing the number of such trainees in the courts. Finally, the long waiting lines, which may last for several years, are a worse journey for the Slovenian judiciary. The State should make it possible for young lawyers to have easier access to traineeships in court, and this would certainly allow lawyers and lawyers to decide on possible judicial work even after the training period. Further competition would undoubtedly ensure a higher quality of those who would later want to work in the judiciary than judges with a permanent mandate. So why not choose this option, or at least try to consider this option? Surely there are many similar reserves that I would not now discuss because they are not the subject of the agenda. For all these reasons and, of course, because, in our opinion, we will not and cannot support the support of the professional public - a proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 129 of the Constitution of Slovenia. We will also support the future competent minister for further proposals that will allow for the reduction of judicial backlogs - I have mentioned one myself. We are aware of the importance of the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time period and of the fact that our citizens and citizens also lose confidence in the rule of law and its institutions because of the situation in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. There is a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend Article 129 of the Constitution. The first one has the word, Mr Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Already at the meeting of the Constitutional Commission, our Group supported this proposal. At the outset, in the previous paragraph, I explained that we are in principle conservative about changing the Constitution, but if it is a matter of substantially improving legal consistency, democracy and improving the protection of fundamental human rights, the New Slovenia Group believes that the Constitution is due to people and not people because of the Constitution, and we think that such a proposal makes sense. We all know that belonging to Slovenia and other courts has been markedly large in the last ten years and that the case is becoming in some way uncontrollable also in higher Estonians, and this also reduces the accuracy of these courts and indirectly reduces the right to a trial within a reasonable time. That is why it seems to us that the Minister's proposal has been put in place and we support it. However, I must also comment on some arguments that do not convince us that have been expressed in the debates both on the Commission and now, namely the role of the Council of Justice. In this way, it increases the autonomy of the judicial branch of the cloud, and by no means any judge without prior confirmation in the National Assembly cannot be a judge, since all the judges first receive confirmation in the National Assembly. Therefore, this remark that the National Assembly is thus excluded is not true. No one can be a judge, I repeat, without the consent of the National Assembly. I am therefore surprised at some who demand that the backlogs be abolished so that they do not support all the measures that are possible. And the Constitution in this case, according to our assessment, is the only way that things could move faster than I mentioned before, and the dream was just last week at one reading, as was colleague Dar Lavtijar Bebler, at the round table or at the round table on the role of the European Court or comparative law on the Council of Europe and on the European Union, where it was found - according to those who are working on it - that the membership in European courts is extremely large. This is also due to a poor part of national courts, as we all know. And I really don't understand why we wouldn't do anything to put an end to these backlogs, which belong to a wider circle of violations of fundamental human rights. And this is a key argument that, as a member of the New Slovenia Group, I support the Minister's proposal and we will obviously be left alone in this proposal, which I am very, very surprised about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Zagorac has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The judicial backlogs in this country are already like a shadow over a barrel of power, they have been drawing, I guess, since the beginning of this country. And by no means has there been any concrete shift in all the attempts we have tried to make in this country so far in reducing these judicial backlogs. The fact that we do not support all the measures that are possible to reduce judicial backlogs is, of course, a little attracted to hair. It's like, you know, if someone had diarrhea for 18 days, they'd be treated with herbs, because he couldn't make a real cut and go to a doctor to say hello to him, he'd be hard to support, but he'd be sent to a doctor on the first day, and he'd be the one who went to school to find out. As for the change in the constitution before us, I must say this: I do not think there is any law in this mandate that we have dealt with on the Internal Policy Committee by the Ministry of Justice, which did not start with the words: "The law is adopted to reduce judicial backlogs." I don't think he's here. But the results are coming slowly, or they're not coming at all. Now the government has decided to reach out to the constitution, but not as a cut, to play with the constitution a little bit, and it will stipulate that we can now hire some new judges here for a period of five years, which will be confirmed by the National Assembly, but after five years the National Assembly will no longer have any interference with them if they want to continue to be judges. I would understand, if these five years were to be limited, their work would be checked, and Members would share the results of their work, and then Members should decide, insofar as we have this interference, to appoint judges, whether a judge has worked well in these five years, whether he has contributed to the fact that the judicial backlogs are smaller or not. And so it seems to me that this is similar to what we adopted in marriage recently, when we even allowed it, in the slogans, "reincarnation of retired judges," in order to reduce the judicial backlog. In the Slovenian National Party, we are still convinced that the main reason, the main reason, is the cut that would have to be made in order to reduce the judicial backlog, the permanent judges have a mandate. This is, in our opinion, the evil or diarrheic that needs to be resolved by a doctor. To say that a permanent mandate is the only means to ensure the apolitical nature of an individual judge in his work seems a little unrealistic to me. It's like comparing the celibacy of a priest or a judge who shouldn't go to the elections - or how to be apolitical. Not one, not the other, not the celibacy, we all know the priests are going somewhere, but the people are in the end. That's how the judges go to the polls. And I'm going to say this, we're going to win election rights at the age of 18, and then at the suggestion of either parents or our minds, we decide which option we're going to support, who we're going to elect, and somehow we're going to become politically or politically active. The fact is, students of law colleges, believe me, become politically active much earlier than students of any other university in this country. Because politics is the subject of their teaching; because we and we are a policy that may not be directly but indirectly dictate what they need to learn. And to talk about the fact that a permanent mandate guarantees apoliticality, I think it's a little too much. I'm sure it's not that guy's permanent term. And we've tried everything, we've spent a lot of money in this country to reduce the backlog, and we failed. It's got to be admitted, we haven't made it through this moment yet, but we're still playing. We're going to change it a little bit, and we're going to reincarnate it, and then we're going to add it there, but it's all going to cost, it's all going to cost money. It's time to make that cut when we send the diarrhea to the doctor to heal her. And as an appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you have so much time until the next election, let us consider that a truly permanent mandate is the cut that would allow for the reduction of judicial backlogs and will no longer just excuse the judge that he is a political one. And lastly, as colleague Barovic said in the opening presentation, God forbid that this should happen. What if Members had a permanent mandate? There are few of us in this room right now. Believe me, if we were to have a permanent term, except for the chairman, I doubt anyone else would be sitting in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, we'll continue our session, regardless of the number of people present. Mr Kontic has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is important that at that time, we are the ones who have been reported for discussion in the Chamber. However, a permanent mandate would be questionable for several reasons, not only because it was mentioned here - I mean, a permanent mandate. I will not support the proposed solution to the constitutional change, nor have I supported the Constitutional Commission's meeting because it does not seem appropriate. I am also convinced of this by the members of the section who have drawn up their opinions and pointed out the weaknesses that can be caused or contained in the proposed proposal for amendments to the Constitution. I think, however, that it is the right way to hire new judges where possible after systemisation; to systematise new jobs and not that these jobs are already limited in the systemisation of time; and to take care of other court-appointed personnel in the courts. So it's not just gonna be a judge enough, it's probably gonna take someone else. So it is important that if I use a few medical terms, a disease with a known diagnosis treat appropriately. It is certainly a disease that will be healed after a while. Therefore, it will take some time for us to find in Slovenia that we do not have any judicial backlogs, which actually start the legal security of citizens and citizens, residents and residents of Slovenia, not to say that we are already under the foundations of the rule of law in our country, so we are often also warned from abroad. And Members also have experience or direct contacts with people who go to our parliamentary offices, and many times people come because the proceedings in court take too long because they have comments and because they want these matters to actually improve. I also agree with the conclusion that in this way we would have two types of judges; one chosen by the National Assembly and one appointed by the Council of Justice if we take away this initial consensus given by the National Assembly on this first choice. And when we talk about the independence of judges and when we say that it is closely linked to the permanent mandate of a judge, that is, that with the permanent mandate of a judge we can ensure the independence of a judge or a judge, that does not mean, of course, that it is not possible under certain conditions, that it also falls under certain laws within this sustainable mandate of a judge. And I wonder how we could eliminate this difference, it is said, between judges with a permanent mandate and judges with this five-year mandate. What does this mean for the independence of the judge, the independence of the courts? Will we, on the one hand, have independent judges with a permanent term of office and other independent judges, who are likely to be independent in the notes, with a five-year term, which will mainly seek to please them by meeting, if necessary, the conditions for them to be appointed by the Council of Justice to serve as a permanent judge? I'm afraid we're going this way and if, say, this change today would not be enough to probably think about any change in the constitution. However, I should be allowed to express my concern or fear that, at some point in the constitution, it might even be written that judges are usually in Slovenia, but, exceptionally, someone else, if the Government so decides. It is not the right procedure, it is not the right procedure, and I propose that the Government with the powers that it also has to provide for the abolition of judicial arrears, but not in the manner proposed today by this amendment. This change, as I said in the introduction, I object.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Barovic to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I'd like to re-emphasize and return to content. We are talking about a novelty that we would introduce, in substance, into the Constitution by Article 129. But one segment of social events in this country does not change or resolve by introducing and changing the Constitution. Once again, it might not be bad with the law, some new law, as my predecessor said, a colleague from the Slovenian National Party. The laws were over 100. They all started with a sentence, "this law is adopted to reduce judicial backlogs". But the account of these laws was inversely proportional, meaning more laws, less judicial backlogs. That's not true. We've reached a point of proportion. There's more laws. There's more than one court case. And secondly, it is unacceptable for this solution to one segment of this company to introduce into a change of constitution. And secondly, once again, respected colleagues and colleagues, I don't know why you don't want to understand. What kind of apoliticality with a permanent term judge or politics if I take politics, what does that mean when the judge judges, I'll put myself on the case, Bogdan Barovic, if he stole the car. What does it have to do with having a permanent mandate to be apolitical or, if he is a representative, I do not know, a judge, being a member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. He's got arguments. He's got proof that I stole the car and he's gonna sue me. And here, politics has nothing to do with it. If I shoot someone, the judge of the SDS or the SDs, if it's proven that I shot someone, he'll judge me. And not us, please once again, nice "futrati" by making the judge, at 33 years of age becoming a judge, 5 times he went to the polls, 6 times, 9 times and was for, I will say, Bogdan Barovic, Slovenian National Party, but at 33 years of age he has overlooked and assured him by becoming a permanent judge that he will never again agree or a member of the Slovenian National Party, but he will be absolutely political. Please don't tell us that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I have previously pointed out some of the quotations that are very current and interesting in the light of these discussions on independence. But since I don't want to do anyone any wrong, now I've got the material, so I'm really going to read the quote so I won't just say something after memory. It is a textbook of the Faculty of Law in 1978 that no one would have thought it was from 1945, which regulates the authentic position of the current criminal law doctrine as follows: "Penal law is first a means of protecting existing social regulation. In this context, criminal law is a means of repression and systematic struggle against a particular part of the population, i.e. to fight against a class which, because of its different viewpoints, opposes the integrity of existing social regulation or its constituent parts." Colleagues, you know, if someone went through a "drill" like this in college, then allow me to express my reasonable doubt that this has no bearing on his judgment when he's considering specific matters. Even more problematic is the fact that this was intended to be compensated by an article in the Law on Courts proposed by Dr. Jože Pučnik, and then by that article to the Constitutional Court, the article stipulated that it should not become a judge of someone who participated in trials where human rights were violated. Although the Constitutional Court has then ruled that, of course, it has determined completely in accordance with the Constitution and has not repealed it, but in practice things have gone their way this time and have never been carried out and, therefore, once again, I say that the debates on the matter of expertise and independence alone do not simply endure serious reflection. This can be true of people who are now coming to a new place. But back then, this is a big, much bigger problem, and so I reasoned, of course, it's obvious why there's so much opposition to anyone going into this system. By the way, when it comes to autonomy, there are other large systems or some other groups that would not be involved now because we will go too far because each story has the same origin. Once things filtered, but today they build on this and because the filter was the same as it was, I think I made it very clear with this quote, then it's only possible to talk about independence really to the current authority, but addiction absolutely, but it could be discussed. By the way, how does the legal and other professions feel when it comes to these processes, because there has been some reference to it, but only as an example with some humor. For example, in some process, one defendant handed this over to me, defending himself by presenting opinions and quoting them, Prof. Dr. Ljub Bavcon and Prof. Dr. Velko Rus, that Udba and Kos were nothing more than a legitimate part of the legitimate political system and that cooperation with them was an honorable obligation and privileges. I must say that very interesting professional positions can be found in this love of Slovenia, but if it is not clear to any of the young citizens and citizens what the Udja were and what the Kos, the counter-intelligence service, and that this was essentially the core of the power of the previous totalitarian regime, such as the secret services always the core of any totalitarianism or, if one or the other color is very good, that young people also refresh their memory from this point of view, because without knowing these things backwards, it is not possible to understand the current state of Slovenia, because this is not the case when everyone says 'bones fall from the Omar', the problem is that we have some 'bones' in this love of Slovenia pushed into the closets and are now holding us out of the door, specifically, the bad situation in the Court, where we have accumulated a huge number of delays, we are currently being pushed into the cause of justice, of justice, of course we are not being judged, of course we are not having a fair enough to defend them. Once again, I prefer not to talk about the costs of endlessly long judicial proceedings in our judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u58	Your Honors are here! I will take the conclusion of the words raised before me by my colleague Zagorac. According to my assessment, he gave a very good illustration or a single message, which unfortunately did not come between Members in this term and not in the previous term. If the legislative and executive power within the Republic of Slovenia had a life-long mandate as we have witnessed within the judicial branch of power, then I do not believe that any of the Members would sit in this Chamber throughout the day, but of course the question is why. Because there would not be a moment that would drive an individual or a group of Members forward. Because there would be no time to try to enforce efficiency and change through your work. And in the National Party, we firmly believe that this moment, unlike the National Assembly, unlike the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, unlike any other service within our country which is bound by a mandate, does not last within the judicial mandate that degree of competitiveness or desire to create and solve the problem because there is no motive. And the service without motive, ladies and gentlemen, according to our assessment, leads to that stagnation, and the stagnation of work has led to judicial backlogs, and when we touch on the issues of judicial backlogs, we see that we are alerted not only to judicial backlogs, but also to what is most important, namely, the Republic of Slovenia, our citizens and citizens, but to warnings from everywhere, we are warned within the framework of the European forensic system expert, Mr Dukova, who gave a comparative analysis of efficiency and through which it is evident that Slovenian judges are on much better terms, I am not saying that they are excellent, as comparable judges within the European Union, are doing worse, working less effectively and not reaching the levels of treatment that their colleagues within the framework of the European Union. Furthermore, we have witnessed here this week, or I personally do not give much weight, but the State Department report. Personally, I believe that a country such as the United States of America, where there are daily real human rights violations within the framework of the death penalty, military intervention, anywhere else, I do not give particular importance to this report because I believe that Americans are exclusively exporting domestic problems because they want to minimize their role of negatism in the world. But then they find countries here in the world where they're told they're violating human rights. But the fact is, there is some truth in this report as well. But as I said at the outset, the most important and important thing we should resolve in this National Assembly is, of course, the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And we can safely say that the greatest dissatisfaction occurs in the field of justice. On a proposal from this Minister of Justice, the National Assembly, at the proposal of the former Minister of Justice, has listened several times, according to my assessment, in most cases to the sections and allocated the judiciary to different levels of government, additional financial resources, burdened them through new investments in real estate where they provide their services. He unloaded them in the form of procedural law. In short, from month to month in the field of justice, the National Assembly adopted additions and amendments to the laws. But there are still no effects of this within our country. But let me come back three years ago. Three years ago, in the National Assembly, the Slovenian National Party proposed a decision, a decision which was considered at the time of the adoption of the Judicial Service Act. The decision was very simple. Have the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare an amendment to the limitation of the permanent judicial mandate and this decision has been adopted in the National Assembly. I say, three years ago, when she was in Slovenia, I don't want to repeat myself with some colleagues, another authority, I won't say worse, just another. That authority did not respect the decision reflected in the form of a decision adopted by the legislative branch of the Authority. Well, at the National Party we never made up the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, we believed that those people who at the time supported the decision to restrict the judicial mandate when they came into the role of the decision-maker, the executive branch, would take this step forward in the field of constitutional change and would therefore intervene radically in the judicial matter within our country. Of course that didn't happen. Later, we see that there have been quite a few attempts. Some attempts clearly pointed to authorship. The authorship that came from the Constitutional Judges themselves, and who wanted to set an example of solving problems, pending cases, belongings, all of this; simply say that the legislator and the author of this parliamentary initiative, I think that Mr Pavliha was Vice-President; that it should be determined that the Constitutional Court has not only the right to an initiative or an application for an opinion, but that it has the so-called autonomous right to decide which cases they will or will not. According to our assessment, all such approaches to resolving the shortages or surpluses of work in their area, i.e. inefficiency, in the sense that they would shield the various instances of the judiciary from people, are incorrigible. Our citizens and citizens do not deserve to be conditioned, but who can turn to the judiciary. This is unacceptable, according to our assessment. And also, according to our assessment, according to the assessment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, it is in order to emphasise that the National Assembly, as legislator and in our constitutional order, also a constitutional founder, is the only one who has the exclusive right to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia within our legal order, can also benefit from this power. It is not enough that from day to day or from meeting to meeting, we change individual laws from the field of justice. To change the funding of individual courts. This has proved to us in the last four years that, of course, it has not led to the result that we all advocate at some declaration level. But the emphasis is a declaration level. At the substantive level, of course, or much too little political will, or much too little courage on the part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which does not hope or does not want, for this reason or for any reason, I will not descend into it, cutting myself into constitutional matter into the provisions of a permanent judicial mandate. Also, the deficit of this courage on the part of all other Members, with the exception of the members of the Slovenian National Party, which we have already defined three times, has been proposed to the National Assembly three times to adopt a constitutional amendment that has met all the business and constitutional requirements for change, but has never been prepared, I will not say courage again, but exclusively political readiness to intervene in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in this area. And if I complete and make a comparison between the performance of individual professions, let them come from the legislative branch of power, and I will give, for example, and I do not want to be offensive and I will not be offensive, our President of the National Assembly has a limited mandate. Each of you has a limited mandate. After this period, he will check his work in the elections if people consider that he has done his job well, which I think he will be rewarded again. We are evaluated by citizens and citizens. If the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, who also has a limited mandate, is doing well, and I believe that this is the motto of his work, he will be rewarded by the next National Assembly with a re-election, but he will meet with a moment, with the people he will have to deposit his accounts to. The same is true in the context of medical service. Doctors don't have an unlimited or life-long mandate, not school principals, not directors, or that I won't keep my professions up. No one in this country who performs the function has these ratings as they have within our country and regret with our thirst and, last but not least, with the thirst of the government judges. At the same time, we're bluffing. Every month, we talk about court deficits. We do not find, or we do not want to find, a response every month to how the judicial branches of power would facilitate their work, in order to be effective so as not to cause judicial backlogs and, consequently, not to bring an action against their own country. For the fact is that all the lawsuits coming from the EU institutions are the result of ineffective judiciary. In fact, no one in our country can deny it and no judges can deny it. But the conditions for their work, ladies and gentlemen, are laid down by the Government and Parliament. So the conditions are those that are bad because they are not, and I will focus on the introductory thoughts because they do not allow a system that requires efficiency, correctness and timeliness. Because there's no balance sheet in our system. In this National Assembly, last but not least, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been addressed to you with the signature of Members and Members of the Slovenian National Party. And whoever among you has dealt with the area of the judiciary in the past, perhaps amateurally and devoted more time to it, has come to the realization that they are following the findings of the so-called "twining" analysis, I think it was at the beginning of this millennium, which, of course, illustrated individual segments of the comparison. You know what's interesting? Interestingly, these segments showed that the Slovenian judiciary is better equipped, more technically equipped, in better spatial matters, with more money, but with worse results than when we take the effect of the work, the solved cases take up not half of the efficiency with the judges of that comparable European region, both by the number of inhabitants and by the square, which was a sample of comparison. And if today, after half of his term of office, when his ministry, I tell you, Mr Minister, met with a proposal for constitutional amendments to restrict the judicial mandate, he is still looking for solutions in a quarter of a solution that we have witnessed to them almost every month, if we look at it, then I must say to myself personally, and I believe that my fellow Members, too, this kind of work of the judiciary does not seem serious. That all of this points to that unreality, let's try a little bit, a little bit, a little bit, it's not an important result. Let only people feel that today, on a proposal from the Government, the National Assembly has complemented the Law on Judicial Service or any other law, but that you are not interested in the result. Nothing has been exposed on many occasions by any minister or any other proposer of an individual law, that if we see that the long-term situation in the existing system does not change despite minor changes, why does it not then reach into a radical change that is no longer so radical today. The fact is, in the field of the limitation of the judicial mandate, we have held professional, lazi debates, debates have taken place in the media, I know that they have taken place within the Ministry of Justice and not least the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But whoever wants to point out in this National Assembly and say to themselves whether it doesn't matter in front of their constituents, I've tried to reduce the judicial backlog, he's going to have to prove it by supporting the limitation of the judicial mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Friend, there's not much time, do you want? He's not here. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. He's quitting. Would you like a minister? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I have followed with interest the entire debate that was under way on the proposal of the Government to amend Article 129 of the Constitution, which is a few of the proposals that I have noted, because they dealt with all of us with a common problem, with the resolution of judicial backlogs and we will certainly be able to take these proposals into account, in particular with regard to traineeships, in amending this legislation this year. These proposals will come to your parliamentary table this year and we will be able to speak of them. At the conclusion of this procedure for amending the Constitution today, it is correct to say that the Government has adopted the proposal last year, in spring, and immediately after the Government's proposal to the National Assembly, I myself have established informal talks with individual parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. After these first informative talks, I realized that it would not be possible to obtain an appropriate two-thirds majority in Parliament, the Ministry of Justice and also the Government, as soon as the first half of last year, to develop other parallel projects, so that we have many of the objectives that we wanted to achieve with this change of constitution, but have already prepared, and also precisely thanks to the fact that you have already adopted the draft budgets for this year and also for the next year, these are now adopted budgets, and these objectives have also been achieved in a materialised form. We have ensured certain employment of judges and also of the judiciary, but it is true that this is a solution compared to the solution that we have proposed by amending the Constitution, a solution that is budgetaryly more burdensome. But that was the will of the National Assembly, and we respected that will. In the debate, some honourable Members also referred to the position of the legal profession on the proposed proposal. The legal profession was a proposal for the introduction of temporary judges, which I can assure you is surprising. It was even more surprising when we provided them with information that temporary judges are a phenomenon that is widely known in Europe, that many justices are used very often. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible]] I'm crossing the European continent of temporary judges. [[...]] When we transmitted this information to the legal profession, the legal profession reacted with surprise. She didn't even know that. Therefore, the reference in this respect to the legal profession, in a given segment, is not convincing, at least it is not convincing for the proposer. In addition, let me say that the arguments offered by the legal profession, the rebuttal arguments, were not professional. They were exactly the same as political arguments. Of course, experts can also argue in a political way, but if they so argue, it is only right that they say so. In this respect, the legal profession has not offered any convincing professional arguments against a solution that is established everywhere in Europe. That is why I firmly believe that in Slovenia we will get temporary judges as well. I am confident that as soon as possible, a composition of the National Assembly will realize that it is a solution that is reasonable and reasonable and will seek such a solution. Perhaps not in the formulation that has now been proposed, but certainly in such or similar content. Speaking of judicial failures, I take the opportunity to say that many of the measures that the Government and the judiciary have only taken to reduce judicial backlogs are already in place. These are measures of a synergistic nature that work in some common relationship. I am sure the effects will also show, but it is also certain that the issue of compensation due to the slow work of the courts remains more pressing than before and will remain pressing throughout this year as well as next year, so both in the government and in the judiciary we are aware that it is necessary to continue to make a very intense effort to ensure faster work of the courts. I am confident that we will achieve the right results in this regard. We already have the first statistics for last year. It is gratifying that the four very important courts, the higher courts in the country today practically no longer have judicial backlogs, they are already operating on a liquid basis, they are doing what the Lukend programme is supposed to do at the end of 2010. In some first-degree courts, of course, the situation is still not satisfactory and because we expect the First-degree Courts to intensify their work this year, and especially in the coming year, it is understandable that the Higher Courts will also be more burdened with this, so that they will have to deal with a greater number of cases. However, the first results that we already have are encouraging, but they must not put anyone to sleep, I repeat, because it will take a lot of intensive and systematic work and joint efforts to resolve this problem, which we have unfortunately accumulated more than 10 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you. All the reported debaters who were present allowed this time have been given the floor, but since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it on the basis of Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure? Check-in is on. Five minutes. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I think that the debate on the proposals was interesting and necessary. Unfortunately, she has revealed a number of things that we face in politics, and I don't think that's good. It revealed that the view of the sustainability of the judicial function is very different in Slovenia, and I do not think, given the proposal that was made, but in politics, that there are many colleagues and colleagues who would think that the relevance or inadequacy of judges, as well as specific judgments, should be assessed through political assessments, and I think that is worrying and right to say. I think and I hope that we will decide today that we will not take this proposal also because of the right conclusion of the Minister's work, which said that in fact other measures can be taken to a good extent, I will not say in full, resolve the issue of judicial failures even without amending the Constitution. I think it is particularly important that many times so far it has been said that it is at least incorrect or that it is not only appropriate to blame judges and, above all, judges for their backlogs, because we know what circumstances and what situations they are in. However, I would like to express my opinion on only one point of view of the Minister, when he was relatively unfriendly to the profession. I am not talking about the fact that the profession is safe and we have already had one discussion two days ago, even more scholastic than indeed, which I did not say is that the profession is omniscient and honest, ministers and only politicians and dishonest. Only the Minister, after his office, is a politician and professional within his framework acting differently than, say, a lawyer or a state attorney. But, I would like to say this, it is not true, I am reading it, but with the Minister we have probably the same material, the mandate of judges in comparative legal systems, because we have received it in the course of this debate from the Minister, that in most or even in almost all European systems we would know judges with a temporary mandate, but above all it is not true that such a simple comparison can be made through constitutional and legal solutions, because something else is, if it is, and here the Minister would be right to point out that in many solutions the sustainability of the mandate is not constitutional and legal matter, it is true, but in some cases it is. And where it is, and once again we have constitutional-legal matter, they don't know any other, or they don't know most of it as a permanent mandate, so that I would only relativize a little bit of this very hard explanation by Mr Minister. I read the material he gave us in a different way, but we can look at it for all our colleagues and colleagues, we got it on 12.1.2007 and it has the title "Mandate of Judges in Comparative Legal Systems". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this debate has been very useful and, on the other hand, Mr Minister himself has explained how the difficulties concerning judicial backlogs or the exercise of a judicial function are being resolved. I myself firmly believe that the so-called permanent mandate is an appropriate solution. However, it is necessary to separate the mandate of a judicial function from the conclusion of a working relationship or from the exercise of a business which could also take place in a way that does not result in the conclusion of a working relationship as a function. Well, since we've never solved it and vaccinated it, we could have done it. They would have nothing to do with these complications, and therefore constitutional changes as such are not disputed, including this permanent mandate. Nothing's disputed, it's so, sorry, I'll take the case, and you'll tell me, it's not the most appropriate license to drive a bus, you get it, you have a D exam, but the question is whether you're doing this or not. You have a permanent term of office, and you have a one-year, four-year working relationship, I don't know if it's for an indefinite period. And in this way it is also understood that constitutional-legal matter, yes, of course, nothing in the Constitution states that this means the conclusion of a working relationship. In fact, the judicial function is the mandate, it is the performance of the function, not the manner in which it is carried out. So that if we understood this, there would be no such complications in Slovenia. And, of course, we also have mechanisms to end the mandate. This could also be if you have been no longer acting as a judge for a long time, if you are not, it could be, or if you have violated those rules in a fundamental or grave way, serious errors, which are defined as a violation of a judge’s mandate or function. In short, some of the solutions in these constitutional changes, in the last part very meaningful, are reasonable, and I think they also achieve a lot of support in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think that this debate will be useful, as both my predecessors have said and discussed the usefulness of today's debate, and only if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia takes into account some comments or any comments, as far as they can be made by all the parliamentary groups that we have given, for example, judicial backlogs. The ways in which the Government has embarked, let me mention just one more regarding the resolution of judicial backlogs, have been called or the strangely called abolition of offenders. We all remember it, then those who did not fall into the abolition were a little sad, but those who were very happy were so, I will say, for people such an interesting event that they did not have to pay a fine, otherwise the budget of the Republic of Slovenia was slightly damaged, but it was "scrupulous" because you did not have to pay if the policeman had received you 14 days earlier or a month earlier without a safety belt, but it also did not help in reducing the judicial backlogs. And I fear or hope that the Government will take these comments into account also because there will be no more suffering in this country, it seems to me that the greatest suffering of the people in this country is if they have to seek their right through a court of law. What's taking so long, people don't have so much time to "make fun," some of them are also on the verge of, I'll say, a financial meltdown, unless something is resolved quickly and that's the real torment in our country. And if you remember, a few years ago, one of those companies that were in a big commission, of course, broke up, which the court was unable to do in 10 years, just one day or overnight. Otherwise, some strange boys, very broad in their shoulders, and tall on the track, came to the door and took what you owed to someone. It seems to me that we have also legalised such work to some extent in line with the reduction of these judicial backlogs. And if I could just touch this, maybe not so happy comparison with the D-category driving test, we could also give B-like, which is closer to us, to us who don't drive buses but only buses and we can't afford to drive a bus during the election. We have limits on the highway, how much we can drive, how we have to drive, which sign we have to follow, what we have to do, bus drivers and truck drivers have even a certain amount of time they can drive, how many kilometers they can transport, judges have these limitations, I think, too badly written and no exam, not B or D, no C, no H is permanent. The exam will be passed if you commit a major offence and I know a few people who have been deprived of such an examination, but I must say that I do not remember a lot of judges who would be deprived of a permanent term. Here the Council of Justice, I will say, very poorly regulates this withdrawal and violation of the rules, observing violations of the rules of individual judges and assessing the effectiveness of their work, which is why such comparisons may be interesting for the National Assembly, but if we think about it, it is not possible to compare. I am still sure that it is a permanent mandate, I will say, not evil, but the burden borne by the judges, not by our own fault, but by our own, because we have given them not to carry out their work as well as they could carry out and by withdrawing this mandate, and this is again our duty, we could reduce and hope and appeal to the Government to finally decide on this and take into account the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.45. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the Ministry of Justice for its participation and cooperation. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law amending the Financial Business Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to divide my introductory presentation into three sets, firstly, I would like to explain the situation, secondly - amendments and finally the decision. If we look at the prevailing situation, we can find that the Company Financial Operations Act provides that the liabilities of deleted capital companies are the responsibility of the shareholders on the basis of an irrefutable legal presumption that they have made a declaration that they agree to accept such an obligation. The law sought to summarise the provisions of the Company Act 1 when the company can terminate after a reduced procedure without liquidation if all the parties propose such an deletion to the court. However, after the Company Finance Act, deleted companies were not aware of what was going on with the company until claims for the company's debts had arrived at their address. Only the company received the deletion decision and it is published in the Official Journal. Which, in our opinion, constitutes a violation of the right to appeal and to a fair trial. We therefore consider that the current regime is a violation of the fundamental principles of corporate law, where shareholders of a capital company are not responsible for the company's obligations. This is also unimaginable compared to other EU Member States. We believe that there are many ways in which creditors can recover their claims from society if they have actually taken advantage of society in order to benefit themselves. The Company Act already allows a departure from that principle in the so-called Institute to overlook legal personality, which constitutes a denial of the separation between the obligations of the company and the shareholders. Furthermore, the shareholders are also liable for criminal offences against the economy if they deliberately brought the company to bankruptcy, so-called false bankruptcy, causing bankruptcy by unknown management, damaging creditors. In addition, creditors may initiate appropriate insolvency proceedings, such as bankruptcy, to ensure payment of their claims. In addition to the enforcement of claims against the shareholder, we believe that it is right that creditors also benefit from institutions that deal with the responsibilities of the members of the management and control bodies of the company, because it is actually those who run the company. The company is a status, it is conceptually solely the owner of the business share or shares of that company. Even after the Financial Action Act, members of the management and control bodies respond indemnity, up to EUR 62,593,89 or 15 million, and in the event of gross negligence or indemnity, irrespective of all their personal property. In addition, the authorities of the management and control of the company may also be prosecuted against the crimes already mentioned against the economy. Even in the wake of this, it does not seem fair to us that it would be considered to be a more stringent liability on the part of the shareholders with its capital than is the case with the Administration and Supervisory Council after the current Company Act. A motion for change, that's what I said. We therefore believe that this arrangement is inadequate and that it needs to be amended accordingly. We propose deleting the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Article 27 of the Financial Operations Act, which provides for the guarantee of the shareholders of the obligations of the deleted company on the basis of an irrefutable legal presumption that it has made a notaryly certified undertaking commitment to the debts of the company. The transitional period shall also be adjusted accordingly. The proposal for a company B Financial Action Act prepared by us at the Ministry of the Economy contains substantive amendments that deal with such a problem in the future. However, the drafters of this proposal had a dilemma as to how to properly regulate procedures, judicial, administrative and enforcement, which were already under way or were already completed. In this regard, the constitutional legal issues of retroactive application of the rules have been raised. 155. Article 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that laws, other regulations and general acts may have no effect in retrospect, but only the law may provide that individual provisions of the Constitution have an effect on the contrary if this requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired. However, the law may amend legally recognised rights with a further effect if these amendments do not conflict with the Constitution with a certain principle or with other constitutional provisions, in particular the principle of trust in law, as one of the principles of the rule of law. We believe that, in the case at hand, we are not prejudiced by the Financial Business Act under B, so we are not prejudiced by the legal right acquired under the Law on the Financial Operations of Businesses back and forth. This is from the beginning of the application of this law, which is here before us today. Such a legal arrangement is therefore not retroactive, in fact means the annulment of a legal decision to move forward, the so-called illegal retroactivity, which the Slovenian constitutional regime permits, which is the result of the decisions already published by the Constitutional Court. Such an intervention in the acquired rights of creditors is the only way to remedy the leaky, unacceptable situation that I described in the introduction. Decision; the Ministry of Economy has also published the proposed amendments in public. On 12 February, there was also a public debate where we wanted to face different views. In the debate, I must say that the law has received great support and that they have seen a solution in it for at least a partial correction of the injustices suffered by the implementation of the Financial Business Act in 1999. It is also very important that the amendment of the law will accelerate the new investment of investors in the company's capital, in the light of the regulation in force, since, in fact, the shareholders may be in constant fear of being held personally liable for debts of a company for which they are not at all responsible. I think that Slovenia is also one of the countries with the lowest level of entrepreneurship, and it is not surprising that such provisions in the Financial Business Act also hinder and suppress the economic initiative and, consequently, this is an additional argument to the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr William Rezman, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government has proposed the law cited. The College decided that the law should be adopted after a reduced procedure, and the Committee on the Economy was designated as the working body of the mother. The Committee held this debate on the basis of the materials it received, of course, the law itself, the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, a number of opinions received by the banks' trade unions, as well as by civil initiatives, those defending the rights of deleted companies or the shareholders of deleted companies. We have also received several amendments, namely three parliamentary groups, LDS, Social Democrats and coalition parties. The proposer is, and I do not intend to repeat this, about as he has just presented the reasons and reasons for why the law had to be drawn up and what he had hoped for when this legislation was enacted, if of course the law was adopted. The legislative and legal service did not have exactly the same considerations, namely the concerns of the Law-Legal Service in this direction. First of all, the need to defend the constitutional principle of equality and equal protection of rights, in the Legislative and Legal Service, was considered to be a threat to the law. It assessed that the first article of the law, however, had only five articles, was inadequate and that it was necessary to find different solutions that would be compromiseable by trying these compromise solutions to satisfy the interests of both creditors and the participant described [[?]] in the role of debtors. The Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the Constitutional Court had already ruled on this and that it had again resolved in a compromise manner by means of a definition which we do not know in the everyday practice of passive and active associates or owners. The law simply assesses that if adopted, as it is now proposed, it would be too much to the benefit of only the shareholders and too much to the detriment of those who are creditors. Article 2 was a fundamental consideration in the sense that the only entity that could, however, claim to reimburse the costs of the creditors of the State and the Legal and Legislative Service considered that this was a privileged status that the State was taking and had doubts about. Article 4 was not just adopted by the Legislative and Legal Service or had concerns about retroactivity. Previously, we have heard that there are different reflections here, that this is an infringement of the rights acquired and that the basic law was not such as to provide retroactivity because it was a one-year transitional period and it would be possible to regulate things differently during this transitional period, including by the shareholders. So, on the basis of these two introductory presentations, there was a debate. The debate was, we can say, quite thorough. The debate has shown that the views are quite different, that they are so polarised, that there was a will on all sides to seek a compromise solution that would not harm anyone and that would bring the situation back to the legal situation that was before the law that was adopted in 1999 and which was in fact that it was bad and also caused injustice. The debate showed that the main reason why the debaters thought they were harmed was that they were both harmed. It must be said that after the discussion no decision was taken on the public presentation of the opinions as proposed. A decision was taken to obtain new data on the basis of which a more substantive conclusion could be made, and all the articles and amendments proposed by the coalition group of parties were adopted. The other amendments were not accepted. Such an updated one-amendment bill is now on the table for consideration and decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Rezman, just stay for the speaker, because the positions of the groups of Members are being presented. And you will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u72	The committee has already shown that there are dilemmas, and today the minister has talked about dilemmas, and the DeSUS Group has similar dilemmas as others. It is mainly about us finding that the best or even the best solutions are no longer. Only solutions are possible that will be less bad and should be given one that will not be the worst and that will not deprive those who now threaten to be deprived. The basic law, as we find out, is not good. He had good intentions, and he had devastating results. The ambitions of the law at the time, but it was mainly to increase financial discipline, payment discipline, and it would also benefit those who are injured today as members, but, unfortunately, this has not happened. More financial discipline, more payment disciplines, we don't have all the way to today. The negative results resulting from this law were realistic and evident in the immediate past. Today we have a situation when we seem to repeat this, that we will once again have good intentions and adopt a law that will have devastating results. At least for some. You know exactly who the most vulnerable are. We assess, in our DeSUS Group, that the law has several aspects, namely, as regards the legal aspect, it is clear that the legal profession is not uniform as well, that they were therefore consulted by experts in charge of this area and that the positions of the profession were opposing. In this regard, we feel that it would be good to take into account the legal profession referred to as the Constitutional Court and the decision adopted by the Constitutional Court in this regard. The second level or the second type, of course, are social problems, social aspects, and we feel that we must protect the rights of workers and workers who have been acquired by work and who have also been recognised by decisions, and that, therefore, in our Group, we do not want to give up on the fact that these rights should be maintained. In particular, this layer of people should not get worse, and later on, the data is about not just a small group of workers and workers, and they could easily swing with their hand, if it does not matter. There are dozens and dozens of workers and workers who will be harmed. We therefore support the amendment drafted by the Confederation of 90, which was adopted by the SNS Group of Members, has been tabled and suggested, on the basis of comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, has also changed slightly. But there are, of course, moral-ethical aspects that would indicate that they should be followed, and we judge that it is necessary to eliminate injustice, for all who are wronged. And that is why it is necessary to adopt the law, but such that it will not cause new injustices, and we have not found this way for once. We are not in favour of any party having a very privileged status in this matter. Now two have it, the state and those who are partners. We believe that everyone must also assume part of the responsibility, namely relative responsibility, with regard to this issue. We feel that it is right to follow the path outlined by the Constitutional Court and that this path is fairer, although it is more difficult. We also agree that this is very difficult. And we didn't want to uncritically erase the debts of those associates who were potential culprits or failed to prove that they had no business, because someone didn't get to the home post office that was [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] recommended, but only on the seat, one private company was that he was therefore a member and director and all at the same time. [[...]] I'd say that's questionable for us, too. So we will listen to today's debate, we will make decisions after hearing any additional arguments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u73	Mr. Rezman!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u74	Of course, so far they have not been and made up their minds. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Matej Močovnik will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! The Financial Business Act, which is before us or the proposal to amend this Act, has different aspects. The first is the one we have been reminded of by the Legislature-Legal Service of this Parliament, which has said very clearly and unequivocally that such a law as is proposed is constitutionally controversial. It is constitutionally disputed from the point of view of two articles of the Constitution, in the light of Article 14 of the Constitution, which speaks of equality before the law and also of Article 22 of the Constitution, which speaks of equal protection of rights. In short, I must say that I have rarely seen such a critical and well-written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service since I am in the National Assembly. I expected the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to think about this and that we would get a different proposal or through amendments a modified proposal. Thus, it was also very clear and unequivocally agreed on by the Committee on the Economy, as my predecessor has already rightly said. We agreed that an amendment to Article 4 of this Law would be included so that this amendment would allow matters to be regulated in an appropriate manner, but obviously these commitments no longer apply here. I would like to point out that these areas we are talking about today are not regulated by European Union directives. This is a matter of national law. What is essential is that, according to the current proposal, the rights of employees are virtually unprotected. Let me give you a concrete example. If a worker has been unemployed for several months, only to resign from the company will she leave the company to resign, to apply to the Employment Office and then to protect her rights in court proceedings. So far, even if the company has been deleted in the meantime, it has had the opportunity to recover these rights from active shareholders, from active ones, those who actively influence the business. She won't have that right again. More. What does the law say? The law states that even those workers and workers who have already been sued must, in a retrial, comply with the principle of legal personality and prove the abuse of society again. Workers and workers who have, say, €400,500 a month's salary should now go to court proceedings that, honourable Members and Members, have been going on for years. In court proceedings with an uncertain legal outcome. A review of the legal personality is extremely difficult if it is not impossible to prove, this also shows Slovenian legal practice and it is necessary to be aware of this, so it was agreed in Article 4 that this is regulated and this agreement is not adhered to by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and we know that all of us who were on the Committee on the Economy. So, our proposal has also been, it is clear from the debate that it is necessary to separate between creditors, in a reasonable way, to justify that you are not in the same position as the bank, when they give loans that have all the data on the credit quality of an individual undertaking, that in another situation there is a country which must also encourage risky investments and it is clear that it does not have some legitimate right now to claim also active shareholders, not if the company has been erased in the meantime, in view of the fact that it in principle encourages the risk of encouraging entrepreneurial decisions, but of course there are workers and workers who cannot recover their own some monthly wages here, however, in a completely different situation. Forcing them into some new judicial proceedings with an uncertain legal outcome, which require a huge amount of funding, is incorrect here. We agreed to regulate this in Article 4 and I am still interested in whether there is some principle agreement in this National Assembly to support it. Our support or failure to support the law will depend precisely on the fact that if we adopt an appropriate amendment in Article 4, we are also prepared to support the law, and without this amendment, of course, we cannot support such a law, nor is it because of the things already agreed on by the Committee on the Economy, how to regulate the rights of those weak ones, not because they do not. I think it's kind of worrying, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u77	Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome it all very well. The Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, fully support the proposed amendments to the Law on the Financial Operations of Enterprises. The law in force since 1999 is unacceptable and I really do not understand how long it has been in force in our practice. This law in 1999 has brought a strangely unique solution in this area when it provides for the removal after the official duty of companies which have not submitted annual reports in two consecutive years have no assets, do not carry out traffic through their accounts which have not complied with the provisions of the Company Act, this law is intended to speed up, improve financial discipline and, of course, also update our Court Register. Few of this has happened to the consequences of these marriages. However, he brought great confusion and, of course, damage to both sides. Nowhere in the world is this and also the ZGD, the Company Act, everywhere we have lived in the faith that what we invest in companies for the purposes of entrepreneurship is practically in the companies with which we "risk" our assets. If the company goes down, we can lose this property. How a company fails, how it is eliminated when it gets into trouble and through bankruptcy it is clear. The Company Act provides for all procedures. Everyone reports their claims to the court. Some are exclusionary, for example, banks are usually excluded, or those protected by mortgages, employees have others and all others, then the court determines the eligibility of all claimed claims, whose dispute is determined that they are not justified and ultimately decides. This is a list of all claims that the company has. Then the bankruptcy manager, in his process from the rest of the assets, collects everything together and distributes evenly if he has something to distribute. Either way, the last person to get anything is the one who owns the company. If all creditors are paid, all those who have declared claims shall then remain the owners of the company. And this is prescribed in the Company Act. The procedures are well known. This law, however, has brought about some strange procedures that do not define the proper conclusion and liquidation of the company. If the State has taken over a task to delete non-operative companies, it should also assume all the obligations arising therefrom. Maybe it's one of those things. Nevertheless, we cannot live in the world, and this is a very bad climate for new investments or investments in economic activity. No one will make a decision unless they practically know what will happen after the end of society. We know that 21,000 companies have already been shut down, that further 21,000 have been issued, that there are 40,000 more. This is said, given the unspecified functioning of this law and the fact that the old law is not acceptable at work when, for the obligations of such deleted companies, the responsible parties on the basis of the undeniable legal presumption that they have made a declaration in agreement with the acceptance of such an obligation. So they're responding with all their assets. The aim of the law will have to be to establish the fact that the shareholders who have invested their assets in entrepreneurship in order to realize their entrepreneurial interest with it can confidently count on the fact that when they invest their assets in society, their personal property is not threatened, but only their contribution. This would give effect to the fundamental principle of corporate law, the separation of the assets of the capital company and the personal property of the shareholder, which represents an important public interest in ensuring an adequate [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and a legally protected environment for investment. [[...]] Once again, we will support all the provisions of the amendment bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u80	President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues. At the LDS Club, we understand that during the initial period of changes in the social system in Slovenia, many entrepreneurs, owners or shareholders, especially smaller companies, were unclear about the rights and obligations and responsibilities they accepted by entering the business environment. However, the period since we all went to the primary school of capitalism has long passed. At that time, we went to high school, and we're at the university level, but we're not taking any more wrong steps. It is surprising, therefore, that the Government's decision to propose to Parliament, instead of a broader debate on changes to the Financial Business Act, which might bring appropriate solutions to all the affected, the adoption of legislation after a reduced procedure. It is clear that such behaviour with the adoption of amendments to the law, which we do not doubt with the unity of the LDS coalition, will lead to new injustices In Article 1 of the Law amending the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises, the Government proposes to delete the arrangements whereby, within one year of the publication of the removal of the company by official duty, the creditor may have applied its claims again to the active shareholder. According to the Constitutional Court’s decision, the active shareholder is the shareholder who has had an impact on the company’s operations and has a high level of involvement in the company’s management. As a result of the proposed Article 1 of this Law, these creditors will lose the possibility of protecting their claims to society and will result in a legal void. According to the LDS Legislative and Legal Service, this regulation is questionable from the point of view of equality before the law under Article 14 of the Constitution, because the proposal for a law establishes a position in which creditors are not protected. The proposed amendment of the law will remove the legal protection of the creditors of deleted companies and lower their legal protection standard compared to creditors under the Forced Settlement, bankruptcy and liquidation Act. In the first paragraph of Article 4 of this Law, the Government proposes that all administrative and enforcement procedures in which creditors of a deleted company claim against a member of such a company, which are not yet terminated on the date of the application of this Act, shall be terminated on the date of the application of this Act. Such content is contrary to the prohibition of retroactivity of rules and the prohibition of interference with acquired rights and the principles of the protection of trust of law, as set out in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It also interferes with the proposed Article 4 of the Act in the substantive criteria for dispute resolution, as the proceedings have been initiated on the basis of the responsibility of active shareholders, the deleted companies proposed in Article 4 and this decision-making criterion has been terminated, even for legal proceedings already initiated. This will mean that creditors will even have to pay their own costs of court fees due to the interruption of judicial proceedings. As a result, workers will also not be able to recover unpaid regresses, salaries and contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance contributions. The question is why the Government wants to relieve only entrepreneurs who have imported and left businesses to be removed by official duty. Does the government even consider workers, creditors, who will thus remain empty? We therefore agree with Dr. Borut Bratina, published in Finance, on 16.2. It is said that, instead of the fact that creditors have to prove that a member of the company has actually made a personal contribution to the detriment of the company, they should reverse the practice in such a way that the accused should prove that he has not done so. The company charged with the charges, i.e. compared to the creditors, has internal acts and decisions of the authorities of the company and can thus reject any unjustified claim. Such a method of proof is already used in the Takeover Act, in identifying related persons who accurately identify the cases where individuals are connected and the alleged persons now have to prove for themselves that they are not. And that is what we think would be the solution to these problems. While the Government proposes to introduce a legal obligation in exchange for deleting the provisions of Article 27, paragraphs 4 and 5, of the Financial Operations Act. This means that workers, as creditors, will have to apply the provisions of the Company Act to the exclusion of legal obligations in court proceedings and prove that the shareholders have abused the legal person. However, the transparency of the legal personality is difficult to prove, even within 30 days of the decision to suspend the proceedings, since new workers, for example, should prove to each member of the deleted company that he intended to know whether or not he should have known about the abuse of the company. In court practice, this is practically impossible, and for workers who are weaker, this will be an impossible task at all. For all the reasons mentioned, depending on the evolution of the debate and any amendments, if not, the LDS Club will oppose the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, National Assembly. Members and Members of the Social Democrats agree that the regulation of the area of open claims and obligations of undertakings which have been officially deleted from the business register on the basis of the adopted Financial Business Act of 1999 is necessary. According to the applicant himself, in the introduction of the law, the aim of the adoption of a law on the financial business of companies was good. In particular, the law is intended to help improve the update of the Court's register and to bring companies in line with the applicable law of the ZGD. At the same time, the applicant notes that the law is not clear or acceptable in the work relating to the obligations of the shareholders of deleted companies. Let me remind you here that the interpretation of the law has also been influenced by the Constitutional Court, which, by a decision of the shareholders, divided into active and passive ones and thus defined their duties and rights. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats are not in a position to agree with the bill in such a form for a number of reasons. The first is certainly due to its retroactivity, although the minister claims otherwise. The draft law has a retroactive effect on rights and duties, and in the event of the adoption of the law in the proposed form without rights, former employees who have not received paid salaries and contributions to the work they have done would remain unemployed, irrespective of the status of their complaints and claims in different companies. The second reason lies in the fact that the Government, under the auspices of the removal of so-called injustices from the past today, can create new injustices, even though the Social Democrats are aware that some of the people who carried out their activities in accordance with the current legislation and in the light of the good host were affected by the adoption of the 1999 law. As a third reason for the opposition, I would like to point out the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which in its opinion made two observations concerning the violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law directly violates the rights of equal rights, which is contrary to Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and violates the rights acquired to equal protection of rights, which is contrary to Article 22 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The fourth, including the last reason for the opposition, relates to the functioning of the Government. Unfortunately, the government has not held a public debate on the draft law, which we have expected from the Social Democrats, because we are convinced that it does not solve the injustices from one person to another. Although the Minister convened a meeting which was supposed to be a co-ordination meeting, but not all interested public were invited to the meeting, he did not invite Members either, and communication problems were likely to arise. At the meeting, we agreed and voted on the proposal to provide the Government with, by the third reading of the law, information on the number of enforcements, the number of complaints, the number of such companies in one person, the director and the associate, and the amount of principals and interest, and I must conclude that the Government has not fully complied with this decision. Let me stress that, in cooperation with the Trade Unions, we have already amended the proposal for a law in the second reading in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, in particular through the Confederation of Trade Unions 90 and the Free Trade Unions. We fear that today's government or ruling coalition will work in a standard way so that the law will be adopted in such a form, but if not and an amendment is proposed in cooperation with the Trade Union 90 and the Free Trade Unions, as well as with the civil initiative represented by the shareholder of the deleted companies, then we can also expect the Social Democrats to support this law in such a form with the amendment. We believe that employees in deleted companies are really at least guilty of poor solutions and unacceptable behaviours that have led many good companies to insolvency and bankruptcy, and that is why we expect a solution for these workers in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u84	President-in-Office, Minister-in-Charge with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for a law amending the company's financial regulation because we believe that changes are essential in particular, in order to create comparable opportunities for the establishment of new companies by domestic and foreign investors. Article 27 of the Act deletes the fourth and fifth paragraphs, which lays down the fundamental principle of the separation of shareholders' assets from the property and liability of a capital company and removes the interference of the current law with this principle. The main purpose of the current law, which was amended in 1999, was to improve payment non-discipline, to increase the security of creditors and to make it as easy as possible to delete non-functional companies from the register of undertakings. In our view, the law has not achieved the objectives set, and in particular has not achieved the main objective of improving payment non-discipline. In our view, the law is unfair in the part where it obliges the shareholders of a capital company to be liable for the obligations of a company with the personal property of the shareholders, which is a very large intervention in fundamental corporate principles. In the view of the New Slovenia Group, this amendment of the law has severely affected the personal property of the shareholders, including those who have become members solely due to inheritance, certificates, unpaid salaries, retirement and the like. In 2002, the law was also the subject of a hearing before the Constitutional Court, which adopted a decision which divides the shareholders into active and passive, which is to be decided by the courts on the basis of an individual assessment without predetermined criteria. In particular, pre-established criteria would be important in this case, as it happens that, at the time of inclusion, the shareholders do not know their status nor do they know whether they have compromised their personal property as well. It is known that the owner was identified as an active participant with 0.6% of the share of the company. One of the cases is also pending a decision in the European Court of Justice. On the Committee on the Economy, and also on the part of the proponents of the existing law, unpaid salaries are often exposed to workers and not returned to commercial banks. As far as workers' salaries are concerned, in New Slovenia we support all solutions that would help employees get paid. It should be noted that similar rights are also enjoyed by workers who are deleted as a result of the disappearance of businesses, such as workers in bankruptcy from the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. As far as the damage to banks is concerned, it must be said that this is mainly due to the unserious and inconsistent operation of banks that have borrowed funds from founders and savers without adequate insurance. The biggest victim of the existing law, however, was the loss of work and personal property by entrepreneurs who often did not fail because of their guilt. That this has occurred and is still happening, according to the New Slovenia Group, the main and biggest culprits are large systems that did not meet their obligations to suppliers and subcontractors. The higher interests often led to forced settlement and bankruptcy in these systems, where very short-term entrepreneurs were usually drawn. It was also often the case that the company had claims that were clearly the property of the company, that the company had been erased due to inactivity and that the debts had passed on to the shareholders. In such cases, such claims were not [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] never settled, because society no longer existed. [[...]] In the New Slovenia Group, we support the amendment of the Company Finance Act because we are convinced that the only rule is that a capital company in [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u85	Mr. Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u86	normal operating conditions, which are only responsible for its business by means of capital invested in society, are also comparable and acceptable in Europe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u87	Yes, thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u88	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending the Financial Business Act has a total of 5 articles and deals with an extremely important and sensitive issue. The new law corrects the error made by the adoption of the Financial Business Act in 1999. In order to improve payment discipline and increase the security of creditors, this allowed the removal of non-functioning companies from the register and at the same time determined the liability of shareholders to capital companies for obligations under the official duty of the deleted company. Later, the Constitutional Court restricted the issue of transparency of legal personality to so-called active partners, at least partially correcting the inadequate regulation of the Financial Business Act. The fact is, therefore, that in 1999 the law adopted did not have the desired effects and caused many anomalies and changed the basis for the decision in contravention of the fundamental principles of corporate law, which are both legal in Slovenia and are applicable in Europe and in the wider international area. Of course, after years of implementation of this law, any solution can be predetermined as bad. There are many problems and questions about the protection of creditors, about retroactivity, the proposed amendment of the law and so on. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the examples of the practice cited by the drafter of the law in the introductory explanation clearly show that the current solution to this area is not appropriate. Let me just mention one thing between them, just the most absurd situation when workers became members of the company because of their underpaid salaries on the basis of debts. These were issued on the basis of a law governing the property transformation of companies, and when this company was deleted under the Financial Business Act, these same workers became insolvent, irresponsible debtors to the creditors of the deleted company. This is similar to saying that those workers who have not received wages and are barely able to survive, instead of paying wages, we leave the debts of a share company. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that a more detailed comment on such solutions as this law allows is not necessary. We certainly support the proposed novel. The law should have been changed a long time ago. Not only because of the cases I described earlier, but especially because the rules in force are completely contrary to the principles of corporate law. It is also not and cannot be in accordance with the principles of the rule of law to decide the courts on a case-by-case basis, whether it is an active or passive participant. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law, although we are aware of the concerns that some experts in this area have when adopting this law. We see an additional guarantee in the previous provision of the law, which, irrespective of the limitation periods, allows creditors to lodge an action under certain conditions in the event that the misappropriation of a legal person is ensured due to the abuse of the position of their associates. As we say, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support proposals for a law amending the company's financial regulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe in the well-intention of the Government and the Minister himself to correct and stop the actual anarchy in this area. However, the applicable law, which was adopted in 1999, which was intended to improve payment discipline, did not do so. We are still witnessing to individuals who have more than one company and are easily closed and opened in order, if necessary, by another, with a related programme, of course, workers are placed in front of the institution and then taken back again, and they receive a million and half tolars from the country. This is the minister, you'll have to stop. The minister won't listen to me. Sure. And if we are talking about the failure of the law to achieve the expected effects, this is a major issue that I want to point out. Of course, because the question of the adequacy of the provisions makes sense when we talk about passive and active factors in societies. The validity of the arrangements was also subject to a constitutional judgment. The Constitutional Court has simply decided to annul the contested decisions. And, of course, if we look at the assessment of the financial implications. I do not think anyone today has talked about how much this would mean for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia; we must say that the adoption of the proposed law in such a form, which, of course, is also an amendment, would have a real impact on the budget. If we are talking about the fact that Durs actually made some assessment for 2007 and 2008, this would be between 15 million and 20 million tolars, I am speaking in tolars, I forgive myself, and if the data from the tax record were up to 30.6., which shows that the number of companies that have been deleted under the Act 4475 would be 23 billion. Of course, if we are talking about the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that we cannot pass, then we must point out that it is stated here that if the proposed regulation is adopted, the creditor will lose the possibility of judicial protection. Yeah, what about the constitutional right to judicial protection of individuals? We have legal decisions that have been reached by workers in the courts, and these legislative decisions say that these workers have the right to recover their debt, which the employer has to pay in some way, which has been erased, which has been taken care of by the State, of course, totally understandable and for understandable reasons, as they have already been told. In this context, it is entirely reasonable to support the amendment to Article 4 and we have written down that the claims of the employee who has ceased their employment relationship before the company’s removal are made under the Financial Action Act or the recognised legal judgment are fully paid to the burden of the public guarantee and the assets fund of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that it is the right guardian to repay the injustice to the weakest article, which is a working class that is essentially nothing to blame because we have made sure that some administratively technical legal negligence has also erased the speculative ones, and we allow it to do so. Even today, a little while ago, I was saying that there are great speculative moments that we consciously despise. And if we take these facts into account, which the Committee on the Economy has also pointed out, then we must somehow correct the injustices in return. And I would appeal to you, honourable Members and Members, to support the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, or my amendment, which I have tabled in Article 4. Indeed, the predecessor has already warned me that the Committee has also decided that the Government will present all the financial implications before the meeting of the National Assembly. Minister, this has not been done and it would be proper for us not to look for ourselves, to tell you how many of these actions are or how many of these claims are already legal and just need to be taken care of. I think that if we are in a social state and, in essence, a constitutional provision that says that we essentially have the constitutional right of judicial protection to respect the legislative decisions that have been rendered in courts. For this we must already oblige our Government, and before that, the Minister of Economy cannot run away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to the debate on Article 4 and on the amendment to this Article tabled by the SNS Group of Members. This is all that should be discussed, please follow this instructions a little. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 4 and on the amendment to this Article. Mr. Starman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable, I would say that, in no case, any law and this also applies to this applicable law of 1999 on the financial operation of undertakings cannot determine the manner or procedure in which any owner of the company would guarantee more than he owns in the company. I also see no reason why in this age of computer science and everything needs to be speeded up or erased by companies that no longer operate, for which it somehow assumes responsibility. They are here, I think the whole Financial Transactions Act of 1999 is practically unnecessary. All these things are governed by the Company Act, both old and new, all procedures that specify exactly what the consequences are, what are the ways of ending, what are the responsibilities, who bear the financial consequences and what are the judicial and judicial proceedings. In short, we have made this law one major mess that no one in the world knows, and we have gained no benefit at all. As a result, financial discipline has not increased by a percentage, I do not see any source at all, and in what way it would increase, and every day, when we allow this legal weird situation, which is far from any normal corporate law, has a bad impact on business decisions or on investing in our companies, it is therefore necessary to make it more practical as soon as possible. I do not support the amendment to Article 4, because it practically does not mean any solution. All solutions in normal procedures without this law are, of course, foreseen, but not after this rapid procedure, in the way that it provides for the removal of the official duty from the register, but here we have blurred the situation and made a legal mess where, in fact, if it were known, many more people could benefit in this way. The fact is that it does not benefit the other party or the other party and places on its head some logical rules that are in force in the law of companies or corporate law. The change that we have before us is necessary for us to accept, because otherwise we will build up a lot more without the necessary problems, without the necessary lawsuits, and all together also companies that do not carry out their activities for two years, who no longer have capital, must close themselves in the way that the Company Act provides for, through the Court at its final stage, to settle all obligations of one and the other, and this is normal. They have this practice all over the world. What we have done is an exception which is completely contrary to all laws, particularly the Law on Economic Companies. That's why I won't support this amendment. And once again, I think that there is no reason why we should not eliminate these anomalies, which actually introduce only one major chaos, great unnecessary costs and damage to everyone, so the owners of the companies, and there is no procedure, practically someone, all of us together, not some way we can potentially harm with all of their assets, because there is no provision for any property to liquidate or execute that now, but money will be collected regardless of what kind of involvement a company owner has been in, money can be wiped out where it is, it is said that wherever there will be anything to be done, that we can all do, and here we can all be affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I agree with those colleagues and colleagues who have also paid particular attention to Article 4 and the legal issues in this regard in the presentations of the Group. I also agree that this time there is an argument, not only this time, but this time in particular, which the Legal and Legal Service has given to the labour force and is indisputable and clear to all of us. And if the Government were willing to read what was written, it would certainly know that in this case it interferes with acquired rights differently than the Constitution provides. In fact, it is explicitly stated in Constitutional Court decision U121/2 that the Court of Justice has supplemented the decision in the sense that the prohibition of retroactivity does not mean that the proceedings should end in accordance with the procedural rules under which it began and the legislator in the procedural law may provide in a transitional provision that the new procedural rules shall enter into force immediately, i.e. in the case of proceedings pending. And this part is referred to by the Government and it says, "This is unfair retroactivity, we can do it" and as usual, it does not read to the end. In fact, the same Constitutional Court further said 'but there are certain restrictions. The transitional regime shall be without prejudice to legal proceedings or proceedings carried out and shall not alter the substantive criteria of the decision in the dispute; it shall be clear from Slovenia and legally "not interfere with the proceedings which have been completed"; nor shall it affect the right of enforcement, which exists and not in legal matters. However, in the case of the proposed provision, the enforcement procedures for intervention shall be put to rest in a legally completed procedure. Gentlemen from the Government, it is truly clear, it is clear and probably about other reasons, not about legal ones that do not allow you to do so. Which are, it is right to say; if you think it is a difference in the visa of some other claims, perhaps only there could you rely on the legal opinions of the Constitutional Court, which said that the distinction is permissible if it is a different position of individual entities and if there are reasonable reasons to do so. This could also be referred to and said that workers who have not been able to enforce their claims so far do not have legal and enforceable judgments. That is why I am really interested and I ask you to say whether you think it is right on the part of the State, and you, as the Government, are also presenting it, in addition to us, who are going to vote that the right that has been subjected to torture is forfeited by torture in court and that it is not possible to enforce it. And this, according to a new proposal, not even in the burden of companies that have repeatedly been treated in an inadequate way, even through this law. In the last proposal, not at the expense of the shareholders of these companies, active or inactive, but under the burden of the guarantee and maintenance fund, this is the state; and if, at some point, the country in which we are in a situation caused by its rules, help to solve it. Mr Minister, I do expect your undisputed and clear statement in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Given, in fact, the constant call of Members or Members to separate creditors, this is said to separate creditors, for example: banks or companies are one, they are not justified, for which the regulation is as it is, and for workers, of course, it has to be arranged differently. Of course, our basic reservation is of course the problem and problem of resolving creditors, according to its status, but I would point out that the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund Act as well as the Financial Operations Act of its Article 27 in the basic text states that workers who cease their employment relationship under the preceding paragraph have the same rights as workers who have ceased their employment relationship due to bankruptcy, including rights under the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund Act. Workers have this right under the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund Act when deleted. This is said to have the same status, but I am aware that the messages emanating from the comments of Members and Members on the legal and enforceable addresses of workers represented by the two unions in this particular case are about 100 such procedures and such concrete workers, I can say that the Ministry of the Economy will endeavour to resolve these issues further, I am convinced that, with good faith and, of course, in a legally clear and unambiguous way, we can also find common solutions here, because at least in the interest of the Government, it is for this law to cause new injustices, at the very least. We want to eliminate a non-European solution that is an attack on entrepreneurship. This solution, enshrined in the Financial Business Act, is an attack on entrepreneurship, I claim with all responsibility. In fact, those who invest and trust their capital to the administration, then they also have the administration, the supervisory councils and everything, in the end, they respond subsidiaryly, is, in fact, a unique standard, which is in contradiction with all the logic of corporate law and is therefore unacceptable, so we delete it and so we delete the consequences of this unacceptable norm from the past. However, we do not want the most vulnerable groups of creditors to suffer some lasting consequences, and this will be done by the Government further. We believe that it would be problematic to settle this with an amendment that would select creditors for each other, so the Government has not approved this amendment. Of course, there are other ways, and here we want to find solutions, and I believe we will find them too.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. When I and all my colleagues in the DeSUS Group defend this amendment, we do not think that this is a defence of the bad law of 1999, we agree that that law is bad and we are not interfering with those solutions that you wish to resolve in the previous articles, not in the 4th article concerning the 1999 law, therefore, this statement cannot be addressed to us. Secondly, when we talk about whether it is possible to separate creditors or not, I can say that we have already discussed this and that some of us have already claimed that the trustee is a creditor, large or small, that the Government has responded, that it is not such that large creditors have credit rating services and that we could have already checked with whom they operate and with whom they do not. And the third time that all creditors are not equal by status [[?]] One creditor is now workers, ignorant, ignorant, and the other creditors are banks with all their intellectual and other potential, and I don't think it's right to compare it with a simple equation right now. Therefore, while we know that the amendment is not perfect, we are defending only these rights of those workers who have lost their jobs, who have been given a'satisfaction' in the form of a judicial decision, that they are right to be harmed and that the ambition of this amendment is very modest, therefore it is a matter of a much more modest ambition, for those who are in great distress, than for the hardships of a large system called the state budget, which should move or eliminate something small from their 'budget'. So, this is not about defending a bad marriage, the 1999 law, it's about preventing new injustices and allowing those who have worked to pay their wages not to get paid to get paid for it. This is an exclusive ambition, but it does not mean that the law is what we now have before us, but good. I said we're looking for the one that's the least bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u100	I only owe you one more piece of information. It is shown that workers, or that most of these, only on the creditors' side, are on the debtor's side, are more than those who have to pay the pensioners today, because they, too, were the owners of companies, have obtained them by means of ownership certificates in different ways, and today those who pay as subsidiary for the responsibilities of some non-economic decisions and if you read the case, you will read the fates of these people, including in the Constitutional Court's decision. And then the call to look between active and passive causes new and new litigation, new and new costs. Tell me, how will someone determine an active and passive owner, based on the level of ownership, based on participation in the congregation? Someone could be relatively active with 5%, but someone with 30% inactive, depending on the situation, and depending on the justification and the prosecution and the state did not want to, I stress again, or the Government and the Ministry of the Economy in this case set up some new injustices, no, she wanted to do one more of these old injustices, which, once again, were an attack on entrepreneurship, the end and she is also willing to solve these, I think, much, much less, the problems that have been inflicted on individuals and will also solve them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer. Wait a minute, Mr. Rezman, you were quoted as to the replica. You'll be able to apply again in the next round. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not support this amendment alone, because the arrangements for payment of these claims are already laid down in the guarantee and maintenance fund and whenever we double the provisions and if they are not completely identical and the same problem always arises in interpreting which law, of course, applies the principle of the last law, but nevertheless there are differences and this is not good, unnecessary. Finally, we can conclude that this law, which is now repealing the previous Calvary, is also unnecessary in its own way, could, by means of transitional provisions, repeal the previous law, which is indeed a model of what should not be adopted. You know, there was a marriage, and then he had quite a round of applause. This was at first sight a popular law for voters, a popular law for people, and in the end it turned out to be a bad law for voters, for citizens, for owners, for workers and for the country, because it set a bad example of how not to do business. We would like to teach the world in our own way how to make things right. But the principles of corporate law are long-lasting, these principles have also been met with torture, including victims were various owners, capital, personal property, family property and workers themselves. It is therefore appropriate to respect and abide by these principles of this law. Of course, it also raises the question whether to separate creditors or not. Each of these creditors has his own insurance. For the worker we have already identified, the guarantee and maintenance fund, for the banks we know how they have secured claims, they also have insurance companies, they also have reinsurance systems, so let's not bother with these things because the system is already fixed in this sense. Of course, problems with judicial proceedings, current, living, judicial proceedings. This also raises, of course, the responsibility of those who have not triggered insolvency proceedings. If supervisors and managers of the Financial Business Act were to comply with the bankruptcy procedure in due time, all these claims that we are now talking about, which somehow belong to banks, insurance companies, workers who should then be paid by the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund and also by the State should be settled. The state is also a creditor here. I ask whether these claims were filed in due time for bankruptcy proceedings in the event of insolvency. We have a clear definition. And if they were not, then there are also obligations of the State and the chiefs to file complaints against those who were then competent. That's how the world judges, or else it doesn't work. So who's going to be in charge of that? Now all these burdens would be shifted to the budget and taxpayers. This is the easiest thing to do in this common cash register, in this common pomegranate and so pay. This is it, and I think this is a very good experience for Slovenia, to adhere in advance to these standards that we have established in other laws. These standards are established, only to stick to them. All those institutions that are bound or individuals in the role of supervisors, acting as supervisory boards, then directors with their powers and compensation responsibilities to act as supervisors. And the thing will be transparent and also good. Finally, as I have pointed out with regard to the amendment, it is not necessary because it is in the guarantee fund. The question is how to supplement this law. I am of the opinion that we should repeal those provisions and regulate in the transitional provisions what is absolutely necessary due to living procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! For me, the basic objective is to create the conditions for economic activity. One of these problems is certainly the result of this law, which we have had so far, as well as unpaid wages. When the Law-Legal Service wrote its position on the amendment that we are currently considering, it also wrote: The question is whether the specific treatment of workers of deleted companies in relation to other workers under the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund Act is in line with the principle of equality, in particular with regard to the actual and actual reasons for the justification of such distinction. I think it's very eloquent and clearly written. And if such an amendment were to be accepted, there would be a difference between the workers who went in bankruptcy form or any other form and topic that would be paid after this amendment, and all those claims they have from, I will say, on the basis of recovery, on the basis of the personal property of the shareholders, there is a difference. The issue of the non-disclosure of the shareholders has also been raised many times. Today, as many times as it has been said that, as long as a member is not doing business properly and can be proved to be doing so, it is possible to sue, and such a member is not subject to a separation between personal and capital assets, on the basis of a lack of legal personality and also on the basis of criminal liability. As an example, I would point out one example of an entrepreneur who at the time of retirement received a reward from the company when he retired, but only received shares of that company and, of course, after a few years, on the basis of that gift, they naturally began to tear him away from his pension and he only received a pension in the amount legally provided. Therefore, my position is that it is necessary for all those workers who are likely to be harmed in any way, otherwise, to try to save, not at any cost, to make it worse or to have the poor conditions that we have in the current law for the functioning of economic societies. Here I might say one more thing, I think that there is some reason for this situation in the capital base of these companies as well. In fact, very low capital bases were prescribed for the establishment of capital companies, probably partly the reason here, and in my opinion it would be better now, but in the future it would probably have to be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u105	Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the distinguished Minister and colleagues and colleagues! It is awe - inspiring to listen to the wisdom of some. Look, but this is about the legal judgments handed down in the courts. The Minister himself said there were no more than 100. It is therefore a matter of regulating the most sensitive problem, which is the rights of workers arising from working relationships. What is the worker's fault if the state shut down his business and cannot recover his rights arising from the right to work the past part. Please, not least how many claims the state has written off to businesses and have gone into public debt; billions and billions, hundreds and billions; and here we are talking about a couple million and we are wise. You can be ashamed of those who speak like that. Fixing these injustices would make sense, and it would be urgent right away. I didn't say the minister didn't have a good purpose when he proposed this marriage. I believe that it was the intention to stop the lumparium, to stop the speculative moments in the economy, when some people are trying to speculate today, before I told them in what way, we did not do this when they have individuals after a few companies today, they deliberately shut them down and activate others who are in stock, they send workers to the institution, and then they get a million and a half for the same workers they hire in another company. Minister, that would have to be stopped, that. And look, when we talk about this, disregarding court decisions, this is also one of the contempt decisions of the courts when the state loses. Today, I have asked the Justice Minister how much of this financial means the State has to deduct with interest later in the recovery of 100 times the amount, billions are coming because our state's defence is not working, the laziness is there, they're doing nothing, and the decisions of the courts coming to state offices and the ministries are buzzing, they're being thrown into drawers. And it is only from this title that we can settle this debt 1,000 times, which is written down in this law by up to 100 workers, that it is shameful that we do not want to do so. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, when you speak, it is a shame to hear this from the former ministers' mouths, that the court decision does not apply, that we may initiate new judicial proceedings in the case of workers who do not have a guaranteed personal income or who do not have a means of subsistence. How are you going to tell a worker who has a legal decision that he does not have the right to recover the amount ordered by the court, tell me, tell me, how are you going to tell the worker in what way? Those of you who defend this today, go among these workers, there are 100 of them, and explain it to them. They have legal decisions and tell them how they can't actually get that money, why they won't get it. Because we changed the rules of the game? You know, it's a shame. And even if we look at the constitutional protection of equality from the law, that's far from it. I believe that this National Assembly is in a number of violations of constitutional provisions, we adopt unconstitutional laws, and that is all. And think about what we're doing, we can't give the crumbs while we throw the whole loaf of bread in the dumpster.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Perhaps some more information, some circumstances that are important in this discussion and in the adoption of this law. The country, in particular the Ministry of Finance or the tax administration, contributes to the resolution of this problem by around EUR 100 million. That is also the case with the State over unpaid taxes, contributions and the like. I would like to point out that these are mainly poor claims, i.e. questionable recoverable claims due to creditors who cannot or are having difficulty paying this. Once again, creditors are also pensioners, creditors are workers, creditors are also people who borrowed their name, their assets by setting up companies by some of their friends, acquaintances. We have to keep you in mind, too. And we must also bear in mind that there are many of these claims that are virtually inexhaustible or poorly expendable, because they have a creditor somewhere, but this creditor is unable to settle these matters because it is a natural person on the other hand. It is also important to bear in mind the message that I have given here, that the country is aware of this problem and that it is ready to be resolved in accordance with the Slovenian acquis. I think that there can be a solution, that the State may, if it is found that in this case the creditors have been harmed by the State and that the State is actually obliged to cover it, also in some way cover it. And the Ministry of Economy is inclined to do so in this limited number of cases. Once again, I do not know if this is an even more positive solution than having a legally enforceable decision and not having money on the other hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you. I am opening a new round of application for all those who wish to discuss Article 4 and the amendment of the SNS Group to this Article. Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you, President for your word. Let me start by saying that I support the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. I support him because such an amendment causes undeniably less damage than it does to a naked law. In doing so, I also base this on the fact that the Government, by amending the law, has in fact violated the whole of the Constitution by itself, in particular, in at least three articles. Let us only remember Article 14, which speaks of equality, remember Article 2, which speaks of confidence in law, that is, an article that speaks of the unacceptable retroactivity of the conduct of the State or the courts and so on and of the Government, at least so many violations of this most powerful act of Slovenian, the State, that it seems to me that compliance with this amendment is a violation of the principle of equal treatment of workers in the event of claims, is much less controversial than that of the Government itself. If the government wants good, if the government wants to protect this population of the most vulnerable, it should say so itself, we are aware that in this part we are somewhat on the verge of regularity, of legality, and we are aware that such a law has further violated laws and the constitution. For this reason, I think that the Government should consider and consider that this amendment is the only solution that fairly gives the most vulnerable category, formerly employees of some or most unemployed people, this right to receive these claims from the past period. In particular, I should point out that, of course, the law does not escape me if it comes into force. I am sure and agree that those who establish companies, those who invest in the various forms of organisation of these companies, must not also respond unconditionally to all personal property. However, we have been in some previous period, during this previous period we have all gained experience in entrepreneurship, and unfortunately some have not been aware of what they committed themselves to when they entered this circle. Nor do I agree to be burdened and burdened back with personal property, but I further agree that this is possible. In return, however, these active ones have to either bear the consequences or, if the Government wants to protect them by law, do not let those consequences affect those who fall short of a substantial part of their claims. As we know that these are people who are probably on the verge of survival or who have lived for a long time, it seems to me that the state should listen to them in such a way that the amendment can pay off this guarantee fund. I understand the government wants to be liked by a particular group of populations that are organised in or in the S.p. or small enterprises, large companies, etc. This is understandable to me, and it is right and you must have legal protection and protection. I cannot and do not understand the Government, which does not want to protect this part of the population, which, in this transition from socialism to capitalism, has accepted the greatest burden on itself. Among them are those who, of course, suffered the consequences of deleting businesses. In particular, the Government should be aware of what it is actually saying in the words of Mr Visiak that it does not want to cause new injustices. Mr. Visjak, cause them! You're making these people feel guilty. If you are unjust to those who have suffered this harm because they have had businesses because they have failed to do business, protect those who thus cause them injustice. If this form or your interpretation of the public benefit is appropriate, I think that in previous discussions we have all found that it is not a public benefit, that the public benefit in this case is not threatened, that the public benefit is in fact only a form and a form that ensures that one of the arguments also has a certain power. I have no pity for certain large systems, no pity for some large creditors who have just gone into a story called unverified or lending of funds or giving of material, giving and concluding contracts, etc. Most of them had the opportunity to identify these issues through their organisation, through their jobs, through their credit checks, etc. But people, workers, and you couldn't have it. And if they have been deprived of legal protection, if they have been deprived of the possibility of applying or the status of the unemployed, because the companies have disappeared and have therefore been deprived of the possibility of applying the salary, pension, regression and so on, I do not think we can allow that. I also feel sorry for and feel that it is not right to hurt those who are now retired or who are no longer owners of these companies to be burdened with personal property. But that's another story. I agree, and I do not agree with that, but I do not agree that some others are causing these injustices. That is why I am also surprised that I know Mr Starman, former director of Jelovica, who, as far as I know, has always had a hearing for the employees, has always protected the employees so ruthlessly that he believes that we must first protect the owners of the capital. I believe that we must protect them, that we must give them stable conditions for employment, but I think that workers who, in the case of Jelovica, have completely different protection, this right or those workers have the same right as he, as Director of Jelovice, in his company. For this reason, I propose that we look at this possible discrepancy or inequality that is pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and confirm this amendment, which would largely solve all the problems that we have today. In the end, we have to decide whether or not to vote for the law. If this amendment is not adopted, I declare that I will not confirm the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u111	Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, let me start by saying that this law is necessary because of the kind of fundamental things it solves. But this kind of law was equally needed in 1999. And it's absurd to talk to some people today, even there were managers here, that a terrible attack on entrepreneurship was then a law. The current Minister of Mag. The Vizjak was a working inspector at the time. And if he looks back a little bit, he'll be able to figure out that everything wasn't brilliant back then. The law of 1999 was about to do something, to end the debauched story of the quasi-entrepreneurship, but not that, more speculative entrepreneurship. If I think about it, I know very well how the business system of Slovenia has been dying, and even today, there will still be a number of long-nose employees, as they have been since the year of this deletion. Just as that law was understated at the time for some of the consequences, even today. We need to know that the associates were made by completely naive people, without all the behavior that they entered into. And that then they were victims of their ignorance, and that they should be burdened after all. That they were becoming, I don't know, entrepreneurs who just thought, "Now I'm just gonna get rich." I know these people, I've had them at work, and I know what their range is, and what their horizons are, and how these people are going to take the company seriously. It happened what had to happen. And also for so many bypass companies that had those entrepreneurs who were most active in the Chamber of Commerce and also in the Chamber of Commerce that it was necessary, but let the Government stop this unpaid discipline, but the generator of this non-discipline were themselves entrepreneurs through their bypass companies where they had, on some only negative, on others active assets. It was therefore necessary to intervene at that time, and unfortunately for all the consequences, the intervention at that time was insufficiently appropriate. Same today. The minister says, "The government will do its best." However, if we are correct, the Government must place this effort on a solid foundation in this law. And I don't see what's wrong with anything. No matter how much the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund Act is already saying to me that, at least to those beneficiaries who have been given the right in the proceedings, it is appropriate that at least those who are not allowed to draw directly or obtain rights from the Maintenance Fund Act and the Labour Relations Act, and ultimately from corporate law. Why are we afraid of these few people if I only take the first paragraph of this amendment to do so? Look, I'm not going to argue a lot, but it's easy to get out of position, then it was bad, and now we're going to try to make it better. It's the same thing. We'll try. And I am a little concerned that with every, almost every other law that comes into this Parliament now, weaker groups of people are putting themselves in ever-increasing infirmities or failures to implement their expectations. And that's the law. That's not right. I'm telling you, it's not right. Finally, even if we are talking about some pedigree of the social state and a number of the titles of this parliamentary democracy entitled Social Democrats. I think it's necessary in this marriage, with this amendment to resolve it. Only in this will there be the entitlements and promises of the Minister, whom I respect, when the Member was in the previous term and also now Minister, but now is the time to resolve this. Otherwise, it will remain the same as it remained under the 1999 law, where we call "the attack on entrepreneurship". Far from it, the one who was, with the thought and ability of the entrepreneur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Peche. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. It is not right for spears to break down on those who are in one way or another socially threatened, those who, if we call them otherwise, are at the bottom of a social or social scale. Ladies and gentlemen, in the National Assembly, we adopt many acts that entail a write-off of claims of various ratings or even financial incentives, the rewards of mega state systems. Therefore, I think it is even more important that we should not turn our backs on those who have been directly or directly harmed by the State in the past. And the amendment that we offer you in the Slovenian National Party for admission is either protecting you or allowing you to get paid for your past, but the emphasis is, the work done. The amendment that we are offering you for admission is simply correcting the injustices that have been committed by the State, the Government, in the past. With the amendment, once again, I stress, we pay back the past or the work already done. The amendment will have no major financial implications, as we have also indicated in the explanation. The minister came across his thumb to estimate that it would be a million euros. But this is where he pawned his thought. He didn't say where that million euros would go. Gentlemen, this million euros will go if he goes, if the amendment is accepted, into a positive matter. This million euros won't go anywhere else. Therefore, it is simply not right to base your reasoning on a negative view as just some kind of expense, but not at the same time as the payment for the work done. However, if we link the debate with the previous point on the value of judicial protection, we see that a hundred or about one hundred, my colleague corrects me, a hundred sentences have been delivered. But since there is no judicial protection, we estimate from this address in the National Party that it is not possible to turn its back on these people or show them to Parliament. From this title, of course, we hope that you will support and be able to do so, and the emphasis now is on the sovereignty of voting that you will support these around 100 people who have done work in the past on the basis of the Treaty, on the basis of the commitment, on the basis of the rights and responsibilities of working relations. And the emphasis is to "do" the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. First of all, I take note of the Minister's promise that, in any case, he will, on a legally correct path, solve the problem that he recognises. At that, let me just say two. The most legal right way is the law, the more proper legal path I don't know. And if you were willing, you'd probably be able to save yourself within the framework of the law. However, if any other option is right, in any case we will be in our parliamentary group, but I believe that someone else will be watching whether it will be realized or not, or whether it will remain in the promise. Otherwise, there would be no misunderstandings, just a few opinions. All that Mr Brenčič said, I agree with him, and I will not repeat it because he has said clearly enough and also sufficiently affected. We would by no means want and would not allow anyone to define our debate as an attack on entrepreneurship. Far from it. Reverse. The proposal, as it is now prepared, does not have any connection with the threat posed by entrepreneurship. This is a matter of judgment and it is an obligation that the maintenance fund would have, it is said, no entrepreneurs would be at risk. We recognize that there are people among those who can be pensioners, entrepreneurs and the like. Just not this moment, Mr. Minister, to mix them with Article 4 and the amendments prepared, because this solution does not concern them and will not be affected by yours and anyone else's warnings. In the course of the debate, they have found a solution that will not be affected, although they might be with the original solutions. We don't want to try each other at the expense of one another. To talk about obligations already exist under the Law on the Protection and Maintenance Fund. That they exist, but they are different from those who are judged here in legal judgments. If you are counting on these workers to get only these rights, which are rights from the Fund, then they will get less or much less than is actually judged. And that's what you have to find out and admit, because it's only a three-month right there, and there's a lot more here. That's why I think there's a difference here. One more thing. You warn us that this amendment comes with a distinction between different creditors. Yeah, it's coming, but for legitimate reasons, because we're only handling the amendment as an example of those creditors who already have a legal address. And to say that there is a comparison between those who have a legal title and others who have not gone for many reasons and have succeeded in obtaining the legal title for execution, that is an equation. It's not an equation. This is a very different legal situation, which I think, if we do our best, also warrants a variety of solutions in marriage. That is why I would say, once again, I hope that we will also find a solution within the framework of the law, but in any case my first warning, which I originally gave, applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. There are some things I'd like to explain. If we do not adopt this law, these proposed amendments will remain in the state in which we are. We have heard and the suggestion is that workers who have already received lawsuits and all these things get that money. Maybe it's the right thing to do. We were talking about a million euros. I don't know if it's accurate or if it could be even bigger. However, the main claims in these systems are, of course, the state and the banks. The country, we have heard, is somehow writing down with the adoption of this law of 100 million euros. Banks are also in the midst of loans that have been lost in bad companies, perhaps some EUR 100 million. That is why I say that this situation needs to be changed. However, I would read Article 425 and Article 394 of the ZGD, which provides that the company may terminate after a reduced procedure without liquidation if all shareholders propose to the registration authority the removal of the company from the company register without liquidation and submit a decision to terminate after a reduced procedure and a notary certified declaration by all shareholders, that all the obligations of the company are paid, that all the relationships with the employees are settled and that they assume the obligation to pay any remaining obligations of the company. The claimants may claim the shareholders who made the declaration referred to in the preceding paragraph within one year of the publication of the removal of the company from the register. The debtors referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be held jointly by the shareholders with all their assets, as set out in the GAG, in the event of a short-term procedure proposed by the shareholders. The registration authority may request the shareholders of evidence of the authenticity of the declaration referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. For the commitment to pay debts, the registrant may also require other forms of debt. It is perfectly clear in our legislation governing this area that the matter is regulated. Example of a faster procedure of closure or deletion from the register. Here, however, we have a strange case in this article, as we have already said, which attempts to sum up in some way these precise provisions of the law on the SAG, which states in Article 4: "In the case referred to in the first paragraph of this Article, it is considered that the shareholders or shareholders of an economic company have made a statement as set out in Article 394, paragraph 1, and Article 495." This is one silence to the court, which issues decisions that with this fiction, here we have seen that there is a need for notarized certification, it is necessary to write that the company no longer has claims and all these things. Why, for God's sake, do these courts, according to some statistics, just after the current tape, pay these companies without checking whether or not they still have obligations? And we can't let that happen. And then, for exceptional cases, this is envisaged when shareholders wish to shut down or liquidate the company after the shortening of the process. So they have to guarantee all their assets. And here we're interpreting this, that after the official erasion, practically because of the fact that the state made it, these associates with all their assets, and nothing is determined how much, as far as anyone has, is practically going, and this is not where it started yet. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] There is practically one such hole, one such misunderstanding, one such misunderstanding of corporate law courts. [[...]] The court should not delete undertakings if they do not have [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] or all the shareholders do not sign them. [[...]] This fiction does not legally hold, it is not constitutional, without checking how much the company still has, but all of these things, liabilities. Why, there's no need. I would also like to say that, in this law, there were in some ways some other points where procedures are envisaged, because the company is insolvent that capital needs to be increased, discipline, liquidity measures to improve the liquidity that the administration owes. It is also envisaged, for example, if, after the disposal, assets are shown to be found, this article is already somewhere in the same place as it says that bankruptcy proceedings are to be initiated. Of course, only bankruptcy is when the court decides how much of the property belongs to whom. That's why we're really talking about things, but I don't know, it's incomprehensible to me that we can't and we don't want to understand these things that are completely on top of us. In fact, I think we would have done a great deal of damage further if we hadn't accepted it. I do not say what the judicial authorities have cooked, but they have issued decisions that they should not have if they closed the companies, thereby admitting that there are no claims. Based on this silence, then the shareholders will pay, which is not logical. Nowhere in the world can anyone who has invested in any company guarantee more than his stake. If everything goes somewhere, loses everything. But one can't sit down. This exception to early closure, which gives this opportunity with all the signatures of a notaryly certified matter, is placed here practically in such a way as to determine and impose on someone who has not signed anything, has not agreed with any matter, either with deletion or with any matter. Even if he received a notice of intention, it came to the head of the company. Maybe this company doesn't have a secretary anymore, no one has answered, and it's gone. However, someone may have replied that they were against the deletion, but the judge found that there was no reason to take that into account, but he did. What chaos they did with ignorance and all this, let the one who did it pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. A few things have to be repeated. For the first time, we are talking about the amendment to Article 4. Article 4 says nothing about corporate law and does not say anything about some of the other things that are currently being discussed. Second, as far as corporate law is concerned. This dilemma, this mistake, this defect of the old law solves Article 1. I don't know why there's so much discussion going on. These lectures on corporate law are unnecessary, we heard this two decades ago, me personally by Mark Simoniti and others who were the authors of this legislation back in the old Yugoslavia. Mr. Minister, I'm trying to understand what you'd like to say, but let me also understand, when you're talking about the amendment and about some of the workers and pensioners, there's still something to be said about these workers and these pensioners who have become so innocent, you mean, entrepreneurs for a couple of tolars, and then they set up d.o.o. That's not what we're talking about here. This amendment has nothing to do with it. I would like to point out that we are not speaking against corporate law and not against the partners, but simply that those who are actually admitted to this court, that they have lost something here, so we are defending them, we are trying to defend their rights. I think that if some have now become debtors under the direction of the State, according to the law adopted by the State, then the state must do so, not workers, not workers who have been paid. They can't pay that price. Let whoever did this pay her. I propose and guarantee to myself that we support this amendment, because this amendment does not speak in harm's way, it does not take anything from those you are trying to defend now and those who are members of it, under the 1999 law should assume their obligations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Minister, you were talking about speculative moments. I have previously listened carefully to you about false bankruptcys with a view to harming creditors and, of course, workers, and it is not fair that the amendment to Article 4, which states that the claims of workers who have ceased their employment relationship before the removal of the company, submitted under the Law on the Financial Operation of Enterprises or a recognised legal decision, are paid in full at the expense of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia". That would be very fair, and that's what this amendment is talking about. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have signed this amendment and it would be correct to take into account, of course, the expert opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that it deals with these provisions of the law is totally unacceptable as it interferes with the acquired rights of creditors. To the acquired rights of creditors! The decisions are legally binding, but they are not enforceable because it is not possible to refer the application to the addressee because it is not available. In this case, I believe in the good purpose of the Government, which was designed to prevent speculative moments and abuses in the economy, but these few cases should be taken over by the State if we are in a social state, respected colleagues and colleagues, and if the rule of law applies, we should also assume this responsibility. Therefore, I politely ask you to support this amendment, for it is really a fraction compared to what we throw through the windows of the trash - a basket of bread, a whole loaf of bread. I've told you cases before. I'd like to remind you once again of that conscience. Really, go take a look at the official data, and you'll see, in cases where the state acts irresponsiblely when it loses a lawsuit, and it gets essentially a certain Ministry of Recovery, it doesn't pay that amount, the public defenders, the state attorneys throw it away, they throw it in the trash and then there's a recovery, and it's going to be 100 times that amount. Or we write off public debt, and we write down the government's decision at some correspondence session of billions and billions, and no one asks who's going to pay for it. After all, we all pay for it. This goes to public debt and is paid by citizens and citizens and no one discusses it. But we're full of mouths when we're talking about hundreds of cases that represent a pass, but not those costs that I'm talking about right now. Just these costs. As has already been said, we will show that we have also given exemplary social partners and unions the opportunity to have a more frank and open dialogue and give them some way to know that they are not just social partners on paper. This is what happens every day when we say that we have an orderly social dialogue, and in fact we see that we have a well-voted decision in the negotiations by government representatives. I think it's a really small thing to do. As I say, once again I call for understanding. If it is not fair, it should be professional, if it is not professional, but at least look at the morals of your soul when you press the "for" or "against" button of this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you. I am opening a new round of application for discussion on Article 4 and on the amendment to this Article. There's no sign-in. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is on the third time a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the participation of officials in management. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr Strovs, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u124	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As has already been said, the draft law for third reading was prepared by the Government on the basis of the debate and amendments made at the meeting of this assembly at the end of January. All five amendments were taken into account in this regard, as set out. The law is ready for adoption and I can state that such a law on amendments and additions to the law on the participation of workers in management, as proposed for treatment and reception, would work for the benefit of workers and employers. There may be some changes in line with these decisions, but in the concept of the law along with this amendment, it could be useful to help overcome those doubts that have arisen after amendments to the company law, which introduced a single management system also into an economic society. We would also resolve some of the dilemmas with regard to the implementation of the Directives of the European Union in our area, which we have to comply with in accordance with European legislation. For this reason, I think it is appropriate that someone thinks well and discuss this proposal and resolve any dilemmas that remain open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views in full on the draft law. Mr Marijan Pojbič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u126	Your Honor! We have before us a proposal for a law on the participation of workers in a single management system, which has so far been regulated in the transitional provisions of the Company Act or in Article 703 thereof. With the support of the economic and professional public, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to propose that shares companies should be allowed to choose a single management system. It thus pursued the objective of establishing two comparable management systems and the choice of companies is most appropriate. The fact that the single management system of shares companies is the predominant management system between the Member States of the European Union should be stressed. The cooperation of workers in the management of the company's bodies shall be carried out in the draft law through representatives of workers in the management and control bodies of the company, namely in a single management system through representatives of workers on the board of directors and in its committees, and in certain cases they may also be through representatives of workers among the company's executive directors. The draft law provides that the number of employees' representatives on the board of directors of the company shall be determined by the company's statute, but that number of representatives shall not be less than one employee's representative on each of the three complementary members of the board of directors and the representative of the board of directors shall always be a shareholder's representative. The draft law also lays down the right of the Council of Workers to appoint workers' representatives to the board of directors. In certain cases, it shall also be possible for a representative of workers on the Management Board to become one of the executive directors appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Working Council. It should be stressed that the provisions on the participation of workers in a single management system do not apply to small companies, but that there is a possibility of a different agreement in individual small companies. The proposal to restrict the solution that small companies are not bound to apply the provisions of the law is not acceptable in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, as the proposal also introduces the same solution for companies with a single and two-tier management system. The arrangements so far did not allow the participation of workers in company bodies with a two-tier management system if the company did not have at least 500 employees and had no supervisory board at all. Of course, once again, I stress that they can agree differently in a small society. A small company is a company that meets two of the three criteria. The average number of employees in the business year does not exceed 50, net sales revenue does not exceed EUR 7 million 300 000 and the value of the asset does not exceed EUR 3 million 650 thousand. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, an employer-employee will certainly be assisted by a provision that, prior to the adoption of certain major statutory changes, the employer must inform and request a joint consultation with the Council of Workers. The amendment of the law will also regulate the participation of workers in the management of independent entrepreneurs, individuals, where the solution is in accordance with a directive allowing a threshold for the enforcement of these rights, as it provides that it applies to undertakings employing at least 50 workers or establishments employing at least 20 workers. We have also listened to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Employers of Slovenia, which reminds us that the saints of workers are an important entity in their work, but in particular in the promotion of individual companies, but on the other hand they also bring logical costs and obligations to employers. Independent entrepreneurs cannot be compared with large corporations, since usually for individuals or micro, often family companies where owners respond with their personal property, which is, in our opinion, a decisive difference that gives independent entrepreneurs a different role. After discussions with a number of independent entrepreneurs and employees there, we decided not to support the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group and the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group on Article 1 and 4 on independent entrepreneurs and on the protection of workers' representatives. It seems very important to me to point out that interviews with independent entrepreneurs and employees there have made it very clear that for the success of the company, regardless of its legal form on the market, it is not an important number and the creation of a labour council, but, above all, a legal basis that reduces the bureaucratic and tax burden on employers and the stimulating working environment for workers, it is a good and regular pay, regulated working time, mutual trust, investment in knowledge and so on. This is an important argument for the Slovenian Democratic Party Group why we will not support the amendments tabled. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that the proposal for a law is qualitatively ready and also Europeanly comparable. We are also pleased to have cooperated with the widest range of stakeholders in drafting the text and have listened to their needs and wishes in the vast majority. In view of all the positive developments it brings towards the participation of workers in the single management system, we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The right of workers to participate in management is defined in Article 75 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and further regulated in the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. The law was adopted in 1993 and amended in 2001. The fact is that the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management needs changes and additions, not only because of amendments to the Law on Economic Companies, but also because of compliance with the European legal order and, most importantly, because of the results of experts working in this area and which, based on empirical research, analyses, numerous initiatives and proposals on the implementation of the law in practice, find that the law needs to be upgraded so that it can be implemented in practice. The individual solutions to the existing law on the participation of workers in management, such as the so-called special law in relation to the Company Act, also concern the participation of workers in company bodies and are fully adapted only to the only two-tier system in force for the management of companies in force. As a result, there was an urgent need for appropriate legal arrangements for the participation of workers also in the bodies of companies with a single management system, which is now governed by the Company Act in Article 703. The amendments need to be achieved in order to ensure a constitutional principle of equality before the law, which means that the law must provide a solution so that workers in a company with a single management system can have a meaningful equal scope of rights of participation in company management. However, the consideration of the content of the second reading bill showed a very unusual attitude of the Government and some of the ruling coalition's parties to individual solutions. The mother labour body has adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 4 of the amendment and to supplement the law on the participation of workers in management, while the amendments adopted by the two government parties in plenary have eliminated all the substantive improvements achieved in the bill. Thus, at the meeting of the National Assembly, we witnessed the ignorant attitude of some coalition parties, which, despite the amendments, set out the draft law adopted at the meeting of the parent committee, returned the text of the proposal to the original state, that is, the text prepared by the Government. I would therefore like to point out once again that this is a re-examination of the servitude of the legislative branch of the executive branch and an incorrect attitude towards the functioning of the legislative branch of power. However, we, honourable Members, have today once again the opportunity to discuss the contentious articles of the draft text of the law and to adopt amendments to allow workers to participate in management. By adopting the proposed amendments, the content has already been adopted by the parent working body, we would show a positive attitude and understanding of the business essence of labour co-ordination and move away from, in our opinion, the wrong idea that it is to reintroduce socialist self-government. According to members of the LDS club, working participation in the conduct of businesses is a positive and even necessary condition to achieve the most competitiveness and performance of companies. We are also convinced that achieving business success in today's dynamic, economic and social change can only be achieved with a positive attitude towards human resources and sources of knowledge, so to the best possible integration of human potential in individual companies. In doing so, we would also like to draw attention to the concerns expressed that the envisaged forms of co-management do not affect the autonomy of owners and management in the design and implementation of business policy. The dictatorship of Article 1 of the bill in the current content shows the already known fact that the European minimum for our government has become the maximum. This law has thus reemerged the weakness that this Government has laid down with directives and other European regulations and is the European minimum for our Government to achieve the maximum. This reconfirms the fact that we are not capable of considering and making decisions that would lead to an increase in the rights to standards set by the European Union as minimum. The proposed provisions of Article 67 of the Law on the participation of workers in management, which severely interferes with the already established institution, the so-called occupational immunity of members of the Councils of Workers, and significantly reduces their level of protection against any harmful measures of the employer, are also unacceptable to the LDS Club. Finally, we would like to point out that, at the time of the preparation and adoption of the law, the Government did not show sufficient willingness to respond to a number of comments on the text of the law by both the professional and the public concerned. That is why we can actually talk today about the step back and the error of the text of the law, which could also have a significant negative impact on the performance of businesses and on the achievement of the best possible competitiveness of businesses. Therefore, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will only be able to support the bill if we adopt today additions that will enable workers to participate effectively in governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must very frankly admit that I am not entirely excited about the approach to dealing with laws that touch on the situation and rights of workers. Here, of course, I am also referring to the relation to this population at the previous point, when we discussed the financial business of companies. We always put them behind this scale and at the forefront of everything else and argue with quasi arguments that those who have an impact on the reduction of competitiveness are increasing the costs of businesses and so on. In the Social Democrats Group, we cannot be satisfied with the more than a year-long process of change and the law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses and with the product we have on the table today. In doing so, I would point out that one year ago, when we adopted a new company law in the National Assembly and in the transitional provisions of Article 703, a provision was also provisionally laid down for the co-ordination of workers with a single corporate governance system. At that time, a promise was made that the Ministry or Government would prepare a detailed and comprehensive proposal for the 14 - year - old Law. This promise was also a chronological argument by the then minister that the majority of the House of State, i.e. the coalition, rejected the amendment tabled by Members of the Social Democrats in the parliamentary procedure. Thus, the necessity and necessity of a more modern law on the co-ordination of workers were discussed at the time. However, the proposal we have received and have it on the table today proves that the time for a thorough overhaul of this law is moving toward the future. However, the changes that are proposed unequivocally, and I repeat again, undoubtedly, give much more satisfaction to capital and employers and much less or almost nothing to workers or employees. And it is to those who are called workers and employees, to whom this same law, which we are dealing with today, is intended. It is by this amendment that we take away certain powers and rights rather than the opposite. They are deprived of the word at the most crucial times when it comes to human resources issues, the status changes of the company when they sell, close, wind up and so on. We have heard a lot of clever words about this in the preceding paragraph. This is where employees are supposed to be given the opportunity to be informed. And this information is a force not defined in this law. Such a view and such an approach is in opposition and knowledge and trends in the countries of the European Union, by which we are so keen to imitate each other when it suits us. And many times this alignment with the norms of the European Union or the countries of the European Union is expressed for this speaker. Domestic and foreign research shows that participation has a positive impact on the company's business performance. Undisputedly, there is always a positive impact on the motivation and membership of employees. Today it is known that only those companies with highly motivated and employees can succeed. If the proposer, i.e. the Ministry and the Government, does not believe these findings, then let him ask, for example, companies that are in foreign ownership, not ours, in foreign ownership. And foreign owners weren't involved in self-management 15 years ago, the more you use this argument, let's say it's Lek or Savo Tires. In these companies, the participation of workers in the management of the company is not avoided, it is even less ashamed, and it is only to be opposed and to seek quasi arguments, as you do here in the National Assembly. Practice and knowledge have shown us that co-management is a benefit rather than a cost, both for the owner and for the management that runs the company. It is not a relic of the past from the period of self-government, as some politicians and political speculators try to label those who advocate European standards in this area as well. It is simply a constitutional right that has already been stated today, which has been very clear in its 75th Article: "Employers participate in the management of economic organisations and institutions in the manner and conditions laid down by the law." The end of the quote. And it is up to us Members and Members of the National Assembly to measure by our decisions what proportion of co-administration rights workers will receive. In the light of the assessments and findings made so far by the participation of workers in the management of Slovenian companies which are not bad, it is said that there is no valid reason to reduce the level of rights achieved in this regard. If someone has such a study with specific cases that have had a negative impact on the subject, they should come forward and present these arguments. No one has so far explicitly challenged the two-track management system, except in exceptional cases, and there is no reason for us to do so until now in the implementation of the single management system. More problematic is the fact that the applicant has not yet reached out, even though he promised it last February, and although that is not the case with the Constitutional Court's decision. Remember the referendum on RTV, where the Constitutional Court decided that we have an unconstitutional situation regarding the participation of workers in the management of institutions in our country. We only have co-operation in companies, and in institutions we use so-called individual collective co-ordination after elected working offices, which can only be regulated by collective agreements in institutions. And this collective agreement only regulates this in two areas. It's cultural activities and it's health-care activities. Everything else is in the air. In short, it is also a problem of inequality before the law when some have the right, even if it is distorted, and they do not have the right at all. It is precisely because as many employees as possible are guaranteed equality before the law that we propose in Article 1 that the lower limit of the number of employees in independent entrepreneurs from 50 to 20 should be changed, where workers set up a world of workers. There is no valid reason why companies of independent entrepreneurs should treat this law of co-management rights of workers differently from those of companies subject to Articles 8 and 9 of the same existing law in order to enable workers to set up a labour council if there are more than 20 employees with active electoral rights in society. Otherwise, they participate in the management of the so-called worker’s trustee. The argument that the S.P., which has been heard repeatedly about this speaker, answers with all its assets, is completely meaningless, as this also applies to some other companies. The essence of working together is exactly the same in all companies, irrespective of their legal and organisational form. It is also totally unacceptable for the Members of the Social Democrats to amend Article 4 of the current Article 67 of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which, in our view, is seriously interfering with the already established Institute of Labour and Legal Immunity of Members of the Council of Workers. This is a significant reduction in the level so far, ahead of possible bullying measures by employers. This also significantly reduces the effectiveness of the system of participation of workers in management. In fact, the argument that the applicant reiterates to disability in the National Assembly that the new Act on Labour Relations in its 113th Article is completely equivalent to that of the labour representatives is now regulated by Article 67 of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management. Article 113 protects workers' representatives exclusively and I repeat them exclusively against possible criminal pardons, but not all other acts of bullying that would be harmful to them. Harmful in terms of, as I have said several times, Article 1 of Convention No 135 explicitly requires that workers' representatives must be effectively protected from all such behaviours of employers, including from various forms of transfer and similar measures, if they are too loud or stubborn in their verbal defence of the rights that go to employees on the basis of positive labour legislation. Unless, of course, the applicant or the one who advocates this solution in this National Assembly, you try to accommodate the kimows and employers in this way as workers' representatives. Then, of course, it's a completely different story. This may, of course, be a legitimate mockery in the procedure for the adoption of law, but far from legality and moral similarity. In short, the possibility of using the Institute of Cancellation with the offer of a new contract is therefore an ideal instrument whereby employers in practice can, at the mercy of their own volition, bully potential disruptors and loud labour representatives. This is a key problem which requires the maintenance of existing protection. In the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, it is also unnecessary and unjustified to abolish the consent of the Council of Workers and some of the employer's possible chicanosical decisions, such as the reduction of wages, disciplinary responsibilities and other actions of a member of the Council of Workers, if you are too disturbed by your publicity. So far, this is the only serious marriage mechanism that will ever come to an end. They won't have any more protection. Only then will anyone else be willing to expose themselves in any way as a worker’s representative if it can only harm him if he has no legal protection. So, as I have already said, perhaps this has been deliberately done by the proposer to get as many loyal and noxious workers as possible against the boards of companies as possible in the future. Or to express myself with the current political rhetoric in this National Assembly that employers will also be given compatible workers. Of course, because of all that has been said in the Group of Social Democrats, we cannot support such a law and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Drobnič on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u132	Welcome, Members of Parliament and representatives of the Government! The New Slovenia Group is committed to co-management of workers and therefore to the content of the law, but, as it is aware that the participation of workers in the management, the "management" of the company, contributes to increasing the motivation of all employees and to the success of the company. This is certainly also in the interests of the owner and normally of workers, as such a principle is in the direction of modern management, development and competitiveness of companies. However, the company's well-being is the biggest factor in job stability and social security for workers. However, co-management is not an instrument for the enforcement of workers' rights, at least not in the majority. The scope of rights depends on the basis of the system of labour relations, in particular the authentic, wise and reasonable functioning of trade unions, in negotiations with employers, in the context of the social wage dialogue. Workers' rights must be at the forefront of union workers' representatives, not in the interests of their headquarters. Business management must be balanced between economic interests and social responsibility. Breaking this balance in one direction or another has bad consequences either for social security or for causing the withdrawal of entrepreneurs and investors. Certainly, however, the law does not allow you to go to an area of authentic ownership rights that play a role in terms of business interests, investments on which economic performance is actually based. In the process of examining the law, an attempt has been made to restrict the owners' fundamental ownership rights, which are the basis of entrepreneurship and also their responsibilities to society. I am talking about a proposal submitted on the parental committee that any owner of an undertaking or trade should ask for or ask for the permission of the workers' council or that he should set up a subsidiary or even sell shares. Such proposals are highly controversial and constitute a step back from the system we had in socialism. This would mean that the craftsman must also ask the worker about what he will do with his trade, even though the craftsman bears responsibility, employment, with all his personal belongings, but not the employees. Such a solution would establish the problematic behaviour of our country and the withdrawal of investors from Slovenia and the causing of great damage. It is good that foreigners were not familiar with such proposals that were played in the Republic of Slovenia. In practice and in public, the functions of co-management and representation of workers are replaced in the negotiations. This gives rise to wrong expectations. Among other things, by setting up, for example, a Labour Director, that rights by setting up a Labour Director are already guaranteed, which of course does not correspond to the facts. This may mean, in a number of cases, an alibi for employers who then make decisions that are contrary to the interests of workers. It can only be a mimicry. The union's position is that we've never had such weak protection for workers before. And on the other hand, finding that the union is now the strongest. That's illogical. Or something is wrong with workers' representatives, with unions that may care more about their headquarters. It is therefore better that workers, as far as the exercise of rights is concerned, rely primarily on the consistent conduct of state authorities, inspections and others and ensure the swift resolution of disputes in the courts. We will support the law in the parliamentary group. So a law that is consistent with the social partners and also respects European standards. However, we do not support the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I do not intend to discuss this bill for a very long time and to discuss it extensively, because much has been said in the first reading, that I do not speak too much, given the content of this law in the second reading of the amendments. I would like to say, however, that the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the law, and that is only or can I say it primarily because we are coordinating with this law a matter that we are obliged to reconcile. This is meant to harmonise this law with some of the supervisory matters related to this law in the Company Act. A few words anyway. The business success or viability of the company, of each company, depends to a large extent on the genuine internal feeling, both the owners, the managers, the administrations as well as the employees. And people who work as humans are created free beings with their opinions and actions. And for an employee, who thinks that only a fixed-term employment decision is enough, a minimum wage or something more, is too little, which requires, in this sense, the establishment of a genuine partnership, which is one of the primary principles of modern European society, is the establishment of a partnership, a genuine partnership. And to talk today about the fact that an entrepreneur, entrepreneurship is the only brightest thing we have as a society may be right, without it it is not possible, or that we have one moral sanctuary in a number of entrepreneurs, and on the other hand, an immature, unenlightened people of employees, has survived. I was in the real sector so that I could judge differently. Therefore, I say that the entrepreneur who sees in the beloved working representation, in the holy workers as a partner, not only for the wages he receives, but for the sake of internal cohesion, a dangerous man, is afraid to find consensus in this loved body on the issues he may wish to enforce through the representative of these loved people. If this is feared, it is not worth entrepreneurship in a modern world where man is either an individual or an entrepreneur or an employee. I therefore argue that I do not want to discuss extremes that people are burning, workers and employees, businesses to oppose the owner, to join a subsidiary or to buy another company on the market somewhere and thus expand and strengthen, these are the banal things that people are able to discuss here again. However, I would like to say that without internal cohesion there is no successful and modern entrepreneurship. Therefore, all that we want to say is that, for God's sake, it is only fair and correct that in some of the key matters relating to the working representative, insofar as he carries out his mission in the expectation of those who have chosen him, it is necessary to seek protection in this sense in terms of agreement in such procedures in those who have chosen him. I am therefore firmly convinced about all the modern, monstrous debate on the sanctity of entrepreneurship, that by introducing this into Article 4 this law is only more modern, more corrective, more European. Those who do not know this should be placed in the system of regulatory regulation of the co-management of workers in the management of the company in the German system, in order to see confirmation in this law as one would like to see. I firmly believe that this can only make the marriage better. Every employer, every owner of an undertaking that values his life, his abilities, given to him at birth and so on, will appreciate his employee with all efforts, not in the sense that he will give him a contract for a certain period of time, that he will postpone it as a piece of bricks tomorrow and not give him the minimum that positive legislation gives him in terms of payment for his work, a good manager, a good entrepreneur has well-paid employees and satisfaction as an internal cohesion in the company and this manager has a perspective. Everything else is sooner than later condemned to die as it was present at the previous point, in the previous law, which we then want to remedy again in a kind of hard way. It is clear, however, that I will not predict for the Group of Members, and I certainly support both entries in Articles 1 and 2, because this only improves the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues. I hope to be the shortest of all, really, it's been said too much in the first, second reading. The law speaks of the participation of workers in governance; today we have heard a lot of behavior and knowledge in presentations, but very little has been said about the essence of this law, so on the involvement of workers in management. Since 1993, this law has been changing, changing, it has now been 13 years, but we have finally managed to bring it to the third reading, but, of course, with that classic reed of some, we are going straight. Discussing what is, what is not, what is not, what is the current system, what is capitalism, what is socialism, what is a single system, what is a two-tier system, of course, because we are not here to teach or probably not already experts from this. It is, however, that we seek and find in this law the opportunity and right of workers to participate in management. That's the point of this marriage. I, with all due respect, have been following this law all along, still see, at least on some segment that still, after three arguments, workers still do not have the basic right to cooperate. Why? Because, once again, Slovenia is small, Slovenia has the largest number of companies, which are 50 employees, that is the point. Once again, it's a great law, you calculate 72% of all companies is those who have 49, 48, 30 or less employees, and it's a great system to say and make a condition in Article 1 50 people and dots. Clearly, this automatically gives you 68% of businesses that can do what they want. The worker has no right because there are 37 or 22 of them, the right to participate in management do not have and, "bye". Come on, work, if it doesn't work for me, go. All right, I say go if you don't want to work if you're lazy if you're doing bad. But if you're doing a good job, if you're doing a good job, have a right and say, "I'm not going!" You don't have it. Because you're not here. Because you're only 27 in the company and you don't have that right, because you don't have the right to manage, dot, dot. The second point, which is not in this law again, is in Article 4. The authors of this law avoid the words "consent", i.e. consent that the worker can, must give, consent if the employer forgives or deprives someone. I don't know what you're afraid of. The law is clear. Someone can be deprived of their salary if he's on sick leave or if he hasn't come to work. Someone can be deprived of their rights if they've been violated. However, it cannot be depreciated simply, and simply because of the invention, the pure invention of the owner of the company, it cannot be. The owner of the company, the owner, the private one, in this process, as far as I know the managers, we behave like England 350 years ago. England was building capitalism and a system like 400 years old, and we think we're going to build it in 15 years. We know we have to go one way through. And this road should have some security guards. And no, even the words "consent" to give the workers consent if someone happens to be wronged, that is, consent to be deprived of one or another thing, no. And the worst part is that the author of this law is exemplary in Europe. And I'm repeating myself again, that's not true. European legislation which provides for the participation of workers in management is not legislation that is above national law, is neither, nor is it. And there's no god to prove to me that it is, so don't talk. However, if we want to, I will tell you in my own way if we follow the example of employers' rights, entrepreneurs' rights, across Europe, and then give workers the right and give them European wages. Oh, no! Regardless of the fact that these gentlemen, the modern-day managers, the owners of businesses, deserve billions. Yesterday was a beautiful picture of these "poor" gentlemen, who, of course, with hard work and effort, came to this money, which I believe in proponents, and we give a poor man a Slovenian salary, three times below the average of Europe, but we demand that he abide by European rules. We're not that stupid, gentlemen. The Slovenian national party, specifically on her behalf Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, again, I do not know which time, has tabled two amendments. If the author of this law has an honest attitude towards the participation of workers in management, then our amendment will be adopted. 50 or 25. Let's write 25. Of course, it will not be accepted because it will allow half of 68% of businesses to suddenly get control of workers or the right of workers to manage. If a fair relationship is why 25 is instead of 50 in Article 25. The same rules of the game, only the number decreases. Of course he won't be accepted. But I hope there's, at least, a little bit of sense in some people. And the other is to give the opportunity to agree to restrict certain rights, or to agree that the employee agrees with the employer or agrees with the employee. Consent is the point. It is not possible, without the consent of the Council of Workers, to cancel the employment contract, for example. What's the fear and trembling here? I'm sure no one among honest workers will protect a worker - a lazy man. Because everyone has to do what is right, and whoever does what is right instead of the employee - the lazy one, will never give his consent that the employer, the lazy one, will not forgive him. Every worker will say, "Yes, thank God, forgive him, for I work for him!".. This is how it goes, and these two amendments are purely, totally, the essence of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the participation of workers in management. I stress: the participation of workers in management! Only two small amendments, which make no substantive changes, give more workers the right to co-decision in management, given the number 50 or 25 and give workers the opportunity to agree. Otherwise, I suggest we recast the law, and we will demand in one article that workers be guaranteed European average wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag has a word. Mr Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u138	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! The DeSUS Group will support this law and will also support both amendments relating to the size or number of employees in companies, independent entrepreneurs and, of course, to the protection of workers' representatives in companies where they are appointed. We support the amendment that proposes 20 employees, because it is not known that workers' representatives for any company would be dangerous because it is in their life's interest that the company succeeds and provides them with work and bread for a longer period of time. On the contrary, we are convinced that the defence of employers or employees in this case is justified by selfish motives, although not by those who understand that the growth and success of the company depends on the work of the employees and their right to co-decision, at least in the modest form that this institution of employee representative in the companies provides for. Those who don't think so are going to make quick profits in a short time, in an account, and in a worse position as employees. As for the fact that the S.P.s guarantee with all their assets, let's just say that it's necessary to take your mind into your hands sooner than it gets so far as to go to some firm on a drum. They are unable to run a company in the long term and do not represent jobs or good jobs and it is therefore better to dry up, as is the case all over the world in the market economy. Responsibilities of S.P. to workers, if they do not have a working representative, are practically none. And in this situation, if the amendment is not corrected, 90% of all employees in the st.p.s, because the number of those who have more than 50 employees is something 10, among other things, those who have less than 50 employees, 180 or more. By thinking that the fear of co-governing workers is groundless, it actually means the fear of the one who knows why the worker is afraid. These are those who have quick earnings in their pocket and, of course, do not say, the eclectic exploitation of employees with the threat of forgiveness if they do not accept any conditions, any wages and here and there also waive those rights that are entirely natural in the ordinary business world and all employees. So that we think it is impossible to assume that in large companies working together can lead to better company management and long-term development, and in small enterprises this assumption suddenly comes up with unexplained reasons, which, of course, we cannot agree with. We think that there is still some interest in these small companies in workers to survive, that the company is doing well, because they know that their higher wages will only be possible from the successful operation of the company and I must say that I know entrepreneurs who said that without their employees they would have failed long ago if they did not find a solution together when the problems were when production stopped, due to problems in the manufacturing process or when it was necessary to find solutions for the introduction of new products from a small company that is more flexible and the entrepreneur himself would not have been able to do so without his own professional employees. By supporting the law with these amendments together, and we think that it will only be better and we are happy and pleased that many others in this House think similarly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A full discussion is under way on the proposal for a law. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I would like to point out only two things that I do not understand, although I do not understand the seemingly positive views expressed by the coalition regarding the participation of workers in management, while at the same time their view is that this is good, but that it is only good for companies with more than 50 employees, but not with a smaller number. For me, in this position, illogicality is absolute. Because if it is beneficial for companies with multiple employees, it is certainly also beneficial for a company with more than 20 employees. No one can see that we want to ensure co-management in family companies, which was evident in the second reading. Today, we have made these amendments very clear and said that there are no companies with 20 employees of such families, because family companies are indeed with some employees. And if they were right and believed in co-management, then we would have made that decision. And second. Article 4 and the amendment propose amendments to it precisely because this article is indeed a fundamental violation of the fundamental right of a member of the Council of Workers, whether to be dismissed or not, in order to act as a member of the Council of Workers, it is clear within the framework of the law. But whether you are employed or not, it is a fundamental right that is greater than any other, and therefore it seems to me that it is a major degradation and a significant reduction in the possibility of its operation if, because of its work and views as a member of the workers' council, it is possible to forgive it without the consent of the workers' council and this is the essential content of our amendment. I don't understand that the government and the government coalition can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The key issue in the third reading amendments is the representation and impact of workers in societies. I would like to point out that the fact that we are dealing with such important amendments in the third reading is also the result of a fig tree in our pocket when, at a certain point in time, certain promises have turned and, in the interim stage, when it seemed already that the law would satisfactorily resolve these issues, returned to what the Government actually had at the very beginning of the hotel. In short, there was a trick that we are now trying to correct and that is why we will support these amendments or the intentions of these amendments. It is particularly important to me Article 4 and Article 67, where the labour and legal immunity of members of the Council of Workers is established. It is precisely because I think that, in so far as it is formulated in Article 4, the amendment, either the SD Group of Members or with a somewhat limited form of SNS, could provide some kind of immunity to members of the workers' council and thus remove those pressures that may in fact be in the background. It would ensure greater independence for members of the workers' council, since it is logical that, as long as these members are under pressure to remain under pressure, if they do not act kindly for those who follow certain interests, they may be subject to forgiveness or worse. And then it's not far from the situation that, in parallel circumstances, we meet at every step today, when the disgruntled, or minority, get out of certain bodies, let's say, we remember how the employees in the newspaper of Delo have left their positions in the Dela supervisory council or how, if I mention the last case, journalists, say, in the Primorski news, find out about changes in their editorial policies only through the cologne or where the responsible editor is setting up just past the law, of course, with the appropriate support of the political bots. Undoubtedly, it is not a matter of shielding or covering, as we hear today. Unless the solution proposed in the amendments we support in the proposed amendments remains, the vulnerability of these members would, of course, be increased and consequently the quality of the companies themselves which would not have seen and had no security in their representative and in his views. For this reason, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to leave this solution, in the end it is not an absolute protection, because it is also an intermediate consensus of the members of the Council of Workers, and therefore it is logical that, in the absence of or the absence of such a safeguard, the vulnerability, as I have already said, will be so much greater and thus the possibility of influencing representatives will be significantly more threatening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the next one, I would like to remind you that there is a debate on the draft law on the whole and not the amendments. So I would like to ask that we discuss the law in its entirety. Later, we have a debate on individual amendments. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It has certainly been a warning in place, but when we talk about the law and when we talk about whether the law is adopted or not, of course our announcement is reflected in this too, or whether the amendments will be adopted or not, it is true that it is all connected. I would also like to say that the time together is one way or another for the debate on the law as a whole and on the amendments, so that there is no significant difference, since we Members have a time in common within the parliamentary group. I fear that in all these legislative changes, some people are looking at this arrangement from the wrong end. They are looking at the assumption that employees in business management are merely disruptive, undesirable factors, just as those that will make it impossible for them to do business, just as those who have a basic interest are only paid and only those who are seen by capital owners, as costs that can be slightly higher, slightly smaller, and if you have the power and the ability to manipulate and bully them, of course, costs can be lower because you always keep them on the line if you do not want them as we think that we have capital and are the owners of businesses, those doors out there are always open. Therefore, it is important that we look at this arrangement from the right point of view. This morning we have spent quite some time talking about the immunity of Members and Members. And some firmly believe that it is necessary to ensure irresponsibility, not to punish Members for insults, even for all the rest, which is, unfortunately, an integral part of the speech in this House. But when we talk about employees, when we talk about how they can forgive these people and that it is not too good for them to be able to co-manage, and here our sense of responsibility is shrinking. And we are willing to settle matters very simply by writing in the title of the law on co-ordination, and in the text of the law, we will try to make this co-ordination as little as possible. The adoption of this law, which regulates the participation of workers in management, thus also reflects the attitude of us in the National Assembly and through us also the responsibility and attitude of the State towards the position of employees. These must be the weaker side in the relationship between work and capital, which is becoming stronger or in the relationship between workers and employers. It is already clear to almost everyone in this world that the development of society cannot rely only on the protection of the interests of capital and that it is the development of the company, I will not repeat the words of respected colleague Brenčič, who spoke about the importance of what relations within the company are, how important it is or goes between the owners of capital, between employers, and, on the other hand, workers for confidence or the common interest of the company's progress. How important these things are when we want to build people's sense of belonging and how important it is that people are pleased to come to work and contribute their share to make this company a success. These are important matters and laws should ensure that these interests of employees are also protected in order to protect a weaker article in this chain. The employees are more reliably weaker than the capital owner. A frightened and unprotected worker can't be a vehicle for development, I hope we're all already clear. So, belonging to the company is built in a way that invites people to cooperate, to co-operate. And those who know what development is and those who have already heard about spiritual capital are certainly thinking about it, without how to attract employees to increase added value as much as possible. And the amendments that have been tabled certainly improve this text, so perhaps, as the Vice-President of the National Assembly has said, about the amendments later. But it is very important whether these amendments to Article 1 and Article 2 will be adopted. It will probably also depend on the further fate of this law, although I am sure that, unfortunately, it is about how and in what way to co-manage in our country has already been decided. And unwittingly, it brings back to my mind the law that we have rejected twice in this National Assembly, which is the participation of employees in the division of profits. And this marriage, once again, is not there. I suggest to the Government that we seriously consider when this law is being drafted, and the predictions are that in this year we should see the light of the world, otherwise we will re- table it by the Social Democrats, because we have also announced that what you then write in the title of the law is, in fact, reflected in the text of the law. But I'm a little scared, given the experience of how this story is going to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u146	Dear Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues! What I'm about to say, of course, is not so much for you to vote on this law for a while, because we've actually seen this road run. This is intended primarily for those who will bear the consequences of this law and especially for those who will bear the negative consequences of the adoption of this law, these are workers. Workers, of course of all kinds, I do not think that in Slovenia now there is such a situation that we have only manual workers, that we have only a proletariat, which you so despise, but that we have, of course, now, especially in small businesses, including highly educated workers, who are very intelligent, who are very educated and who know very well what they are doing. In particular, this applies to small enterprises, those that we consider to be pulsative, innovative, and those who will give our name to Europe. On the other hand, of course, we have owners who are sometimes such or different. I, of course, already at the basic idea, say in the basic sum of this law I see mainly the will, the desire for people to be divided again and again. To divide them into two classes, which, of course, live in battle, in hatred, thus making it easier to rule. Moreover, such a law creates a state that you so praise that our space will now be more acceptable to all foreign investors and so on and so on, of course, on the altar you put it back on the workers - creators, because it will be easier to exploit them because it will be easier to bully them, because it will be easier to do the mobbing or what is called this harassment and teasing, lately, or if it does not, they will be forgiven. So a worker, a Slovenian worker or a Slovenian worker, will be in a much worse position than in other countries of Europe. So that's how you're invited! Come in with the meat! On the other hand, this same one speaks about how people should be protected in our country, how they should be better off, how everything is fine. Above all, boast that Germany is doing well, that we are clear at this moment, and that is why economic growth is so much bigger. Let something collapse there, we'll see what weather you will then boast of meteorologists. That's the problem now. And it is certainly necessary to support all those amendments that raise this level or preserve some of the things we have already had in Slovenia. That's what this is about. The establishment of camps, blocks within Slovenia, I believe it benefits the current government and the ruling one. But surely this is not good for Slovenia, not for the middle hand, but for the long hand. So I think you should reconsider those who have actually gone through a diversion to change the amended law, an amended law that was even better than what we now have before us. If the amendments are not adopted, we will vote against it in the Liberal Democracy, this can be quite clear to you. And think of people, not just those who work, even their families, and so on. This somehow excludes companies from co-management, not just businesses, even a number of people, from the whole layer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. In my opinion, co-ordination of workers is very important for every company and I am sure that every manager, every owner of the company, as well as every small entrepreneur, is very well aware of this, because its success is certainly dependent on the good or bad work of the employees. I have to say that it is a shame that we have to adopt such a law in the National Assembly, I say this on my own behalf, in my own opinion, as I do somewhere very difficult to accept, that we have had to adopt laws that speak of women's quotas, because, in my opinion, these are things that are self-conceived and I will say again, every good entrepreneur will try to introduce this co-management into their companies. And I'll say, if not for the other, for my own good. I must admit that I very much liked my colleague Bojan's debate, because I am thinking very similarly about the importance of what kind of workers are in companies, large or small. And as I have walked a little more in recent years, I must say that I am very surprised at how much belonging workers have to certain companies. And I'm going to say, workers with very low wages, but they feel such a strong connection, belonging to this company. He doesn't even think about moving to another job to move because he feels such a strong affiliation. Companies, good companies, can make very good use of this co-management, any good proposal that comes from the smallest worker. When I walked across Siemens Bosch Halls in Nazareth, I saw employers, managers were encouraging workers to work together, looking for new opportunities. Every small, minor change proposed by a worker in one place tries to respect and reward these matters, both with pay and with additional incentives. I will say one more thing before Mr Barovic spoke a little about this, which I think is very important. I say the worker's main right is to work well and get a good salary for this work. The emphasis is primarily on good pay. All too often it is still, with us as Barovic thought, on the one hand we are in Europe, both with work and with good work, but let us also do that that wages will be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. It is certainly in the first place the interest of workers to receive timely wages, to be worthy of them and to be satisfied with working standards. This, of course, is difficult to ensure by co-ordination, provided by other laws and by other means of regulation. The co-operation, as has already been highlighted at first, which I have highlighted in my presentation, is mainly a contribution, including to workers, to co-managing the company, to its successful leadership, to its stability and thus to the stability of jobs and prospects. This is an emphasis on co-management. The rest, however, is the task of trade unions to negotiate on a general level for decent wages and for a certain level. Conflicting interests are not good. We had, say, a very strong negotiating position in the former darkness. Unions are well organized, but there is no conflict. That is why modern managers introduce co-management because it is in the best interest of all. Not because we would wait for this National Assembly to adopt this law. He who is smart has done so, but certainly not in such a way as to ensure the opposite trends and opposing interests, which in the end also mean harm to workers. Co-ordination cannot replace those fundamental rights of workers and ensure, in particular, the state, state authorities, inspections. However, the level of these rights is negotiated, and of course something is also within the framework of the rules adopted in the National Assembly. Compared to Germany, I would not work because Germany is before reforming its labour market system and prefer to follow countries that have a more modern working relationship, as well as the participation of workers in management, so that they can face these most modern challenges and these most modern challenges are not only easy and where everyone acquires something but are difficult because they can also be lost. So, I believe that the law is going in the right direction, we are enforcing European standards, and as such, in the accompanying version, let us also accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna use another word of what I said in my introduction that I'm a little sad and a little surprised, but I have to, otherwise I can't sit in this National Assembly. I have to say that even now, when I listened to the former minister, I thought that we had already passed some logic of thinking and "feeling" of this humanity's processes through history and that we are living now in the 21st century, where people, regardless of social status, regardless of the status, when we are born, where we are placed in the social hierarchy, we are trying to achieve quality of life, psycho and social balance, somehow looking for that middle line. But it reminds me more and more, and I have already mentioned this twice, it reminds me more and more of a strategy and the essence of some kind of mercy policy that we introduce through the laws that we adopt in this National Assembly, mainly by the Ministry of Labour, Social and Family. Just as all those who go to work get paid, go to a doctor, they have to be, in order for them to get it, this service, this service, they get, they thank someone, they have to worship someone mercifully. Whether it is the Minister or it is the Government or it is the State which made it possible for him to do so by law and, on the other hand, it is not recognized to him that it is in fact a service, that he himself has earned by means of his knowledge, with his ability to contribute to the development and prosperity of this society or to this narrower environment. And that's why I'm kind of, I'm not going to say hurt, but that kind of talk just throws me off track. You're listing the companies that went into liquidation and bankruptcy where the sole culprits were workers. Give me a list. Then this argument of yours is accepted by me. I didn't hear that until today. Third thing. Both of the amendments we have today, which are indeed a minimum amendment - because those who are against these two amendments are against Article 1 and against 4, 67. - do not look at the other angle. That these two amendments are for the benefit of the owner and the management, for all this feeling that you said that in some environment it must work, that workers also take part of the responsibility for the perspective, prosperity of the same company, directly under this legislation. Why do you always look on the other side, negative, how they're going to tease the owner or the management in the company? And last of all, fellow Members and Members, I ask you, you are the managers of this National Assembly, in this building, and also here are the employees, and I ask you, as manager, I know that he owns Gregorčičev, this is the Government, which with the largest owner, this is the Minister of Public Administration, who does the substantive Law on Public Servants. How much do you take care in this house in relation to employees who are not in this hall, who are left, how much do you perform this function, which you are talking about today, that this is supposed to be and is supposed to be happening in companies? Each one of you should ask yourself how he does this function. And when you tell me a little of your experience from this interaction with the workers in this house, that they are positive, that everyone is satisfied, that no one is missing, that they are satisfied with their wages, that they are satisfied with their working hours, all that you now say and charge. Then of course I'll believe you, but until you prove it to me, I can't believe it. So once again, take these two amendments as a favour to the owner, to the capital and to the individual company or to the company to go to use, I don't know what kind of expression, a better future to the contrary. And one more thing, just for the end, and I have to say to the former minister, the biggest mistake is if you don't realize for yourself that you've done or made mistakes. A far more serious mistake is your firm insistence and your conviction that you can never be wrong. And my opinion is that the proposal, the basic content of this law, is a kind of mistake. There is no need, no reason to reduce the level of these co-management rights that workers in Slovenia have. I haven't heard any reason before.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, Mr Kumer, to answer what you have asked the ruling Members and Members, as far as I understand you. As far as good managers are concerned, within the framework of the state administration, I hope you know, but I believe you know, and I believe that other Members and Members also know, and at the same time, the employees of the state administration feel that good managers under the tactics of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, have accepted forgiveness without false reasons. Be it under the name of good, modern managers or whatever you want. But these are the facts, the fact that workers need to be summoned as much as possible and subjected to terror. And I'm not saying that all the workers are good, far from it. But the fact is that it is all workers who fall under this terror and that is precisely why, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have two amendments tabled today. The two amendments, which in fact return, if you want, not least to the text of the law, to that basis which has already been approved in the framework of the National Assembly or adopted in the home labour body, which has also been attached by the person who is with us today, by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Secretary of State at this Ministry. And, you know, when I heard words about good workers, about employers, how honest employers are, how employers take into account the co-management of workers. Really? I'm asking or really? On behalf of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, be careful on behalf of the Ministry, we are not talking about the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Finance, we are talking about the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Is this really what the Ministry writes and adopts, specifically this law, because all employers are good and honest and take into account workers in co-management? No, it's a law that protects workers. Protection for workers that they will have legal certainty if you want, without being able to be dismissed for false reasons just because they do not sit, I don't know, by political function or by any means. And you know, it's sad how proud we are, how workers feel, even those with the lowest wages that don't even reach any social minimum. How proud they are to be members of a company, despite their low wages. We must not be satisfied with this; our desire must be and we must strive to be satisfied because they have been paid fairly for their hard work. This must be the goal of this government and this Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues. And not least, when some refer to how Slovenia cannot follow a German model. And let's follow a Swedish model or a system that is better than a German. And last but not least, the amendment we proposed in the Slovenian National Party - in particular the Swedish model - regarding co-management within independent entrepreneurs, if you will, or businesses. I may conclude just or only one more matter when I am also today by the former Minister - I will stress once again - about work, family and social affairs, that we have other institutions in our country that are concerned about the protection of workers when violations occur. He mentioned inspections. Yesterday we also listened to the same man, how and why the inspections were ineffective. Why, then, do we go away in those laws that offer or give opportunities for legal protection, or why do we erase the rights or protection of those workers? The fact is, colleagues and colleagues, that in these companies, whose key objective, if you want, is profit, there are major violations at the expense of the labour force, even in the state administration there are many violations, I hope to say that from this place because I know. I know the measures that have been taken if you want, under this government, but do not follow some guidelines of recognized, good management. Far from it! Therefore, think again and truly, when we decide on the two amendments, support the amendment, which, by the way, is ultimately in the best interest of the person representing the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This week we confirmed the Minister without a charter, which based his programme on three key points: creativity, entrepreneurship and self-confidence. In my performance at the time, I said that the Government on this platform is defending and representing some kind of public opinion curtain, while the actions show that are going in large areas in the opposite direction. How, then, can we today understand that a minister without a charter to lead a government development service can legitimately justify serious thinking in creating conditions for creativity? How to understand this, on the one hand, is that creativity requires a very narrow circle of people, while a large number of others can be excluded and we do not want to have them in co-management processes. Is this not an interesting step towards achieving one and achieving another goal? When I add confidence to this, do we think we are telling employees in Slovenia today: Be confident when you have something to say, say it! Yes, because if someone understands this by making you want to harm, you will have a security guard so that you can defend your own purposes as well. No, today we do not want to tell people what this government wants to sell through the re-stage of the minister without a license: Slovenians and Slovenians have confidence. What a degree of confidence and where, if in another real field, and these fields are large, we say: If you lose your job and accidentally register on the job market, you will be there because you do not want to work! A very clear message about how we want to shape our confidence. If you find yourself there, not on your own fault, but you will have to accept, regardless of what your education will be, a few steps in terms of your education lower work. Re-examination of confidence. Now that we combine this on one side of this big divide and we combine them into entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship, where we have management on one side, owners who will know everything that is necessary and good for this company, and on the other hand those who would like to have to co-create, co-form, manage for the benefit of all, put in the role of border workers: you come, do and leave. If there's a "cage" on any wall for your initiative, it'll be welcome. But I don't think there's going to be a "cagel" in which you're putting some good idea of yours in a company like this. I think we should give me a different message, especially the government and this Parliament. We are the ones who inspire trust, confidence and dialogue. How interesting it is to listen to the former Minister of Labour today when he says: There is no conflict. Then I ask myself, Mr President of the Government, what was your argument that you had replaced him - just that you were regulating, Mr Minister, things with conflict. Social dialogue has not been established! Then I wonder who's crazy here. For speaking in a way and not understanding what we are saying is, I mean, underestimating in this house and would not want to give anyone this characteristic, but today we are talking about whether we are going to establish such a relationship between employers and between workers who will create a partnership and strengthen dialogue. The messages we give to put the law back substantially on what we have already had and what we have been cultivating, and this is not a simple process, of course, because dialogue is not an easy process. All of you who have been managers, directors or leadership, you know that coordination, dialogue is not an easy process, but it is one that is productive, dealing with human resources so that it can have the greatest possible effect. If we say that we are a knowledge-based society, if we are talking about the protection and development of human capital, human resources, then let us do so. If we have managed to find a common language for both the opposition and coalition Members in the Committee's dialogue, and perhaps we have also offered the Government a solution that is better, together with a professional who has been very thorough in preparing analyses of the consequences or measures that have been taken on the basis of existing knowledge, then let us make this effort, to include this in this stage in the third reading of this law, which we have already done. Two parties to this ruling coalition have tabled amendments in a second reading, which means that there are more thinkers for our proposals or proposals that we jointly advocate under these amendments than is a ruling coalition that supports this government. This means that these suggestions are "salt" have some content that many people in this house think is good. And of course, colleagues and colleagues, the call on the side of the coalition is: give strength to this effort, support these amendments that we are trying to accept again in order to improve the text of this law. And let's give the government the opportunity to do what it says, what it represents, what it writes in the strategic development programme of Slovenia, what it says and writes in the mega projects that need to be realized, so that we can only do so if we connect in this two-million-dollar nation everything that exists in these two million people. Let's make this effort, let's tell people that we want to co-create dialogue in these companies, to co-create the best solutions so that these people are happy to come and leave work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you. With this, we have exhausted the list of reported debaters. Does a representative of the government want a word? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 7.3.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. Check-in is on. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. I would like to point out that we are discussing Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats and the SNS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. I don't want to waste your time, but I have three sentences to repeat. I think I had a feeling in my second reading that the majority in the National Assembly might also have listened to this idea and that somehow in the law on the participation of workers in management they would have placed this provision at the same level, since economic societies would be subject to this general formula, which means over 20 employees - the Council of Workers and up to 20 their representative. And we're simply suggesting that this is even with entrepreneurs, so these are supposed to go beyond 20. In fact, once again, the European Directive does not impose, nor does it require, between 0 and 50, is our free national choice. And I will say again, given the positive experiences we have in Slovenia, I do not hear negative stories, except in the individual cases that you have and all of them, more or less, we know, there are no negative experiences. So let's not go to the upper limit, extreme, but let's go to this standard already defined in the law, that's over 20, that the workers' council also have a s.p., as is the case with economic societies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! In all the introductory words and in all the art that has been shown here, we actually agree that workers should have the right representation. They have union representatives and under this law all legal entities, all companies above 50 employees also have holy workers. Some of you just want to make a difference and distinguish between s.p.s and other forms of society. You advocate and believe that in this way, of course, the satisfaction of workers will be greater and their rights, but also the chances of preventing bullying of employers, owners, more. You're kind of pleading for a situation that was at a time when we knew only one political party, just a unilateral political system and where all the employees have co-decisiond and decided everything in this society, not just in companies. Of course, it was one very blurry, false fiction that led primarily to irresponsibility, great irresponsibility and actually led our society to economics, not to a break, but to a state that we are experiencing today. We still feel it today. I don't understand why if I turn now to this amendment and the other two amendments, why should we distinguish between craftsmen and other companies? No, you should advocate a reduction in the number of employees when it is necessary to have a working representative. On the other hand, I don't understand, I really don't understand why working representatives should be particularly protected in their actions against them, in order for their representation to agree, that is the true working world - that is not necessary! In today's knowledge society, however, in today's society the importance of innovation is the most important capital that one entrepreneur, or privateer, or owner of an enterprise, or manager, has. I am sure that today a good worker, we are talking about small businesses, especially small businesses, can always create co-existence and partnership with owners, always. The owner or manager of this company will certainly be aware of the importance of this human capital, that it does not matter how it deals with this most important article of its company’s performance. Just as of course the owners. I really don't understand where fear is in this kind of relationship. If you look at small businesses or craftsmen, in fact they act as one large family, there are also bullying and problems, but this law allows all of them adequate judicial protection, including for working representatives, if that happens. I, like in previous times, will not support or supplement such thinking. I believe that the law is appropriate and that we can accept it and simply not refer, for example, to the Swedish system. The Swedish system at the time of our self-governance has already made it possible to participate in labour ownership, part of the payment for their work has already been paid in the form of co-ownership in Sweden, which in effect means a great deal of serious partnership between owners and workers or managers, but a serious and committed work and responsible work for the success of such a company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u161	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now that I've tried a few of these discussions, I really don't know where to start, I'm going to try at the end of the stupidest debate I've heard today. The worker is the biggest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u163	Mr. Zagorac, please choose your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u164	I will when the ministers of this government do, because they are also talking about hallucinations, but we are moving on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u165	I'd like to ask you one more time. Choose your words.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you for the heads-up, I will be from now on, but there have been some strange discussions. Workers - the largest capital. If this government knew it, it would protect it, not beat it, it beats it. But as long as you support the amendment, I will believe what you're explaining, these economic grand theories that I'm now listening to in the end. You beat him with this marriage. When you speak, who distinguishes s.p. of other forms of companies. The law and this government demanded that the board include themselves, not us. Your economic theories demanded that. Then tell me where you're taking them from, which planet none of us have ever been to. If we move on. Sweden, how is it arranged? Yes, and the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is summarised by the Swedish system. And Sweden is the one, Mr State Secretary, who is supposed to have the most regulated social, labour and other rights in the European Union. Then why don't you help us get close to this Sweden you like to defend in your field. And last but not least, you are the representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. So I expect you to protect the workers, the family and those who need social assistance and social transfers, not beat them with every law. And who's afraid of co-managing workers? Who's afraid of him? I know that some representatives of today's ruling party have advocated the workers most four years ago, and today they are terribly concerned about employers. And yesterday, a minister like that spoke here, even wanted to think that it was the capital that set the elections. Yeah, well, the logic is clear, but don't hide. Let me tell you, we've been set up by capital, from now on we're defending capital, not a worker anymore. That's what we did when we were in the opposition, when we wanted to be liked. Today we no longer need to, but today we need to fill some pockets so that we can finance another campaign. And, Sir, the former Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, you sent these poor workers first to an inspection that we found together yesterday that it did not work. Then you sent them to a court that we found today had a ton of judicial backlog. Yeah, but when are they gonna get their turn? God knows what year, and if you want to go your way, according to the new man's. I don't think I'll be in this House anymore, either, when it comes to you, let alone you, you're so much older than me. And of course this amendment needs to be accepted. I don't know who you're afraid of. Maybe I don't know the right people because I come from the opposition SNS. I don't know. 13% of the population in this country is those who employ more than 50 workers. For 13% of people here today, you're "eating" and you're trying to convince us that's not the case. And that's not true, not nodding your head, show me that there are more than 13%. Look at the latest economic trends, how many there are in statistics. Please, 13%, don't defend the other 87. Doesn't it matter if it's 50 or 25? Not for us, but probably for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u167	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Please. Excuse me, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd still like to tell all those of you who are confusing a little bit about what a representative of the workers' council is and what a unionist is. The representative of the Council of Workers has the right to decide how the company will also cooperate economically and businessly, while the representative of the trade union only advocates and guarantees workers' rights. If you don't know that, many of you believe you don't know, look at the Labour Relations Act. This amendment to Article 4, under which our Member, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, has signed, speaks of a member of the Council of Workers, a worker or a representative of workers who cannot, without the consent of the workers, in essence, obtain a waiver from a contract of employment or a new contract of employment, which also allows for a new law on working relationships, less favourable working conditions at work or less favourable wages. If we do not accept this amendment unanimously today, this is a clear sign to all social partners, honourable Members and Members that we do not trust the working class that creates new added value in Slovenia and that there is no social dialogue. Yes, Mr. Squirrel, have a good laugh. That's why you went where you were - in the parliamentary bench. I would ask you to have a little sensitivity when you decide how we will give workers the opportunity and opportunity to create a better piece of bread for themselves in co-decision. This amendment is talking about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u169	Mr. Bojan Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Chairman. Earlier in the debate on the law, we have also talked in full about the fact that independent entrepreneurs can themselves ensure a better position of employees beyond the law. However, it is important that this is regulated by law and thus protected by legal means in order to feel protected and to influence the position of employees. Since this is a small number of companies, which has been mentioned several times, the number or percentage of all companies, together with 50 employees in the Republic of Slovenia, is not 1,500, it is therefore important that, with the adoption of our amendment of 50, i.e. 50 employees, replaces the 20 employees in Article 1, we give this assembly the right signal that we want creative and confident employees who will be the bearers of future development. I propose that the coalition Members take this proposal seriously once again, that this proposal may also be considered by the Government and change its position and inform the National Assembly that the amendment replacing the number 50 with amendment 20 is that of the said amendment, which is actually reflected in the title of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to all colleagues and colleagues and to the representative of the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you first, which of you who are sitting here discussing this problem lived in the house where the turnover was and where 15 people were employed. And which one of us was monitoring the matter? I can say that I am and therefore speak on the basis of my own experience. Look, I'm just gonna say it. Even in steel times, when there was a lot of work to be done so that we could even have so many and so many employees, he was an entrepreneur, he was my father-in-law, he was always present in the workplace, he was communicating with the worker, he was creating a pleasant climate, he was paying regularly and clearly, the workers were satisfied. I must say, no one wanted to leave him. And he's never had a problem with fluctuation. For these reasons, his company ran normally, nicely, to the end as long as he lived. Why? Because he was human himself, he was a real entrepreneur, he knew that the worker was his capital and that it was necessary to take care of him as he had taken care of himself. I continued to work for 15 years in the company where we were employed 85, and I must say that I personally felt a great difference in this other company, where the situation was not so pink, pleasant, good. There really was a different atmosphere here. In fact, there were significantly more employees, leadership, management was unable to communicate with people daily, he was not always aware of the problems, I can say, sometimes he did not want to, and among such a crowd there were times when dissatisfaction. There, I felt that there was a need for some kind of union connection between people, that management could not exploit them. I've experienced all this on my own, and that's why I can speak responsiblely about this thing. Look, we're going, Slovenia as a country, to some association. Since we decided on the European Union, we have adopted certain directives and have been adapting to these directives all the time. I see just as much in this law as in Directive 2002/14EC, which requires us to be alone - I say - we must decide for ourselves where this limit will be. On the basis of previous discussions, we have just adopted the 50th border. For me, this limit is totally acceptable. And I'm gonna say it, it's never good that one thing is imposed. This can be said from one’s own skin if we impose something on one’s own, he will stretch out his hands and resist. And actually today, with some numbers from 20 to 50, we want to impose this number on entrepreneurs. It has already been introduced to us by the European Union Directive and I see no reason not to leave the most volatile numbers simply behind. And look, we have, I've heard here today, inspection services on one side, on the other side of the court. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have these institutions, as far as I had practice at the company, whenever a worker complained, the company was lost. Because the worker complained and was always probably right and the courts and inspection services were usually fine with the workers. And the company, I know, was paying compensation for inappropriate treatment of workers. It was a payday. And I don't know why we're afraid of these institutions, I've told you many times before, we adopt laws here that are good, very good, but when they come into implementation things stop. Why? Because our inspection services don't work, they don't do their job. Let us turn the matter around, for example: Let us go to inspections and see why inspections do not do to us what is to blame. And let's do something about it. If we're already paying them, then let them work, and these are all the same inspections, from construction to work to everyone. And that's what I'd be willing to talk about. I must say that I do not support any of these amendments, I want the matter to remain as loose as possible, but I say that the company that is merely seeking profit does not have a long existence, sooner or later this company will fail, this company will lose good and quality people and it is also guaranteed that production and business will eventually go on the ground. This you have to believe, this is a purely normal natural cycle that is happening; and clearly, companies are growing again and so things are moving on. The more we limit it, the more we make trouble for people. And I'm going to say something else, and I've been going to the Chamber of Commerce in Kamnik on purpose since the first hearing, and I've agreed to meet with the head of the Chamber of Commerce to discuss this. I must say that everyone present to me from the director to those executives at the Chamber of Commerce argued that they had discussed this and that they do not agree with any restriction of the S.P. - what I am talking about as independent entrepreneurs - and that they do not agree that they want this matter to remain as it was accepted in the previous hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I'm opening another circle. Check-in is on. Mr. Boyan Rugelj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much. My colleague has said a few things, I think we all know this in here, it's just a matter of different distractions, but in fact some people want to vote with our workers. I think that few of those people who are still falling for such a socialist password these days have passed. We have decided for the European Union, self-government is no longer, but ownership is now. When they were all owners or when we owned the factory, it was perfectly normal for us to decide. Today's business is a little different: if you answer the owner with your assets for the company's business. And there's no one who can't answer with their property that's not responsible for any business, decide whether or not to decide how this company is supposed to do business. But it is true that every smart owner and entrepreneur will involve the workers, ask them what is good, what they think, what is good and will also take their good suggestions into account, it is a shame to be afraid, but it would be legal, and that would be a little strange, it is no longer. That is why I would suggest that you forget this or, if you take the Magnography of Mr Drobnič from the previous sitting, his debate, I think it was a very good debate, and put him under the "shower" so that you will slowly come to terms with the fact that it is simply not. And even our workers have long accepted it, they don't care, they want to get paid every month, to do well, to take their suggestions into account, it's not a problem, but to legalize it, but it's illogical. Today, the owner, I'm going to say one more time, who's responding with his property, can't be instigated and someone can say, "This is what you're going to do." When he too responds with his possessions, he can. He can buy shares, he can make some investments, the deals are possible different. Otherwise, unfortunately, it doesn't work. Even in a private firm, there may be someone who owns the company, excuse me, someone who owns the company and invests so much and so much capital that we're in the clear. Yes, as we call it, they can either be shares or co-ownership as a percentage or in money or whatever. That is how codecision occurs, and it is right to make a proportional decision at that time. As long as the owner is one, independent entrepreneur, as Rudy said, with 15 and 20 people, we will now give him the world of workers on his back, and I don't know what else to do, then co-management - I think this would lead to the growing uncompetitiveness of our economy. But as long as this owner finds out it's good, but he can do it, no one forbids it by this law. That's how much I'd have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u175	Mr. Bojan Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. As I listen to this debate, I am increasingly getting the feeling that we have lost contact with the real world. Today I think it doesn't matter how many people it is, whether it's 20 or it's 50, but I think it's more the essence of who's out there who's loved in this Labour world, who's running -- because we're meeting today -- with what. We have labor councils, we have trade unions, but these people are inside the kimowki administrations. When elections are held in the working world, many people only come to the companies, the elections are called; who will go in - the one who will nod in the administration. But the point of all is that we educate people to know what they're going to do, why they're running, and that they can be educated, and if they're educated, they'll be able to mate with the owners, and they'll be able to run the company. Then it's not the point of whether it's 10, or whether it's 20, or 50. When we have a union election, what's going on? There's an election call coming in at the company - who's going to vote? One is usually the one who manages the most, and in the end, he does nothing for the worker. It's the same for the working world. And the point is to educate people, these real people to put up and that people who are aware of companies - workers when elections are in the labor world, into the union, run for the right people. Because they'll be able to represent you and do something for you. But if they nod the administration to submit to the board, it doesn't mean whether there's 300 or a thousand in the collective, if they have everything, and in the end, the worker has nothing to do with it. And the point is, which man, not how many. And I think the law is good, but it's important to educate people who will run inside so they can draw for the workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Now I must say first that it is not hygienic or some kind of shame that the one who discusses is good enough to at least know the fundamental law and the changes to the law. Now, according to article 1, I have to read, I said before, I assumed that through double reading, you all know, and that you understand the point, and now I have to read it, and I will slowly read it. This proposal, which goes to 20 without any differentiation, is equivalent in the light of the current law on the co-ordination of workers proposed by this government and has not amended Articles 8 and 9. And paragraphs 8 and 9 say that in economic societies I can, "may" warn "may", and also applies to entrepreneurs, "may". And if they understand each other, like you say they understand each other, they'll do it or they won't, because they'll figure it out if they need it or not. But it's an equation that we don't have two different solutions in marriage. That's why we proposed 20 because we already have a marriage, and the government hasn't changed that. Secondly, what I have to say in this regard is once again: the European Directive does not prescribe this. However, it prescribes something else and I will read it to you because I have read it once before, and the directive does not allow any discrimination against workers in relation to the specific form of economic activity management. And now here I'm laying you down again, not just the S.P.s who are responding to their entire assets. There are other economic societies, such as, say, command and so on, not to mention. So do not use this argument because it is a barren argument. Once again: co-management of workers is not linked to the legal and organisational status of an undertaking or company. And in this direction, once again, it's an equation, not two different solutions. And the other thing. What my colleague Rugelj was talking about - I also have to answer this politically. Here they are - colleague Veršnik talked about steel times - spoke fundamentalists in the Union of Communists of Slovenia. I was young at the time, but I was an opportunist against such fundamentalism, with this language with which you have just spoken, Comrade Rugelj. But that's right. And the example given by Comrade Veršnik, how it worked in steel times, and now the experience is not working, says that this solution, which we are proposing, is in place. So you're sticking to this solution that we're giving, that's one of these protective mechanisms. Because then, like you said in steel times, things worked. Now in the "uncertain times", under the terms, it doesn't work. Although I have to say one more time about this booth: in service activities, trade and hospitality, it is an enormous abuse of workers and employees. And we need to get some kind of security guard in here. Most of these are s.p.'s. Finally, we are not to blame for the opposition and this national council that the government has screwed up, lied to Brussels, that it has this arrangement with regard to entrepreneurs. We didn't make that up. With this solution, she came in a second reading when Brussels warned her that we did not have it arranged. Until then, we have not discussed this matter at all. And so please, it is very good to know what we are talking about, that we also know what is at the heart of what we are talking about, and what is the historical course of this year - because this is not 50 years ago, because we discussed this one year - we know when we talked about what we were taking, what we accepted and what we finally accepted. So, fellas, I don't know how to say this, please, this isn't about some exclusive right we're giving. It's a security guard who won't hurt anything, not competitiveness, not a good atmosphere, plus it will, because they can do it. It's not "mus", it doesn't say they have to be over 20. "You can."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u179	Mr. Rugelj, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Look, I'm afraid I have to replicate Mr. Kumar. We know that there are several different possible societies, from the beginning. I merely cited the case of s.p.'s, where it is most pronounced that the owner specifically responds with his own property. And a lot of them were already answering, while somewhere else a lot of people weren't answering. Here the procedures can be very fast and precisely for this reason, this is one of the cases, this does not mean that there are no other cases - and here Mr Kumer was of course referring to an equation and what I know what it is all about. Look, this equation, this equality, I think we know these expressions from this half-time history, and we're done with it. Those who do well are properly rewarded, those who do worse are a little worse. And that's right. This amendment itself reads as follows: 'In the first paragraph, the text, with at least 50 workers'replaced, with the text of at least 20 workers'. I'm not seeing any equivalency. Then we'd write that you're equating! But it's not in the amendment, and I'm against this amendment because such small companies or small entrepreneurs, I don't want them to be burdened personally. And I believe that the vast majority of Members will decide not to accept this amendment. I think we understand each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u182	The amendment to Article 1 touches on independent entrepreneurs, where we try to regulate their status and status in accordance with European legislation and directives. The question we need to answer is, at which point or by what number do we create a threshold for the creation of a working world? For this reason, I believe that it is also necessary to listen to the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Slovenian Employers who point out that the saints of workers are an important entity in the operation and, above all, in the advancement of individual companies. However, as I said earlier today, on the other hand, they also bring costs and obligations to employers. In particular, I would like to point out once again that independent entrepreneurs are not equal to many corporations, since they are usually individuals or micro-enterprises, often family-owned, which I think is a crucial or decisive difference that gives independent entrepreneurs a different role. I must also say that before being a Member of the National Assembly, and now that I am a Member of the National Assembly, I regularly visit and talk to independent entrepreneurs and employees who are happy to trust me with all kinds of problems they face in their work. And that's what I think is crucial. This is the content that we have implemented into marriage: that is, to listen to people, to listen to those who are burdened with the problem. And these are certainly independent entrepreneurs and those who are employed there. And it was very clear from these discussions, I would like to point out that, for the success of the company, regardless of its legal form, the market is not the important figure we are talking about, and the creation of a labour council, but, above all, a legal basis that reduces the bureaucratic obstacles that I have already discussed today, and the tax burden on employers and the stimulating working environment for workers, as I have already said, it is a good and regular wage, regulated working time, mutual trust and so on. And that's what this law gives, respected colleagues and colleagues. And the last sentence, I am sure that in this law we have implemented what is the interest of entrepreneurs or employees. And that's why I'm going to support this marriage, and I'm not going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u183	Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I don't know whether we're stealing time from God now or not. Whether we're convinced of each other or not. Nevertheless, I think that we are talking today in this debate from a second point of view, as we discussed at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, because there was then a proposal by social democracy to withdraw the amendment included in Article 1, paragraph 50. And that's when we said it was from 0. And that's when I said to the debate that we should take the extreme case of "representing" this problem more, at least two employees should be employed if we want to talk about co-management; the owner, who is the director, and one worker. And that's when I told you how you're going to save this co-ordination. This can then be shown further, if there are five employees, is the owner, which is the director, and four workers, who must be one of them in the world, are supposed to be in the workers' world. And it seems that in the previous debate we have come so far as to come today from your side also an amendment to just enter some number - 20 and from the National Party 25. I have to say that I support, we agree with 20, even 25, even 30, and 50. And I have to decide what I'm going to decide - and I'm going to decide 50. I'll explain why. From another point of view, such as the previous debate. And I hope, Comrade Kumer, that I won't "screw" when you said we're on this page today. You said that in your debate. Small companies, these are also s.p. companies and family companies have the property to bequeath their property, that they are usually members of the family, and that they are also the owner of the company. The success of each company, as well as of a small company, is that it has a vision that it has the right product, that it has the means, the material and, above all, that it has people, employees, and motivated people. And even such a modern machine, a good machine without a motivated worker doesn't mean anything, doesn't work a machine because it doesn't have a motivated operator. And a satisfied, motivated worker will be - and I'll list it as a priority - for the first time: that he will have a good salary. Second of all, he'll have good conditions. Thirdly, that mutual relations will be good, horizontal and vertical, and fourthly that it will be included as a human being, as a worker in innovative processes, to be a creative and not just a physical worker. These are some of the priorities and in this way everyone will be motivated, will not have a desire to co-operate, because it indirectly co-ordinates because it is involved in the whole process. You know, it's philosophy. And any owner who is the director, let's say he is the director, will be interested in these people being motivated as much as possible because these people identify with this small company, this is their company, although they are not owners, this is the characteristic of a small business against a large company. And the unmotivated worker will be the owner and the director or director who invited him to talk to you in private, and in particular he will be expelled by the team, the collective, this small collective, because they will not bear the fact that he is on the team - the characteristic of teamwork is that the team eliminates the bad worker. The other applies to larger systems, but there is a need for co-management, because there are multiple levels of governance, because there is no direct link between leadership and the worker, because intermediate levels are, because the flow of information is not direct and because they are hiding because of these hierarchical levels, also problems at the lowest level. That's why co-ordination is needed. In smaller companies, however, the owner controls the whole system, is interested that the company is as successful as possible and that it will be as successful as possible, people and employees must be motivated as possible. And this can be an example of successful small companies in Slovenia, Akrapovic or some other, go see what it is like there, what co-management is like - like I said they are involved in the processes. [[...]] I know there are colleagues among us who are entrepreneurs. Comrade Han, ask him - I don't know if he has more employees - how is co-ordination with him. He is probably also one of us, who came from a small group, to say whether he was disappointed in this collective, but he was not co-managing, we are speaking directly, but he was involved in the processes. And now I'm going to tell you why I'm leaning and supporting 50. Because I don't think if it were 20, the owner didn't hire 21st or 22nd or 30th or 49th. [[..]] And that means the result - the loss of potential jobs. The country has the objective and strategy to create as many conditions as possible for the promotion of entrepreneurship also by small enterprises, which are an important member of a successful economy. That's the thing. A successful economy means social security and also means, I would say, the well-being of all citizens and citizens. This is my philosophy, and I'm not philosophical to include anything in co-management, we just have to look at the logic, what's better and what's really motivation in that little company. Is it a good condition for him to be involved in the processes that he will manage or that he will have a good salary? I support, I would say that the matter is as loose as possible, that there is as many possibilities as possible. The owner has the opportunity, if this is in line with his goal to include directly employees in co-management as you think it should be included, this always has a supported option. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Ljubo Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, it is difficult here today, too, with the best will of Members of the various parliamentary groups, to speak with feelings, even with personal experience, which may be on limited occasions. So I would like to remind you again of what has already been said today. Do we have empirical data on this? The government has not given them; we do not have them to prevent them from making good business decisions, to interfere with the legislative proposal on what would be the responsibility of owners, management and to make decisions worse. Colleagues from the coalition when you speak different boundaries, which are set to set some criteria. We discussed a proposal that was adopted on the home working body, which set the lower threshold on the p.p., i.e. one employee actually. The issue at hand showed that this could be too low a threshold for the arguments cited. That is why today we have amendments on the table that speak of this border and are significantly lower than those adopted by the amendment at the second reading plenary session. Did you serve us today with an argument that you are so vehemently insisting on the number 50 that all the numbers you're talking about will be a restriction that someone who is 19 will not hire the twentieth. Just like you're saying it over your thumb, it would be good for you to give professional reasons. Because we can play up and down with these numbers. And that is what we are doing today, and we are working together to find out where the optimal limit is so that we can implement such an encouraging policy in entrepreneurship in order to ensure conditions of competitiveness. If we are willing to talk about it, then it is good to accept a warning from the opposition. But if this is about prestige, then tell us this, for then every debate is pointless. If you have set the number to 50, and no argument that we are trying to show from the opposition today that a different number is possible, then we can close the debate, because the concrete position does not allow any change. Of course, there is no proposal on the table today to try to create non-competitive conditions in some company. Just so we can say that we've already coordinated and figured out that 50 is the best. Yeah, how if there were so many different opinions, opinions and on the other hand no empirical data to say that in companies that have, say, 10 employees, 15 employees, walking someone through the company, yes, is not enough? We've had our experiences on different ways of life so far. And don't make fun of me that even someone who walks around is enough to make the relationship between the director or the manager and the employees ideal now that those who are less in touch with someone are extremely weak. If you so simplify this story, then of course the debate on the content of this amendment can be very simple as you are trying to present it. If I follow what was also said here in the debate, because it is not an essential number, it is important that people know something about it, that they are educated and so on. If that were the case, then we wouldn't need laws if we all followed the best ideas. We place laws where regulation is necessary to cut them into situations that do not follow the objective for which we might wish it to be achieved. That's the purpose of the laws. If we were an ideal society, in this case we would have a 100% confidence rate, optimal relationships and such regulations would not be necessary. Therefore, fellow opposition, consider whether our proposals have some salt, or whether it is prestige. If this is about prestige, tell us clearly, because then the discussion is of course pointless, but if you have arguments, then try to present them today. So far, unfortunately, they have not been heard from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u187	Mrs. Barbara Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Just a quick explanation. You know, the one who basically doesn't hire a 20th or 21st worker because of threshold 20, that employer basically starts off with bad intentions, and no doubt such a worker won't respect the will, let alone co-manage the workers in his company. Very good laws, we have heard that this government or government coalition, which do not live in practice, accepts. This is, my dear fellow, but I am sorry that he is not here, but I hope he will hear nothing more than the normative idealism or Sisyphus' work of the Government, the government coalition, not least of all the National Assembly. Why, I wonder. Someone was talking to the members of the Chamber of Commerce, but let me remind him that the Chamber of Commerce represents the interests of craftsmen, entrepreneurs and not workers. Today, however, we are talking about a law that speaks of workers' rights to co-decision or co-ordination. And if you do not know who you are concerned that the EU, which we are members of, does not know the system of co-ordination, let us prepare for the point at least when you speak, dear fellow. And if you want, I'll show you a piece of paper, and you'll see, [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that the EU is well aware of the co-management system.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm opening a second round, still on the amendment to Article 1. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u190	I will not insist on convincing you, but I would like to explain again more clearly. As is now enshrined in the bill, we have the right or the option of two types for employees. In the case of independent entrepreneurs, I stress that more than 50 companies may be defined in Articles 8 and 9 of the Law on the participation of employees in management, but it may be stated that more than 20 They've got a working agent up there. And our proposal goes in the direction of equalizing that workers or s.p., but those 20 who have electoral rights, not those who have such employees, but to equalize that they have the same status as employees in s.p. and in companies. That's all this is about. Once again, the word "may" is not "mus" if they understand each other so well. And once again, this is the right and opportunity of workers. They're not going to ask the employer or the management now, if you could do what you think. This is their right and opportunity with this law, lady. But they can decide not to do so even if there are 100 employees. And today you have companies and companies that have more than a dozen employees, and they don't have a working world. You can do it for a variety of reasons. But we have to give them that chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you. I note that no one wants to discuss the amendments to this Article, so I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SNS Group of Members. I'm opening the application. Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you. Everything has already been said in the past two discussions. I would like to remind Members, because it is the immunity of employees who are representatives of workers in holy workers, remember what we are discussing about the immunity of our Members in this National Assembly. If we have such a high opinion within us, let us give a fraction of this high opinion to our employees and leave them this immunity, to those who, on behalf of workers and workers, defend certain positions. But if we want to have the stones and the ones that are according to management and management, then of course we won't accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Does the government representative have anything to say?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u194	Dear Members and Members. Government of this amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u195	Mr. Secretary of State, I'd like you to stand up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u196	Excuse me. Dear Members and Members. The amendment government, as proposed, does not support it. It is that the existing article is much better protected by workers' trustees and members of the workers' council than by the amendment proposed. Let's read this amendment as it's written, and imagine. It says in the amendment that a member of the Council of Workers, a worker's trustee, etc. cannot, without the consent of the Council of Workers, cancel a contract of employment, offer a new one to the same or other employer to reduce his salary, to initiate disciplinary or compensation proceedings against him or otherwise to place him in a less favourable or subordinate position if he acts in accordance with the law, the collective agreement and the employment contract. It is said that if the Council of Workers gives consent, all of this can be done with this man, even though he is acting in accordance with the law. Nor can the Council of Workers have such authority to expel someone and say that, even though they act in harmony with the law, you can impose all possible bullying on him. As a result, we believe that a much better diction is such as in law, which states that if a member of the labour council acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement or contract of employment, then the employer can do him no harm because he is protected by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'm opening the third round. Mr. Dusan Kumer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you. I'm not talking about manipulation. Now, if you will remember the previous amendment we gave in the second reading, we have completed this last part. But why? Because it's a chronic argument. The proposal was that this was regulated by Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act. Today, in my introduction, I spoke about what this 113th article says. And these rights, these protections are nowhere in this law, taken away, as is now the case in Article 67, completely confiscated for all other kinds of bullying. Because for disciplines it is so regulated in Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act and there is no debate here. This is about the protection of workers' representatives who are in the workers' world and who, if necessary, will also make it a little harder to oppose the employer and the management. And if you don't think that's necessary, then like I said in the introduction, even through this law you work politically, I will now say politically compatible workers in individual companies and businesses. You are making representatives of workers according to the level of management, as already mentioned by a colleague from the Democratic Party of Slovenia in his debate, with which I agree 100%.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u199	Since I find that no one else wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We have thus concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in accordance with the meeting's time frame in the framework of the vote, which will be at 18.50. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u200	Dear Members and Members. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please calm down first and then examine the voting devices. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the report of the Constitutional Commission on the drafting of a proposal for a constitutional law amending Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for views on the draft Constitutional Law. Before this, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 178 of the Rules of Procedure, the position will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a position by the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. If the position is adopted, the proposal for position number 2 becomes irrelevant. I note that 62 Members and Members voted. For 18. Against 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed position is not adopted. I am putting to the vote a proposal for a position by the SNS Group of Members. We're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 66 votes in favour. For 40. Against 25. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposed position is not adopted. I note that the assembly has not adopted any position, so I propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 180 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the following decision be adopted: The procedure for amending Articles 83, 100 and 167 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is terminated. The proposal will be adopted by a simple majority. Before we go to the vote, I would also like to point out that, should the proposed decision be adopted, the substance of the same proposal in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 177 of the Rules of Procedure will not be possible to place it on the agenda of the meeting of the National Assembly during this term, nor will it be possible to deal with it at the Constitutional Commission. We're voting. There were 65 votes in favour and 65 votes in favour. For 50, for 12. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the constitutional audit procedure has been completed. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible to place the substance of the same proposal on the agenda of a meeting of the National Assembly during that term of office, nor is it possible to deal with it on the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia by drafting a constitutional law. We turn to the vote on the following motion for a decision: The National Assembly adopts the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 11.5.2006 to initiate the procedure for amending Article 129 of the Constitution of Slovenia. The Constitutional Commission proposes to the Assembly not to adopt this Decision. Before voting, I wish to inform you that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 168 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be adopted if two thirds of the Members present vote for it. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 28. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 177 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the procedure for this proposal shall be terminated. It is no longer possible to table an equivalent proposal in this mandate, nor is it possible to deal with it on the Constitutional Commission. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on corporate financial transactions, the reduced procedure, the second treatment. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 4. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 4 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. Mr. Tanko, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm predicting we're going to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I interrupt this agenda item and inform you that we will proceed with this item tomorrow, following the conclusion of the entire agenda of tomorrow's meeting of the assembly. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is through the third reading of the Amendment of the Law on Change and Supplements to the Cooperation of Workers in Management. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group to Article 1. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 28 votes against 36. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 28 votes against 37. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 4. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 28 votes against 36. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 37. I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We're moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted for 42, against 25. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 5th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on protection against drowning. On Tuesday, 6 March, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments have not been adopted to the draft law, it is not possible to submit the amendments in the third reading of the amendments, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to a decision on the law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that due to the parental working body of the amendments adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mrs. Majda Shirca, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u203	In the debate that took place during this marriage, there were surprising establishments or explanations. Worse still, there were surprising lies, including ignorance, I don't know, but the government certainly didn't know what kind of marriage she was making or what she was fixing the old marriage. Of course, I'm talking about the proportion that talks about the safe operation of the swimming pool and which shuts down or provides such a solution that swimming pools that are about the size of this hall and about the size of a meter and about the size of a meter and the size of an inch, do not need a lifeguard or a security guard to control that. Not only accidents in the near past, but also the possibilities that are announced in doing so, are leading me to oppose the law, especially because I think that some logic of money has been subjected to this work, not to caring for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Ms Shirca discussed it on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Mr Aurelio Juri has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u205	Neither will the Social Democrats support the law. Yesterday or before yesterday, there was a lot of talk, or this novel and such arrangement lowers safety standards. The fact that it reduces them is said by the Law-Legal Service itself, and not only by us, they also say from professional lifeguards. In our debate, we have placed on you the responsibility you have when you accept this law, which has been and is a unique opportunity to strengthen security standards. You didn't do it. You didn't even believe the warnings of the Law-Legal Service, and when any accident happens instead because there will be no lifeguard at the pool, because the lifeguard won't be qualified because he'll be too slow, because he won't be able to revive any potential victims, you know you're taking responsibility. We don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Robert Hrovat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support amendments to the law on protection against drowning. These changes and additions are simpler, more rational and raise safety standards against drowning or at least keep them at the same level and do not reduce them in any way. Everything we've just heard doesn't hold. The main concerns in the consideration of this law have focused mainly on two topics, on safety standards in pools less than 200 square metres and on the training of rescue workers from water, where, after a new check, it is now every third year, which we certainly agree with, as experience has shown that this is certainly enough. As for the presence of a lifeguard in the pool, which is less than 200 square metres, I must say that with these changes we are only legitimizing, stressing, we are only legalizing a solution that is already in force today. The law does state in Article 28 that the owner or the manager of the bath during operation is obliged to ensure that the prescribed number of rescue workers is present at all times during operation. That's right. However, the key criteria for this are laid down in the Regulation on the classification of bathing sites and organisational measures to protect against drowning. Even now, it says, there is no need for rescue workers to be present in pools that are 1,35 feet [1.35 m] deep and 200 square meters [200 sq m] deep. So the safety standards are not falling, but we are keeping them at this level, as they are now. In addition, much more binding arrangements are made to organise public events and events mainly in the field of kayakism, rafting, where the conditions for organising these activities are quite strict. Of course, all in the desire to ensure greater human security. For all of this, we will, of course, support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application in my personal name. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u209	I thought we were in a country that's successful, that's richer, that's richer, that's never going to be bigger, but it's going to be the most successful, it's going to be the safest, and it's going to be nice to people. And the country will see to it standards that are at least comparable to all developed countries. In this law, we are faced with the simplicity that, say, the representative of the Government expressed loudly in this Chamber on Tuesday, on the committee, he confirmed that it was simple to talk to interested groups, i.e. those who manage swimming pools, and it seemed to him that the Jewish pea was to be paid by individuals and that the administrators were to use it for rescue workers from the water and that they were to give it for training or knowledge testing every year, for those who were solving it, yes, it was simply too much. It is now at the heart of the mentality that all commitments, all things that are in favour and in protection of those who are in the situation, are needed, I believe, and I hope that the disaster will be less, but when the state abandons the already prescribed things that would be useful or in some way contribute to the attention being given to the presence of rescue workers and to the training of rescue workers at the maximum level to abandon this action. I don't get it, and that's something that's gonna be very hard to support.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovic, Member of the Slovenian National Party, argues that no paramedic in this country has so much fitness, so much knowledge in the field of health and so much capacity that he needs to be tested every third year for knowledge. And Bogdan Barovic, Member of the Slovenian National Party, claims that no swimming pool of 200 square metres and 1,35m is safe enough. And as a representative of the Slovenian National Party, I claim that this law, if adopted, increases the savings to this country, which will be pushed by God knows where and absolutely reduces security. So I'm going to be absolutely opposed, and I'm going to say right now that they have to bear the responsibility from now on, God forbid anything happens, but if anything happens, those who are going to be married.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-08-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 21. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 25th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night!
