ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear Members, please calm down and take your seats. Once again, I ask you to take your seats and calm down. Thank you. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, mag. Janez Petty Officer, mag. Janez Kramberger, Jakob Presectnik and Villa Rezman. I have invited the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšk, to the 20th item, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, on the 1, 16 and 17 points, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the candidate for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mr Iztok Jarc, on the 16th item, the candidate for the Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, Dr. Žigo Turk, on the 17th item, and the representative of the Council on the 20th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 23 February 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 25th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 18. On the day-to-day basis - the understanding of the suspension of the mandate of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. On 2 February 2007, Ambassador Franz Kangler made a written declaration to resign from the duties of Member of the National Assembly. The resignation was addressed by the Commission of the mandate-holders and it reported in writing to the assembly. On the basis of the report of the Mandate-Electorial Commission and in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the Member of the Republic of Slovenia made a declaration on 2 February 2007 to resign from the duties of a Member of the National Assembly and therefore, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 202 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, terminates the mandate of today. I thank Mr Franc Kangler for his long-standing work and wish him a great deal of success in his further work. On the basis of this conclusion, I will ask the State-Electorial Commission to determine which candidate will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. I'm closing this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the Assembly, which will continue at 3 p.m. with the consideration of item 1 of the agenda, this is with the question of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We're moving on to one. This is the day’s agenda for questions from Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I'm asking you to calm down again. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 25 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The Minister of the Interior will then answer the question raised at the 24th meeting of the assembly, to which he did not respond due to his absence. Today, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy should also answer the unanswered questions raised at the 24th meeting of the Assembly. Since the Ministers are justifiably absent today, they will answer the question at the next meeting. It's a Magnificent message. Majda Potrat and the Magi Members. Milan M. Squeakle, mag. Borut Saiovic and Samo Bevk, who have submitted two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who have been registered ask one question. Members shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and the Minister shall answer the question in no more than five minutes. If the question is more to ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak and Minister of Education and Sport Dr Milan Zver. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the questions raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives not yet answered in the course of business. We are now moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Prime Minister, Minister and Ministers. Last November, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy with the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Environment prepared a presentation of the project for the comprehensive development of the area of the third development axis. The study was paid from the European Union Structural Funds. It was manufactured by a publicly selected Omega Consult company. Result of the study: out of the ten scenarios based on the development elements, the economy of investment, the environmental impact aspect and development effects, three were selected. The third development axis in all three of the most favourable scenarios connects Koroška, Savinja region, Zasavje, Posavje and south-eastern Slovenia. All three scenarios foresee a third development axis through Zasavje. Another time. In December last year, the management of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants ensured that Holding will start the renovation of TET Termoelectrica Trbovlje, which will be an important element in the energy supply strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of the energy development strategy. Third time. At the hearing of the Law on Public-Private Partnership, the Minister of Health, Dr Bručan, publicly and officially stated that the pilot project of the Public-Private Partnership would be the construction of the new hospital Trbovlje. The resolution on national development programmes drawn up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for development does not provide for and take into account any of the three previously announced and legally applicable solutions. The third development axis presented in the resolution runs under the X-Script and is in complete disharmony with the proposals chosen by the authorised institution as the most favourable option. This means that European funds have been thrown aside, that the formal institution is not taken into account, even worse, that the solution defined in the resolution is a voluntary decision of the Government Development Service, that there is no professional and legal basis that is most expensive and least effective under the chosen criteria. The resolution on energy development, which by the way is the priority content of the management of the troika in the European Union - Germany, Portugal and Slovenia, does not provide for the renewal of the TET Trbovlje. Third time. The resolution on national development projects 2007-2023 does not refer to the pilot project of public-private partnership, the new hospital Trbovlje. I ask you, "Who speaks falsehood, speaks one thing, does another?" Doesn't the left hand know what the right hand is doing? Why is there no third development axis in the resolution? Why is there no promise after the construction of the TET Trbovlje? Why is there no promise after the new hospital is built, and who can make a decision on their own? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you so much for the questions. With regard to the third development axis, it will not hold that it is not in the resolution on national development projects. The third development axis is, and is, to a large extent or to a full extent. This is, of course, a project called modernisation of the state road network. For this project, almost a billion and a half euro are fully earmarked and the main part or largest individual part of this project is the third development axis. This third development axis has been discussed for a long time, for years, you could say even decades, but it has only recently joined the concrete process. Last November, I think this was November last year, the first study was presented in New City. This study is now in the complementary phase. At this point, it is not possible to talk about whether this or another route is chosen. Thus it is not possible to talk about the fact that the Ripper is released or that it is involved. In fact, everywhere we have come in the last two years, I am thinking mainly of those municipalities that are somehow located in the potential area of this third development axis route, and I have come across arguments that the route must go right there. Nobody said it would go anywhere else. There's a lot of options here. As it is said, no choice has yet been chosen. The exact course of the route is also not drawn anywhere. The resolution on national development projects simply draws a link between the Austrian and Croatian borders. However, there is no exact route because it has not yet been determined. It will be determined by the procedures laid down by law, which means that local communities will be involved in order to include all those who need to be involved in the process of determining the route. There is no reason at this time for any ill-will in relation to the third development axis. On the contrary, for the first time in years, things happen here. As far as Termoelectrica Trbovlje is concerned, this project is of course not included in the resolution on national development projects. He holds the same for the hospital Trbovlje or for the new hospital Trbovlje. This is for a simple reason because the criteria for the inclusion of projects in this resolution were also the level of investment. None of these two projects or potential projects reach EUR 50 million, which was a criterion for the inclusion of individual projects in the resolution. The thermoelectric power plant Trbovlje is included, I think since 1 January this year in Holding Slovenian Power Plants. The future of investments in this project is included or part of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding Investment Programme. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the previous mandate has already been adopted under the relevant laws in 2009 as the year of the closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. Since then, coal will no longer bathe there. Energy will need to be provided from somewhere else, as has already been said, this will be easier provided within the Holding in which the thermal power plant is included. As far as the hospital is concerned, it's like you said. This is supposed to be one of the projects that will already exploit the possibilities of a new law on public-private partnership. The development of the investment programme is currently under way. The entire investment is expected to reach, I think, some 25 million euros, which means that it is not such an individual resource that would fit into the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much. You wish to complete your response, Mr Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The Honourable Prime Minister. No one claimed that the third development axis was not in the resolution. Yes, it is. And it's even drawn, and you say it isn't. And that's very precise, on page 59. And by scenario x 0 of the ten scenarios that the selected manufacturer has made, as far as I know, but I know them very well, I have them with me, the worst scenario. It doesn't take into account economics, it doesn't take into account environmental conditions, it doesn't take into account a lot of other things. Therefore, I ask for an additional answer: Who, regardless of the selection of the already paid study of the three most favourable solutions, granted or invented or hoped to put it into a resolution after their version, if we have an expertly prepared finding of the three best variants by the selected and paid contractor? And second. Of course, I did not know that the resolution listed projects worth more than 50 million in the energy programme. But when I look at it, I think there's another one that's described, and it's not worth 50 million. And here I would also like to ask a complementary question: Why not make the investments that were promised and which are important for the country for the electricity development strategy, so it was said to me personally by the management, why should such a project not be included, regardless of its value? And lastly, the hospital was promised in the development of health care in the resolution itself, of course there is no talk about it either. But you answered that, so I don't have a follow-up question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u9	As it is said, the hospital is foreseen and an investment plan is currently being drawn up. That's how I don't see any difference here, at least for the moment not, between what was promised and what was done. As far as the third development axis is concerned, I repeat, no option has been chosen. Whenever plans are made or ideas are made, some schemes need to be drawn. And also in this material, which is called the resolution on national development projects, you will find a scheme of complementary highway networks, a scheme of modernisation of the rail network, a scheme of reconstruction of state roads with a third and fourth development axis. They're all drawn roughly. According to that scheme, it is inappropriate to conclude that a specific route is established. Because, as has already been said, it was only last November that the study was presented and this study is being completed. And that's just the first step. Many more steps will have to be taken before the route is set and placed in space. We still have a lot of work to do. Thank God this is already done, because in this case we would be significantly closer to the goal, and so we are in fact facing the most complex process and, of course, part of this process is also the final determination of the route.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. I assess that, due to the content provided and based on the replies, I assess Article 246(2), and the Slovenian National Party assesses that it would be good for the National Assembly to carry out this response and this content at the next meeting. I am therefore taking the initiative to decide, on the basis of Article 246(2), whether the National Assembly is prepared to prepare a discussion at the next meeting on the content of the Minister's reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Barovic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be put by Mrs Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable assembly, distinguished ministers, Minister, Mr. President of the Government! The contents of the speech by the President of the Republic of Italy on the day of the remembrance of the photos and exodus of Italians from Istria, the river and Dalmatia after World War II were quite shocking for our citizens and citizens. This year's 10th of February was at the same time a 60-year-old signing of the Paris Peace Treaty and a concrete speech by the Italian President should also be interpreted in this light. Mr President, as far as could be seen in the media, you considered that this was not a formal proposal to revise one of the interstate agreements and that therefore there was no point in dealing with it. Well, in our view, this makes sense and is also essential to deal with. This is a broader issue which is important for the national interests of Slovenia and also concerns the international position and reputation of Slovenia. Although we have learned from the media that Dr Drnovšek, President of the Republic, wrote a personal letter to the Italian President. Its contents are unknown to the public. Is at least the Government aware of the contents of this letter, Mr. President of the Government? What is your position on the Italian president's speech? Did the government, whose first minister you are, also specifically respond to the views expressed by President Napolitano in his speech? Does the government intend to do something concrete about this? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you for asking. If I first respond with a time dimension, if I remember correctly, I think that I was one of the first in Slovenia to even comment on the Italian President's speech, that was at a press conference on 13 February, before this created a controversy that occurred mainly on the axis of the capitals of the two neighbouring countries. At that time, I said that Slovenia was a proponent of addressing such open issues from a semi-existing history in a patient way and in a European spirit, without burdening the current bilateral relations between countries, and that such conduct was expected by Slovenia also by official Italian policy. Then there was a further question of journalists, and this was a foreign - none of the Slovenians were interested at the time, later this interest appeared - whether Slovenia had received any proposal to revise interstate agreements. I said that Slovenia had not formally received any formal proposal from the Italian Government to revise any such inter-State agreement and was therefore not dealing with it. Of course, these questions did not arise for the first time. Since Italy celebrates this day of remembrance, this is practically every year in February. And the Slovenian Government, for the first time, when this issue became topical and media resounding, at the government meeting, said formally, on 17 February 2005 it discussed these matters and adopted views which were fully published, which were known and which I slightly additionally historically justified in my speech on Frost Mountain at the holiday of the day of the resistance. And therefore there must be no doubt as to the position of the Slovenian Government in this regard. On 16 February this year, our foreign minister, in a special letter, called on his Italian colleague to publish a so-called white book on developments in half past history between the two countries which were published on our website, not because we believe that this would be the closest way to a balanced treatment and that half-time events do not qualify unilaterally. The President of the Italian Republic has interpreted these events unilaterally if you read this speech. In my personal opinion, the reaction of the European Commission, which responded only to the statement made by the President of the Croatian State, but not to the first statement, the unilateral statement made by the President of the Italian State, was unilateral. This is not exactly what we would like from a common European institution. However, Slovenia did not want to interfere with the spiral of tightenings and later calming resulting from such and different interpretations of the various statements made by the presidents of the two countries. It is not known when the letter of unknown content in this regard was also sent by the President of Slovenia. The government has not been informed of this and I cannot comment on this. However, I would like to add that, despite these accelerations, public accelerations or public upheavals due to such and other statements, some of which have certainly not been acceptable or have been historically incorrect, there are also some processes that give more positive signals in relations between countries. Let me mention just last week's adoption of the country's law at the Furlania-Julia National Assembly, I believe that the electoral law, according to which the Slovenian minority will have the right to a direct representative for the first time in history in this country. And these are the steps that give hope for what happened once. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] New relations are being built. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. What you were talking about at your press conference, the government's views on what the Foreign Minister has sent to his colleague in Italy, we are informed of all this. Yet, we ask: Are you sure that all of this is really enough? President Napolitan's speech unequivocally testifies directly to Italy's intention to pursue its policy of trying to revise historical facts. Indirectly contests the Paris Peace Treaty, which is extremely important to us. He's reopening the issue of opportunists. It gives credibility to the well-known nationalist and neo-fascist positions of the Italian political right. And our Government accepts this as a silent position, and in political Latvian, it says that Italy must not forget the suffering that the Fascist regime has inflicted on other nations, when, of course, it has the right to remember its fellow countrymen who have suffered. This government, for example, did not seem to be at issue when Italy, by amending its citizenship law, made it very easy to acquire Italian citizenship for our citizens who are before II. World War II lived in the territories to the so-called Rapal border with Yugoslavia and also their descendants. This means, not just for those of our citizens of Italian descent. This law directly interferes with the sovereignty of our country over its territory and in its territory. Our foreign minister, however, said that today in the EU this can be nothing serious and that he also trusts Slovenian citizens and believes in their awareness that they will not accept Italian citizenship uncritically. And I ask you, Mr President of the Government: Do you not think that our Government should take a clear position on these moves by the Italian side and also communicate this clear position to the Italian parties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u19	The Government of the Italian Republic has not adopted any position and no action, nor any conclusions to which the Slovenian Government should react directly. These are the views expressed in the speech of the President of the neighbouring country. I think it is right that the President of the Republic of Slovenia directly responded to the views. What he said, I'm sorry, I don't know. However, this is the level of dialogue that must take place. If there were concrete proposals, as has been said, that the proposed revision of interstate agreements would probably be direct responses or measures at government level. That's how this government sure didn't miss anything here. However, I fear that something very important, when it comes to what is happening in the neighbouring country, has overlooked our historical and commentative profession, which has sometimes been overly entangled in the narrow patterns of cultural struggle from the homeland and has somehow overlooked a time in which some differences have been overcome in the neighbouring country and all political forces, from the far left to the far right, have united in some things that may also concern us. However, if you look at the reactions of the Italian public or the public in the neighbouring country on this issue, which has developed mainly between the capitals of the two neighbouring countries following the Italian President's speech, then you will tell me that something has been missed and that it would be good to see that sometimes, even in Slovenia, when it comes to such things, a bit of breathtaking, and then try to act uniformly, but not to attack its own Government, why it was too harsh, why it did not do so, and in this way, oil is poured on the fire of those who think it might actually be possible to revise some of history, so I am afraid that we have overlooked something in this story.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Lavtiger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u21	So, I can't say it's appropriate here to use the first person of the plural, confirm that we missed something. By the way, we didn't miss it. Our historical profession, as well as the press profession, also wrote about this, last weekend in the lens attached to the Journal by Mrs Mojca Drčar Murko, who is also a member of the European Parliament and even with her breath covered, I can say that relations with neighbours are of such importance that they must be constantly at the heart of the foreign policy strategy. Despite the fact that Slovenia has undertaken very important projects in recent years that have strengthened its international position. One such project will also be the Presidency of the European Union next year, and I hope it will be successful. However, it must be acknowledged that, in relations with some of Slovenia's neighbours, it is not strong enough and excessive enough to respond to similar excesses, such as the Italian President's recent speech, in an inappropriate and silent manner. Italy and I have quite a few unresolved issues. Italy does not want to raise the compensation that Slovenia has already put on a fiduciary account in Luxembourg. Italy has still not brought into the concrete life of the protection law, which was adopted in 2001, and also does not respect the situation and rights of our national minority, even though it sometimes rejects a small fraction in this sense. Before our threshold without our consent and prior consultation Italy intends to set up two liquefied gas terminals, it has not yet returned our art. It has adopted an amendment to the Citizenship Act, which interferes with the sovereignty of our country. The Italian President marks the Paris Peace Treaty, one of the foundations of the post-war regime in Europe, as an act of humiliation and humiliation of Italy and shows our victims as performers of annexationism and ethnic cleansing. I propose, my dear colleagues, that we hold a special debate on the response of the President of the Government, Mr Janša, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, while also adopting the relevant views of the National Assembly on the foreign policy strategy towards the neighbouring country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you. On the proposal by Mrs Lovtijar Bebler to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Bojan Kontic will next ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr President, the distinguished President of the Government, the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. One of the most important decisions of this Government was to try to reach the necessary consensus in Parliament to amend the Constitution, and this will ensure the adoption of comprehensive legislation for the introduction and, of course, the functioning of the provinces. With the active cooperation of the Social Democrats' Group last June, on 27 June, we also adopted this constitutional law and in this way allowed the Government to draw up and forward to Parliament the so-called 'land legislation'. On the adoption of the constitutional law, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development explained that the legislation was just before the conclusion, so it would be ready and presented to the public. Such were the assurances at the time, but there was no such thing. In November, Minister Zhagar visited us, presented four proposals for working texts of the laws on the provinces. Although the fifth one was missing, namely the number, the seat, the area, one of the most important ones, which will be accepted by a two-thirds majority. A few weeks later, we met again, we made comments on all this legislation, and we were promised to meet again in December. Of course, this meeting was nothing. And if we look at the government's programme, in previous years, the government has planned to adopt by the end of the year all the necessary legislation, so-called 'land legislation'. Well, that didn't happen. This year, the plan was to do so by 18 January, to ensure that the Government considers this legislation and adopts it by 18 January. That didn't happen either, as we know it. At the previous meeting, the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development said to my question of the Member State that the legislation was prepared so far as to be presented within a few days. It's been a few days, too. We can say that a month and nothing has happened in this area. I can't help but think that the minister didn't keep his word. Given that we are aware of the importance of the provincial legislation, of course, Mr President, I am asking you about your future and substantive plan for the adoption of provincial legislation. We want this provincial legislation to be adopted because we have been working on this from the very beginning, but we are also aware that we will be in time if we are to implement this legislation until the end of this mandate. But we don't want you to put us in a corner because of the weather and simply say, "Take or leave what we have prepared."
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u25	Thank you. These issues are very important. They probably refer to one of the key stocks that is ahead of the Slovenian country in the near future. Now I will not repeat history why it has been waiting so long for procedures or procedures to start establishing the provinces. The fact is that it is high time for us to do so, and the fact is that the situation is also favourable now. So I can comfort you. We'll all go together. It's not just a government project. If this Government were to take the establishment of the provinces only as its project, it would not only be able to follow these most optimistic hands, but it could also go beyond them, because these four basic laws: the Law on the Provinces, the Law on the Financing of the Provinces, the Law on the Elections of the Provinces and the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of the Provinces were prepared shortly after the amendment of the Constitution. If we did not want to harmonise this more broadly, the coalition could have done so peacefully in early autumn, the government would have adopted these laws and sent them to the National Assembly in the autumn. But we've decided another way. Many coordinations have been made, not only in the National Assembly, but also much broader, because it is a very complex issue. The very important debate was, for example, a consultation and presentation of laws with all Slovenian mayors. At this point, there are also those activities that are needed to get, as you wanted in the first round of coordination, the whole picture ahead of you. Part of this overall picture, which was also an explicit requirement, is the Law on the Designation of Areas of the Landscapes, which is not the most substantive, which is probably the most attractive. This law is now being prepared in the working version and it will be possible to seek agreement around the whole. This will be the most interesting debate and probably also the controversy about how many landscapes, where there will be a seat and so on. But an essential part of this change is the transfer of powers, sources of funding. All these solutions must be on the table in due time, as these financial issues, linked to the functioning of the provinces in early 2009, need to be included already in the 2009 budget. So, things have to be clean and clean at this stage. During this time, a second round of intersectoral coordination is under way, which will be completed shortly. Key work is being done on the issue of financing, the allocation of funds for the transfer of these powers. The Law on the establishment of electoral units for elections in the provincial councils is also being prepared, which is also necessary. And, of course, by the end of this year, the Law on redistribution or transfer of powers of the provinces should also be adopted. This image must be clear for the preparation of budgetary documents. This is an extremely complex work, and we want that when the first decision comes down - and finally you have asked for it - on this coordination, we already know what the next steps will be and what the final picture will be. The timeline presented at the start of this project is still current and is the only one that makes sense. It is reasonable that the first elections to the provincial authorities are at the same time as the next elections to the National Assembly and that, at that time, practically all the issues involved are resolved, even if there is a need for a delegation of powers to be made in several stages.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your answer. If your intention was to comfort me, let me say you weren't quite successful. But I like your optimism and your prediction that this will actually happen in spite of the backlog we are now witnessing to him. That's true, and in this case, you're right to say that they had to mature. This time, they have matured because the opposition is also espousing the changes needed to actually bring the provinces to life. But I do know that you have quite a few problems, including substantive ones, not only in financing, but also broader. I know that this is the most current question right now, and so I ask, do you already have an answer in the Government to this question: Will we have a single system, or will we have a amphibian at the province's level? Are we going to decide on a two-tier system, which means that at the provincial level, the state administration will also operate in parallel in the form of administrative thefts, where some tasks or even call them management tasks of administrative units will be transferred to administrative areas? This is probably a dilemma that is holding back the proposal or preparation of this legislation, but in this case, Mr President, also your opinion or your answer, whether there is a step forward in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u29	As far as the time dimension is concerned, one more time. In this package, the first package of provincial laws, which was said to be sent into procedure by the end of last year, were four laws. The fact that laws were sent to the procedure was not realized mainly because of the opposition's demand to add another fifth law to these four laws is said to be the Law establishing the provinces, the areas of the provinces and the settlements of the provinces. At the time, however, this was not fully prepared because we wanted to coordinate it separately, given that it was more political than substantive issues, while at the first, it was a very substantive issue, which was very large and which was more difficult. The demand was to get everything into one package. Now we have one package and we have to wait for this law. Interdepartmental coordination is taking place not only on this issue of unity, or duality, but also on some others, where things are very important. It's a very important matter. Before these coordinations are over, I would not like to express my position on these matters, because I do not want to influence my judgment. In the end, the government will decide and propose a system that we will consider to be the most rational, but also if it makes sense that we may come to such a solution in two stages, not just one, because this is a very big move. In some ways, one of the largest internal reorganisations in Slovenia's recent history will be aware of this. As far as the issue of optimism is concerned, this goal will be achieved if we all work for it. I'm glad you're ready. Not only because these solutions need to be taken by a two-thirds majority, but because this step cannot actually be done in a qualitative way without a consensus, for the first time, that this step is needed, for the second time, about what those key solutions are. I think we're close, no matter how much time we've spent coordinating it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you. The following question will be asked by Mr Jože Tanko to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. Slovenia has taken over the euro as the only new member this year and has become one of the 13 EU countries that have this currency for their national currency. The precondition for taking over the euro was the fulfilment of the demanding and required Maastricht conditions, which could only be met in cooperation with the executive and monetary authorities. They are both independent and independent, yet they must cooperate and also coordinate some things. The joint work of the two worked well together in the euro. However, monitoring the operation of the banking system and the supervision of monetary transactions is an extremely important task, which it also has, or is a key task that the Bank of Slovenia has. For many years there have been records and findings that this part of Banka Slovenije has not been carried out in accordance with the tasks conferred by the Bank of Slovenia Act and other international acts. The remaining issues and affairs related to the illegal operation at the branches of the New Ljubljana Bank in New York are the so-called LBS Bank. In Frankfurt, it is the LHB branch, as well as the LHB branch from Frankfurt, Ljubljana, which is LHB Finance d.o.o. The role of Banka Slovenije in the design of HKS at Safti, Peri and elsewhere is not explained. The poor supervision of banks has also allowed unsanctioned indebtedness and alienation of companies' assets in accounts abroad, and many of these companies have also failed. Some of this money was later used in the property transformation of companies. I wonder: How do you assess your operation and cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia during the period of the euro takeover? I wonder: How do you assess the work of the Bank of Slovenia in ensuring the legal functioning of the banking system? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you very much for the question or two sets of questions. The first is current in view of the fact that, at least recently in the public eye, there has been an impression that the only work of the Bank of Slovenia has been preparing for the takeover of the euro. Here the government repeats the position that we have already given several times that cooperation at the time of the key preparations for the takeover of the euro in Slovenia was good that as early as early as 2005 a group that participated was established, representatives of both the Bank of Slovenia and the Government were in it and that all the procedures here were very constructively coordinated. Perhaps the Bank of Slovenia has not exploited all the potentials that exist there, so that some things may be placed even more effectively. But the final score is good. Today, when two months have passed since the introduction of the common currency, we can also assess that some fears have not been realized, how this will lead to a major rise in inflation, and that Slovenia will, I don't know, repeat some negative practice of some countries that have introduced the euro before it. On the contrary, exactly inflation movements during these two months were favourable or deflationary both in January and February, and this further confirms the correctness of the measures taken by both the Government and the Bank of Slovenia. When it comes to other tasks that Banka Slovenije had after its establishment, it is necessary to say that Banka Slovenije is in some way subordinate to the National Assembly and the National Assembly appoints all key functions in this bank, Banka Slovenije also reports to the National Assembly. In previous mandates, we were often dissatisfied with these reports because they were stalemate because many times it was said that something should not be said because of such and other things. And we have encountered similar information or non-information in this mandate. Here are the things that have become unclear because there were no proposals, not only sanctions when it comes to large funds from taxpayers or savers, which have been lost in one way or another, but the well-known story of Triglav Bank, the SIB of the Bank, which is newer, is a series of failed nutritional credit services where, in our opinion, the Bank of Slovenia has not performed its protection role, so that 10,000 Slovenian citizens have lost their savings and it is a matter of the legality of the branches of some Slovenian banks abroad, which have been emerging mainly in recent times, sporadically, but, as it all appears, the operation of these branches despite very clear legal obligations has not been adequately controlled by this institution, but also when controls have been carried out, there are no measures that would have been taken to prevent illegal conduct. There are known cases where large loans were granted, large loans without adequate verification procedures, when these credits were used to purchase companies in Slovenia in strange circumstances, there are known cases where the daughters of Slovenian banks operating abroad set up banking organisations in Slovenia, although this is explicitly prohibited by law. When this was revealed, there were no appropriate sanctions. Cases are known when people convicted in court for abuse of power in one bank were then given a job in another bank and Banka Slovenije tolerated this. Recently, some issues or dilemmas related to successful issues have also been raised, where Banka Slovenije’s individual procedures are also highly questionable. This is what Members are asking. The government is now trying to answer them. Many cannot be answered without the cooperation of the Bank of Slovenia management. We expect that this cooperation will be and that the Government will be able to explain further in its written replies [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The things you're asking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you. At the 24th meeting of the National Assembly, Member Josip Bajc asked the Minister of the Interior, Mr Dragontin Mate, a question concerning the exercise of control over the implementation of article 21 of the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace. Since the Minister was not present, the Member requested an oral reply to the next meeting of the assembly, so I now give the floor to the Minister to answer the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members! Thank you for asking. As you know, last year, in the second half of the year, 21.7., a new law has been in force, which has also limited the movement of minors or under 16 years of age in establishments where alcoholic beverages are poured, or events where alcoholic beverages are poured, without the presence of parents, caregivers and other legal persons. In accordance with this law and the orientation of the law, the police immediately began to carry out two types of activities. The first activity is preventive action, which is also foreseen by the law. To this end, local police carried out a number of activities, interviews with owners of restaurants, with staff working in restaurants, with various activities in primary and secondary schools where activities related to this law were preventively presented. And, of course, she also acted repressively. So in this period, last year, if I say so, we detected 25 violations. All violators have been punished with fines following a rapid procedure. During these 25 infringements, 14 infringements were detected by the owner of the place that was involved in this number and against which it was taken. Nor have repeated and repeated visits to these sites, where we have detected these violations, detected repeated violations, so that we can claim that there have been no repeated violations following these violations, which have been detected and sanctioned. The police will continue both with preventive and repressive action, but we feel that we are somehow assessing that only the adoption of this law has acted preventively and that the effects to which some were initially skeptical appear. There are also real effects that we also wanted to achieve that persons under the age of 16 do not go to liquor bars after midnight until 5:00 in the morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you. We are now moving on to the first round of new issues for Members and Members. Mag. Borut Saiovic will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Secretary and the rest of the Council of Ministers! My parliamentary question concerns agrarian communities. Members of former agrarian communities are one of those who, after World War II, suffered great injustice over the abolition of agrarian communities and the confiscation of their property. The Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights, which has been in force since 1994, provided the basis for the correction of these injustices. All these years, members have faced considerable difficulties and misunderstandings from competent authorities in re-establishing and organising agrarian communities and restoring property and rights. One of the problems that plague agrarian communities is the issue of inheritance. In accordance with Article 12 of that Act, the name of the agricultural community and the shares of the natural persons of former members shall be entered in the land register on the basis of a legal decision on the restitution of property rights. Of course, in practice it is often the case of already deceased members, which causes long-term and complex succession procedures. All this time, agrarian communities are limited in practice and facts in their development. I can give you two examples from the congregation from which I come. The home of the agrarian community cannot be legally established in its original state, we cannot repair the abandoned sandstone, on a number of tables which are essential for the inhabitants of that area, the restoration does not take place as it should. In these proceedings, the competent authorities shall consistently require the powers and consent of all owners and shall not comply with the rules of the agrarian communities resulting from the rules applicable in the seizure of property rights after II. World War II. In view of the fact that a two-thirds majority of all members of the agrarian community are required to make decisions and for some normal consensus. Dear Minister: Do you have any solutions at the Ministry to solve these problems in practical life? If possible, as soon as possible. Of course, agrarian communities also face problems related to the digitisation of the land book. This results in a discrepancy between the digital form of the earth’s book and that of the original copy. While I am aware that the digitisation of the land book is substantively, organisationally and technologically extremely difficult, such a project should also take into account all the exceptions; and agrarian communities in this area certainly have an exception in both substantive and legal terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. Mr. President of the National Assembly. Thank you, too, for the question. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly. In response, I would like to clarify that the purpose of the Act was to re-establish agrarian communities and to return their property and rights, in particular, to return property rights to members of the agrarian community rather than to agrarian communities as legal entities, since the agrarian community does not have the status of a legal person, which is explicitly laid down in Article 2 of the Act. This Article provides that the agricultural community is a natural and legal person who is not a legal person. The property rights shall be returned to members of the agrarian communities organised under this Act at their request or at the procedure for returning property to members of the agrarian communities, at the request of any member or joint representative, shall be deemed to be authorised by all members. The re-establishment of an agrarian community does not have the status of a denationalisation beneficiary. A member of the agrarian community may exercise only the extent of the property rights that he or she held when he or she was held. If, therefore, the former holder of property rights is already dead or declared dead, the returned property rights shall be considered as assets later found and their inheritance shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Succession Act. However, the duration of the succession proceedings depends not only on the number of cases dealt with by the courts but also on the complexity of the individual case, in particular on the number of members of the individual agrarian community, the number of already deceased members of this community and the inevitable number of disputes between heirs. It's hard to solve quickly questions that no one's solved in 60 years. It is difficult to establish the former state after all this time, but the law gives this possibility. Of course, it can't be arranged overnight. The question is, when, in practice, the digitisation of the land book creates a discrepancy between the data transferred, between the data in the land book and the cadastral. It is only possible to say here that in specific cases individual district courts decide on the entries in the land book. However, the Supreme Court is also competent to monitor the case law concerning the registration of property of members of the agrarian community and the determination of the uniform implementation of the provisions of the Land Book Act. However, in accordance with the law, property rights may only be entered on natural or legal persons. However, since, under the second provision of the Law on the Re-establishment of an Agrarian Community and the Return of a Property, the Agrarian Community is not a legal person, but the Community is a special community, a community of natural and legal persons, and is not a legal person itself, so in this case it is not possible to exercise a common identity or a common right of an agrarian community as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. This is said to be the answer to the question that there is no change of legislation in this area in the near future. And if I understood you correctly: Are you suggesting that these agrarian communities as a community of 20, 30 owners in their operations will be more operational if these assets are distributed among individual co-owners? This is said: In the near future, there is no way to expect a solution that would give them the assurance that the conclusions of an agrarian community, because obviously never and never will be a legal person, will the two-thirds majority of the members be valid?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u43	Thank you, too, for this question raised again. The law has solved the issue of the establishment of former property rights for former members of the agrarian community, and now this process of establishing this property is still under way. As is the Act on Denationalisation, which has not yet been fully completed, the return of assets to members of agrarian communities has not yet been fully completed in its implementation. Once these procedures have been fully completed, it is not possible to exclude any law that would redevelop the status of organisations such as agrarian communities, but to obtain a comprehensive picture, it is reasonable to wait for these procedures to be largely completed at least at the rate of return to individual members, so that the process of possible abandonment proceedings can continue in such a case, even if existing legislation is complemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask a question from the Minister of Public Administration and the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Recently, more and more people have been turning to me with questions about their injustices as a result of nepotism, clientism and corruption. These people are alerting the obvious forces to the problem of this country and society. The latest study on the economic and business environment also confirms that corruption is still a very big problem for us. According to companies surveyed, nepotism and corruption of public servants and officials in the award of public contracts and corruption of public servants and officials in the acquisition of business are the most influential. In short, the electoral promise of the current government to settle these thievings if it gets people's trust, it floated "down the Sava". The answer I received from the Minister of the Interior statistically shows that in Slovenia these three disadvantages: nepotism, clientism and corruption are almost gone. What's more, nepotism and clientelism are incompetences that the police don't follow. But if only today’s press is overtaken, you will have the opportunity to spot all three of these incompetences. The mayor's opposition to Isola, the clienteleism of the Ministry of Environment in PUK, the suspicion of corruption in the hiring of helicopters, the granting of medical concessions and so on, not to mention. So the carpet under which the current authority sweeps these incompetences is obviously very long and even thicker. In view of the written reply of the Minister of the Interior, with which I regret not being able or able to answer certain questions, I ask the Minister, does the Government or the Ministry of Public Administration have an overview of how many bodies within the Government and individual ministries already have specific integrity plans? And secondly, what are the concrete results of the fight against nepotism, clientism and corruption? How many judicial epilogues have been completed in such cases in 2006? How many were connected to the work of the public administration authorities and how many local communities?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you. Who's first? Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Kumer, for the question. I'm going to answer that part about integrity plans. Let me say hello to you on this occasion and also to say that I think we have completed a series of questions sent about the incompatibility between the functions of the Government and the members of the supervisory councils. The government has arranged this now, and I would have arranged it otherwise, but perhaps because of your insistence it was faster for a week or so. As far as integrity plans are concerned, I must first say that the Anti-Corruption Act provides that all state authorities shall adopt these plans in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. The Commission has adopted these guidelines and has also set deadlines. The first deadlines expire on 14 June this year for bodies under 50 employees, the next deadline expires on 14.9.2007 and the deadline for larger bodies on 14.3.2008. So there's not a single organ in a delay in drawing up an integrity plan. Although the Anti-Corruption Act has been repealed by the Law on the Incompatibilities of Public Functioning with Profitful Activity, you know that the Constitutional Court has retained this second law, which means that the provisions on the integrity plan are still in force and have been taken seriously by all the authorities of the State Administration. Given that we have a Commission to prevent corruption, we do not have a specific record in our ministry of how integrity plans are being adopted, so we have a special commission to which the authorities also report. Due to your question, we have specifically collected these data and found that all the authorities of the state administration have taken seriously the preparation of these plans, that everyone in the preparatory phase has prepared a programme for the development of the integrity plan, appointed appropriate working groups, identified critical, risky points, risky activities and assessed existing preventive mechanisms, and that the final phase is intended to propose improvements. According to our data, two bodies have already completed their work and adopted an integrity plan, namely the Labour Inspectorate and the Lenart Administrative Unit, while the others are in one of these stages. In particular, if you want, we have details for administrative units, because you know that our ministry covers or is responsible for the functioning of administrative units, and here we have accurate data from the administrative unit to the administrative unit, we monitor this closely and we assure you that all these deadlines will be respected. Statistics on offences related to the official duty will be presented by a colleague of Minister Šturm. I might mention just one fresh case that I've been following and is happening in the tax administration. It was a member of the Tax Office in Cyprus who was suspected of corruption. On the basis of the reasonable suspicion of the criminal service, the President, the Director of the Tax Administration, also after consulting our Ministry, after which it is most prudent to carry out this procedure, issued an exceptional termination of the employment relationship on 22.11.2006, the staff member complained to the Board for Complaints, lost his and his employment relationship was definitively cancelled. He was also detained, and the criminal proceedings against him are under way. As much as one such fresh, typical school case of corruption that has been discovered, so far in the stage of justified suspicion. The President, the director of the tax administration, reacted immediately, cancelled the employment relationship as necessary. The penalty procedure is ongoing. As far as statistics are concerned, the numbers are from Minister Sturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you. Mr. Sturm, you don't have much time, but please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you. With regard to statistics, I would say that on the questions about the data for 2006, I should say that this data is collected and processed by the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia, which has not yet completed the data for 2006, so we cannot provide them either. However, we must also be aware that the figures on the number of convicted persons and the total number of judgments issued do not come at the end of the final proceedings. Thus, all these data are retrospective, which are now available or available for 2006, because the proceedings in the courts in these cases are not among the fastest procedures, nor is it because the participants use all the remedies. On the other hand, they also need to be given all the procedural rights they are entitled to. These are procedures that last on average four or five years, some even longer. Therefore, the real picture of what will happen during this government's term will only be known later. It is true, however, that the Government is aware of this issue and that it is dealt with in a systematic way. This has also been demonstrated by amendments to the Law on State Prosecutors and on the Law in Criminal Procedure, by the fact that the detection, investigation and prosecution of criminal offences committed by police officers have been taken out of the jurisdiction of the police administration and transferred to a special group at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. This law, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, has already been adopted and will also enter into force this year. This is also an important comprehensive contribution to the fight against corruption, and we have pointed out this, which will show its results only in the future. Let me also say that there is a very regular coordination of work between the State Prosecutor's Office and between the Police at the highest level, that coordination is high, that these meetings are coordinated and regular, so that we can expect a substantial improvement in this case, as has been the case in recent years.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. Since there is no data for 2000, there will be only one paragraph of data for 2005, and I think 2006 will, but I can be wrong, significantly different. In 2005, the competent courts ruled on six persons, four of whom were convicted of a crime and bribery service and two acquitted charges concerning the offence of bribery and unlawful intervention. This is all work in 2005 by the judicial authorities. Otherwise, what Minister Virant said would be the following: proof that these numbers and other corrupt and clientistic acts are not so small in Slovenia is, last but not least, evidence that you have adopted this regulation or this decree in the Government concerning incompatibility, and even more important is what the largest SDS party has adopted in its statute, which has also set the most personnel in the last two years. And while the argument that they have stated that they want to prevent the exploitation of internal information is indeed a catastrophic argument, because for these types of thievery there are laws to sanction these offenders, something else is more important. That's why I'm asking. If SDS identifies corruption and clientism as a problem: Why then do the authorities empowered to do so - let the police, the prosecution and the judiciary have no more extensive statistics? If one political party changes the statute for this! Last but not least, I would warn you, along with those who advocated the abolition of the Kosovo Commission, to remember what you said a year and a month ago in this National Assembly on the topic of corruption in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Virant, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you. Given that these are parliamentary issues to the Government and Ministers, of course, I would not comment on the behaviour of individual political parties, but I would say why the Government has adopted decisions and regulations regarding membership in supervisory councils and management bodies. It has taken a decision on the complete incompatibility between the functions of the Government, i.e. the functions of ministers, secretaries of state, and the membership of the supervisory boards and management bodies of companies in the majority state ownership, either directly or indirectly, mainly because we have assessed that ministers and state secretaries are fully employed in their functions, so full of employment that it is simply difficult to remain a time for serious participation in the supervisory councils. However, I must say that this is a move that no government has made so far; we have never had such a restrictive separation. We have also set limits for public servants and, above all, have regulated the level of meetings in the supervisory boards and other management bodies, so that it is regulated, transparent that the amounts of these meetings are reasonable, are not too high and that these rules also apply to companies owned by the SOD, the KAD and the DSU; this is said, even in indirect state ownership, which is not yet in force. So I think this is quite an important step forward. I would not say, however, that this has some direct connection with corruption; it is actually a matter of determining incompatibilities, because the burdens of officials are already so extensive that the service takes all the time and it is difficult to exercise membership in any supervisory world.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you. Mr. Sturm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you. The information provided by the honourable Member for 2005 shows an image from 2000 or 2001 because that was when the cases took place in the previous Government. I myself have seen that court proceedings are not such that at a time when the government or law enforcement authorities have detected a problem, the court has jumped and begun to judge with expressity. There are no such cases, the courts judge in accordance with their function, and these procedures are long-term. The real data on the work of this Government will only be reflected in the work of the courts after an appropriate period of time, which will certainly be in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Kumer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. Now I really suggest that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u58	Mr. Sturm, if you turn it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u59	I now really propose that, on the basis of Article 246, paragraph 2, the National Assembly still takes this much time and that we may discuss in this National Assembly the assessment and situation in the field of clientelism, corruption and nepotism. Finally, I must say that the President of the Government has responded to one part of this issue today, which goes far back, but I agree that we can also speak frankly about this problem for such a period of time in this National Assembly. Minister, Dr. Sturm, I can also give you for 2004, but at the time six people were convicted and all others were dismissed. I would also like to reply to Minister Virant to support that this debate can be a good one. I am really pleased that I have spent two years convincing you that this is really not only about the incompatibilities of functions that may result in clientism or also elements of corruption, but mainly because of the responsibility of those jobs for which you have accepted a position or some responsibility in this country. However, I would like to tell you that this matter that I am talking about is not resolved and I would like to quote you on the statement made by one of the eminent representatives of the SDS, this is Dr. Jože Zagozhen, who said the following - now that this decision has been adopted: "I prefer to be a counsellor from the background than a member of the party's body." That's it. It is not a matter of withdrawal from the economy, clienteleism and, subsequently, elements of corruption can also be of a special nature. I would quote some other people on the basis of these statistics, which say that in Slovenia "breathes" after corruption and customerism, not only does this problem exist, but directly when you get on the road, you already smell that something is wrong. And once again, take today's newspaper, and in today's newspaper alone, you have four cases of all these three misdemeanors -- I'll use your expression when you've been in opposition, these thievings that you'll end when you come to power. And now you've been in power for two years, and I urge you, Minister Sturm, not to wait until the next term, but to now step on some of our fingers and prevent it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you. This was not a procedural proposal, but a debate. We are continuing with the questions raised by the Member States: Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister and Ministers, Mr Christmas! In the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, adopted on 3 May 2006, which is a bad year ago, we wrote that the biker is an equal participant in transport, so we need to pay more attention to it as part of the development of the entire transport infrastructure. The surfaces for cyclists must be designed so that cyclists are less vulnerable and more responsive to road users. As the main task, we have therefore written a reduction in the number of cross-points between bikers and motor traffic, i.e. the separation of cycling and motor traffic wherever the situation allows. Among the measures we have written down that we will build additional traffic areas, especially those that eliminate critical places, so-called bottlenecks. A number of general objectives on bicycles and cycling routes have also been written down, namely to implement measures to promote walking, the use of bicycles and public passenger transport and to raise the environmental awareness of the population. At European Union level, an initiative has been launched to develop a network of cycling links across Europe and in this context Slovenia is also involved in these cycling international links. We have also written down that positive transport policy measures will be measured by increasing the levels of uninterrupted cycling routes. Six months later, we adopted a resolution on the national road safety programme for the period 2007-2011, where we reiterated the safety of bikers, including pedestrians and cyclists among the most vulnerable groups of road users, in particular children and adolescents and over 65 years of age. We are supposed to encourage the development of cycling and so on. Schools, content related to road safety play an important role in this regard, and among many measures is the commitment to encourage local communities to build cycling routes. It is true to build cycling routes in the domain of local communities, but it makes sense, if not necessarily, to include the country in the wider areas of several local communities - for example, landscape parks, the Ljubljana Barriers and the like - not only in financial terms, but mainly in coordination. While both documents are new but binding on some of the yearbooks, I ask: What have we done in both documents, or what measures are being taken? And also: Is it possible to evaluate the results already, how far is the network of cycling links across Europe, and what have we done about it in Slovenia? And: How do you encourage local communities to build bicycle paths? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u62	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The first part of the question, or the first question, would answer what we have done from the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia and the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme for the period 2007-2011 or what measures are already being implemented and what are the results of these measures. Road safety of bikers is crucial for the popularisation of cycling, for the planning and construction of new cycling surfaces and for improving the situation on existing cycling surfaces. The biker is a very sensitive road user, which is why it is also given more attention. In the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme for the period 2007-2011, cyclists are listed in addition to pedestrians as the most vulnerable groups of road users. In the context of promoting the development of cycling, the following measures are proposed in the document: for the first time, the implementation of the apprentice training programme for cycling in primary school; for the second time, the implementation of preventive actions for cyclists, such as competitions, cycling trips. Third, promoting the use of protective equipment for cyclists, in particular cyclists' helmets, then repressive action against drivers who stop or park vehicles on bicycle tracks and, lastly, the control of drivers of single-way vehicles driving on traffic surfaces intended for them. On the basis of the National Road Safety Programme, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at its 107th meeting, on 1.2.2007, a similar road safety plan in 2007, setting out, inter alia, that preventive supervision of road users is carried out during this year and that there is increased control of road transport. On the second question of how far is the network of cycling links across Europe and what Slovenia has done on this point, I provide the following information; at an international convention held in Brussels on 9 September 1996, it was agreed that the European Cyclist Federation cycle route had prepared a proposal for the development of a network of cycling links across Europe on the basis of which they would be built and run across many European countries. In the international project Slovenia is involved with two European connections: number 9, Jantar direction Baltic-Jadran, this is the direction of Vienna-Gradec-Maribor-Ljubljana-Trst-Koper-Pula; number 8, Mediterranean direction Gibraltar-Athena and this is the connection between Gibraltar-Barcelona-Monaco-Benek-Trst-Ilirska Bistrica-Reka-Adriatic coast and Athens. The funds earmarked by the State for the construction of cycling projects, from year to year, but are steadily increasing, were earmarked for autonomous exclusively cycling projects in 2004, 200 million tolars, 2005-250, 2006-330, and 450 million tolars are reserved for this year, or slightly less than two million euros in 2008; and in 2008 the country plans around 700 million tolls or 3 million euros for exclusively cycling projects. Seven sections of state bicycle links were built within the framework of the state cycling network in 2006 and a total length of 6.6 km started to produce project documentation on eight more sections. It is planned that a total of 2,600 km of state cycling network will be implemented over the next 25 years. And last question, third: How do we encourage local communities in the implementation of cycling routes? We encourage local communities to co-finance the execution of sections of state cycling links within their territory in all stages of the implementation of these: the production of project documentation, the purchase of land, the execution of construction works. The effectiveness of the planned measures, which improve the conditions for safe and attractive cycling, requires active cooperation at both the state and local level planning stages. Local communities need to participate in the design of the state cycling network, as they actually know their area, tourist attractions, customs and the needs of people who live and generate income there. According to the Law on Public Roads, the municipality is obliged to finance the regulation of transport areas, facilities and installations necessary on the State road for the safe development of traffic and the regulation of traffic arrangements in settlements. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads as State Road Manager and the municipality may also agree on joint financing for the regulation of these surfaces. Thus, the development programme plan prioritizes those road arrangements through settlements or those construction of those cycling routes where each local community has shown interest in, and will co-finance, the emergency regulation of the municipal infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you, Minister. Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. At the time of the visit of the Government in Pomour, among other things, the issue of the perspective of the barracks, specifically the military barracks in Murska Sobota, opened. There you stated, inter alia, that the military station for 200 soldiers in Murska Sobota will be built by 2010, which you guarantee with the medium-term defence programme from 2007 to 2012 and the budgets adopted - I stress the budgets adopted. At the urgent meeting of the Committee of the National Defence Council, which referred to the LDS initiative entitled The perspective of the military barracks in Murska Sobota and the further development of military infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia, we received completely other information from the State Secretary and Deputy General Staff, namely the Chief of Staff, regarding the future prospects or construction of a military barracks in Murska Sobota. The secretary explained to us that the military station would probably be built by 2012 and that it was not yet definitively determined how many members would really be there, and also in a letter of intent signed between the Municipal Municipality of Murska Sobota and your Ministry, the exact number was not defined, but mostly until the rank of the battalion. Since it has once again turned out that you are declaring things which then do not fully hold, and to avoid any further doubts and, in particular, misunderstandings, then also different interpretations, you, honourable Minister, I ask and would really like concrete answers. On what basis can you ensure that the military station in Murska Sobota will be built by 2012 or after your statement even by 2010? Specifically: What budget does this guarantee us? Because the plan is one thing that changes very quickly. We're interested in the calculations. And if so: For what projects in the area of reconstruction or construction of military infrastructure are the funds provided for in the 2007 and 2008 budgets? Another question. Given that more and more departures and more departures than arrivals are increasing in the Slovenian Army and less interest in the profession of soldier among young people, I wonder: When and how will you and the ministry that you run, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] start dealing with this issue - by regulating the conditions for both military infrastructure arrangements and the status of a professional soldier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. First, let me explain that the issue of the Murski Sobota military did not open on my visit to Murski Sobota. This issue was raised at the time of my term of office, because I looked at the long-term plans and plans of the Slovenian Armed Forces and where I could find in the long-term programme of development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces that the previous Government, according to the LDS Government, predicted the abolition of this barracks in Murski Sobota, because they believed, on the basis of the professionalization of the Slovenian Army, that they would concentrate on individual centres: Ljubljana - the first brigade, in Celje will be the 20th motorized battalion and in Maribor an armored unit. Among other things, even in Slovenska Bistrica, the military station would be abolished. Of course, I objected and, therefore, in amending the medium-term defence programme for the period 2007-2012, we have foreseen that the military station in Murska Sobota will remain; not only will it remain, but we will even build a new few kilometres away from the current location in Murska Sobota. And given that there is a great deal of interest on the part of the local community, there should be a school centre and some other development potentials to be built in this area, at the initiative of the Municipality of Murska Sobota, I also signed a letter on the intention last June, the year of 16 June, in which we set mutual commitments. The Ministry of Defence's obligation was to make a mid-term plan for the relocation of this barracks outside the Murska Sobota, while the municipality was to commit itself to preparing the appropriate plans and to participate in the acquisition of the site plan. Thus, by my credit and thanks to this Government, the military station in Murska Sobota will not be abolished because I consider this government and the Ministry of Defence to be a great success. Again, he wants me to read or label that I was misinterpreted again. It is interesting that Members of the Liberal Democracy in particular always misinterpret me, I do not know whether they are listening to me or reading documents, because if you read the documents, it would not be necessary to explain again here on the questions sent, given that we had a special meeting of the Defence Committee, where it was very detailed what the fate of the military in Murska Sobota was. As I said, the legal basis is the medium-term defence programme for the period 2007-2012, for the 2007-2008 budget, funds are foreseen, namely for the 2007 budget, EUR 50 000 for the development of an idea design, in 2008 EUR 200 000 for the preparation of project documentation, so that we can count 2009, 2010 so that the construction of the Murska Sobota military station can already take place. If construction is going to take place without complications, I think it is a real time that by the end of 2010, the new barracks could be built if all the proceedings were to run as they would like. However, it is true that the medium-term defence programme foresees that this military station will be completed in 2012, but I think it is right that, as Minister of Defence, I would like to insist that we try to build this as soon as possible, especially because Pomurje is a swimming pool where we cover new personnel where interest is in the Slovenian Army. On the second question, let me say that there is actually less interest in the profession in the Slovenian Army, but this is due to too low wages. As I've already said, wages are moving at the moment 120 thousand tolars, and that's a salary that's not attractive to a soldier. Some soldiers say they get a higher salary for less demanding jobs, for example if it's a storekeeper in BTC or say [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Slavinec. Probably a follow-up?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u69	Yeah, sure. Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it is not that I am the only one who misinterprets you, because we have nothing to understand you at all, but if you spend three quarters of your time explaining one fact that no one is asking you questions and then reduces your time for specific questions that I wanted specific answers to, then there will be no different interpretations. That is why, of course, I also advertise to give you the answer to the question that your time has interrupted. So it's not just pay, it's very well known, it's the whole status of soldiers, it's their perspective, and it's not finally their working conditions, because these are very difficult working conditions if they have to drive to work two hours a day and then again two hours a day from work back. Now, let's leave this because there's been a lot of talk about it, but unfortunately not the right answers. I wonder: How many soldiers will be in the military in Murski Sobota in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012? Of course not to one exactly, but probably the Slovenian Army has a certain perspective, it also has some kind of program, and on the basis of this, I am interested in how many soldiers there will be, because we all know very well that once you reduce the number of soldiers in this barracks, what is happening now, what you are doing, will then very quickly manifest other needs and other prospects for further development and will be easier [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] not to approach construction, but to really apply what you promise. [[...]] As I said, in this program you can change very quickly then. I'd be very grateful for that information.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you for your question. And I'll tell you the same thing again. We're not going to stop the military at Murska Sobota, but we're going to build a new one that's going to be in line with all of the then standards. And we will even increase the number of soldiers in this new army in Murska Sobota. It's about 200 soldiers. At this point in time or in the past, there were some 120 soldiers and 30 of them who served voluntarily in Murska Sobota. Specifically, in 2007, 2008, 2009, let me say that we assume that in an old army that no longer meets the standards, there will be up to 100 soldiers, that is to say, about 100 soldiers to be held until 2009. When the new army, as I said, will be 200 soldiers, by 2010 we will start to increase the number of soldiers because we will begin to complete the 74th Motorized Battalion and one company will also be in Murska Sobota. With regard to the status of soldiers, let me say that we are fighting for this status, namely, we will shortly put into the Service Law procedure in the Slovenian Army, where we will put in place various mechanisms to make the military profession more attractive; from the fact that it will be necessary to increase salaries for soldiers, because, as I said, these salaries are very poor and are uncompetitive and all analysis shows that this is the main reason that we are not getting new soldiers, and also the main reason that they are leaving us. I hope that when the marriage is in the National Assembly, I will receive your support. In this law, we also foresee different solutions, for example, for soldiers who will be 45 years old, because, as you know, we can no longer conclude a contract and can be a social problem. We will therefore have certain solutions to co-finance, for example, for five years, contributions to the employer so that we can instead co-finance contributions if we decide on a single trade as well as appropriate education programmes. We will also improve the care of family members, because, as you know, our military is involved in missions and this provision for family members is very important. So it's not like we're gonna shut down the military at Murski Sobota, but there's gonna be more soldiers there, 200 soldiers. And also with regard to the status of soldiers, we will improve the status with the Service Act in the Slovenian Army.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Slavinec, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. I want to make a procedural proposal. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a general discussion on this subject at the next meeting. I base the proposal first and foremost on the incomplete response of the distinguished minister. You say, "up to 100 soldiers." One soldier is also "up to 100 soldiers," right, and I'm interested in how many there will be. And once again, a statement three times higher that you wouldn't hunt me down for five soldiers, 35 was the number we talked about on the committee. 35 is also "up to 100 soldiers" and therefore such a general response, which allows different interpretations, is not the kind of thing we talked about here. I also base the proposal on the fact that it is not just a very important job for Pomurje, it is also a general situation in the Slovenian Army and, last but not least, it is a military unit which is in a region that borders only on three neighbouring countries, and therefore of course this is of fundamental importance. Finally, I would just like to point out once again very explicitly why I am asking these questions - because there is a strong fear in the local environment that when the number of soldiers is reduced, then your promise will not be fulfilled and this war machine will really be built. That's one thing. But the other thing is, of course, irrationality, now that you're reducing the number of soldiers. I have not received a firm response from the Committee that all the possibilities have indeed been exhausted for the number of soldiers to be maintained at the existing level during this transitional period and will therefore be of general benefit if this debate is held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Slavinac to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mag. Majda Potrat will now ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology and at the same time the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. The year 2007 is the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All, and during the German Presidency will be a group that will be specifically targeted, a group of young people. The students' families belong to this group within two parameters, so I thought it was worth asking a question, which is related to two events: with a press release, Litostro's new dormitory does not accept students' families, this was a message from the Student Family Club and a message from the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology after the meeting of the project council for the implementation of the project on the renovation of student housing. He announced increased funds and standard unification, and I am also interested in: Are you, Mr. Minister, at this meeting or have you ever said anything else about the housing of student families? These are in Ljubljana around 200, students' homes in Ljubljana provide only 44 beds of slightly less than 8 000; and the number of beds is no problem for families. It's about the surface, the equipment, the possibility of moving. It doesn't matter where the student family is. In Maribor, for example, student families are treated better than in Ljubljana. I therefore ask you, Mr. Minister, how will you ensure equal treatment for students' families when staying in student homes in Slovenia as well as equal availability of accommodation? I ask you, Minister Marjeta Cotman, how will you ensure equal treatment for students in the allocation of financial social assistance and thus equal access to financial social assistance? Since student families do not receive any special social transfer, student families have a scholarship, they are entitled to social assistance, they have a child allowance, but they receive only one third of the subsistence allowance from parents, as has been found. Maintenance is considered to be the own income of the student family, and if parents enforce it at income, then the social work centres also reduce cash social assistance by 55% - some centres. And here exactly how the centers decide what they're going to allocate and how much they're going to get, it's given me [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Minister, Madam Minister, you have five minutes together. Who's first? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the questions, honourable Member. The government is aware of the problem you are talking about, that the provision of student beds and student residences, especially for students' families, are extremely important. That is why at the last meeting you are talking about, we discussed this issue at a meeting of the project council for the construction and reconstruction of student homes. However, we discussed under the new rule we have proposed, and in this rule we have explicitly touched on the issues of both students with special needs and students' families. We have foreseen in this Regulation that in construction, because this rule applies to the construction of new homes and also to the adaptation of old ones, because we know that the current homes are essentially inappropriate for students to settle in these homes. The conclusions or proposals, I hope they will be adopted, were precisely in the case of these two categories of which we are talking about to agree on a target of about 6% of the units - for students' families and for students who have special needs. In the distribution, if this happens, we do not think that there will be, because at the moment there are 29 families in the student settlements and it should be stressed that we are very happy that none of the families have been rejected. So none of the families that asked for housing in the settlements were turned down. With these percentages, according to our calculations about 60 apartments, which is, of course, even more than it is, but here it is necessary to say that students with special needs still have to be guaranteed an accompanying person, because then it takes some space. The next thing you have to say is that for the first time, student beds are more than necessary. We have practically 850 free cities and a new invitation to tender has been made. The fact is that one part of this is also a high price. We must also say that it has also been explicitly agreed in this regulation that we will require a minimum, it is said, for money to make the most number of student beds, which means - and we have also found - that in the previous period when these homes were planned, there was a difference of between €27,000 per bed and €45,000 per bed, from €5 million to €10 million per bed, in Slovenian we imagine between €5 million and €10 million per bed. This is for the same money we could make more beds again, and this seemed extremely inappropriate to us. The fact is, it irritates the beds. And that's the subject we were dealing with. This topic was on the agenda and I think it is satisfactory to resolve it in a given process when all new homes have special beds for this population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. With regard to financial social assistance, I would say that student families have the same right to financial social assistance and also to exceptional social assistance as other families have. Money social assistance shall be eligible for any person who cannot survive from work or from work or insurance rights, or income from property, or by various remunerations or benefits under other regulations, or by the regulations of those who are obliged to survive it. For example, in a student family where students are both partners, parents are obliged to survive under the Survival Act and this part in which parents live is considered to be a periodic income when calculating financial social assistance. It also takes into account in the calculation of monetary social assistance the income earned by students through work through student service and is essentially called casual income. However, child allowances, scholarships and other benefits intended for education and training shall not be taken into account in the calculation of the eligibility for financial social assistance. As you yourself have already stated, in addition to this ordinary social assistance and outstanding social assistance to families, the student families, that the right, in particular those who are afraid, to a parental allowance, is 365 days after the birth of the child €170, then assistance at the birth of the child €244 and is also granted to the student family regardless of the status of the child’s allowance, which of course also takes into account the status of the parents. Also in the case of student diet, the new law on student diet subsidies provides for an additional 5 new student family vouchers in addition to the 5 previous ones. So the student family will now have 10 extra tickets per month. We also provide additional assistance to the families of students, where the total income of the family members will also be taken into account and so the student family will also have a greater allowance for the family in scholarships. However, this law has not yet been adopted and will be provided for in the law on scholarships. Social work centres, of course, decide freely who is to receive financial social assistance. The Centre for Social Work is decided primarily by those recipients, or as we call them beneficiaries, by financial social assistance in order to ensure minimum living needs at a level which, of course, enables survival and so decide in the case of the student families themselves, in terms of the allocation of financial social assistance and also in terms of exceptional financial social assistance. Such rights under the Survival Act are treated in the same way as in the grant to beneficiaries of financial social assistance in other families in relation to older persons, where the maintenance of children to parents or parents to children is also envisaged.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you. Mag. Do you have a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you very much for both your answers. I was especially encouraged by Dr. Zupan's response to make things right. Finally, in 2005, I asked questions about the reduction of the student's child's bed subsidy, because then the matter was settled and I am following up on this issue, which is why I am relying on the findings from the Student Family Club. Dear Minister, it is also in agreement with the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs in order to be treated as a single family that all their treatment is linked to the primary family that the centres decide to reduce the financial social assistance following a free judgement is what they oppose in the Student Family Club. After all, they lost the right to a child supplement, and the Peace Institute covered this statistical data that only 30% of them received maintenance from their parent or primary family. I would like to thank you for what you have said, but I would ask you whether you have also thought about allowing your parents equal treatment and allowing them to take parental leave instead of your mother and thereby exercise the right to extend the study, to exercise the right to an additional study year? The same as they ask, due to the possibility of free kindergarten for these 1,000 students as many as they should be, the number is not accurate, but it is not significantly higher. These are additional questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister, all three ministers, Members, Members of Parliament. I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you for the additional question to further clarify. The student’s mother does not have the right to a maternity allowance or to a child’s care and protection allowance, so she has the parental allowance, as mentioned earlier. And on the basis of this parental allowance given to him 365 days after the birth of the child, he has the right to receive a refund or EUR 170. So he doesn't have a maternity allowance as an employee. That's why he has the right to parental allowance. She also has the help of having a baby, just like other mothers. But I didn't realize they weren't equal to the other mothers. With the child supplement they are equivalent and even if the mother student lives with her parents, she has the right to a child supplement for her child, and these parents also have the right to a child supplement for her. So I don't really understand what it would be like to be affected by a child's allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The next is Mrs Possonchev, who will also ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would have one procedural question regarding today's assembly. We couldn't ask the question of agriculture. There are very current regulations and people very much expect an answer or solution because they are not satisfied with these regulations. They want to know how they're gonna run this year. The answer is urgent. But we will not plow this year, not just because we do not currently have an agricultural minister. I think that, for example, the Secretary of State can take responsibility and also answer the agricultural question. Thank you. I mean, if I don't even get an answer, but this, I warned you it wasn't right.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you. You want an explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u88	All I can say is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u89	Not me, but the people at home, because they're expecting an answer about the regulations.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u90	Mrs. Possonchev, have you finished telling you what this is all about? Indeed, it is not until tomorrow, most likely, that the Minister will not be elected and we do not have him at this time, and the Secretary of State cannot answer the questions. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u91	Good. Thank you. Now I would like to ask the Minister the following question: The last increase in pensions is very, very exciting, deploring and dividing pensioners into groups, because under the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, only certain groups of pensioners were entitled to an increase in pensions, and these are only apparent. Please explain to the pensioners why some have accepted four, two eight, the third twelve euro higher pensions, and some have not even accepted a raise. The saddest part is that people live so miserablely that these few euros mean so much to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Possonchev, for the question. Pensions, as you know, were coordinated in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance and Reconciliation Act of 3.2% and 3.8% respectively. All pensions are coordinated regardless of their height. Other benefits under the pension rules, such as the so-called security allowance, the aid and service allowance, the disability benefit of beneficiaries on the basis of the remaining working capacity, then the annual allowance, the allowance to pensioners recognised under the Law on Social Security to Slovenian nationals entitled to pensions from the republics of the former SFRJ and maintenance under the Law on the Maintenance of Farmers, shall be coordinated in accordance with the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia. Transfers are coordinated under certain conditions that have not been met this year, so transfers in January have not been harmonised and there is a difference in the coordination of pensions with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. By harmonising, as I said, only pensions, but not transfers, to beneficiaries who receive those transfers in addition to their pension. The total increase in remuneration is therefore lower. Pensioners whose pension is less than EUR 369 are eligible for the security allowance, including those who receive the pension has been adjusted by the same percentage as all other pension recipients, but have not been harmonised by the security allowance, as mentioned earlier, for that reason because there has been no harmonisation of transfers. In the event that the reconciliation of the pension amount carried out would exceed the amount of the basis for the assessment of the additional entitlements, the beneficiary would, of course, lose the protective allowance. There has been a difficult situation with regard to the safety supplement. For the security allowance is not expressed as a special benefit, but as part of the difference between the amount of the pension and the basis for the assessment of additional pensions to the censorship? In the novel of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, we will explore the possibilities for resolving this situation. But this law will soon be in the process itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The following question is raised by Dr Gantar, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, I am you and Vladi 15.10.2005, said one and a half years ago, raised a written question on the settlement of the action and the application by PUK concerning the rehabilitation of the beach of the Congestment and the remedial parts in the river Predelica. I asked you why you paid this order, even though it wasn't commissioned by the Ministry or taken over. The Ministry also objected to the fact that the PUK was also working on a rehabilitation project. In this reply, the Government stated that the work had been done, with the knowledge of the Ministry being carried out, evaluated and therefore paid. With this, Mr Minister, you have actually deceived and cited incorrect data, as the media have also revealed in recent days. That's why, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you a very simple question: Why did you cheat? And while I am asking you this question, I also want you to answer the following questions at the same time. Thus the PUK and the ILO refer in their replies to the legal basis of the Water Act, of course, of the old one, and to the decree on the determination of erosion areas and individual vertebrates, on which the working organisation for the regulation of vertebrates protects the surfaces from erosion, chandeliers and reptiles. This decree is from the far-reaching year 1970. It's certainly a delusion, Mr. Secretary. The project of remedial works far exceeds the framework of the Water Management Public Service and the scope of so-called investment maintenance works. Therefore, I would like to ask you to explain to me who approved the rehabilitation project or partial rehabilitation in the area of the beach of the Stože. Has the PUK done its work in accordance with this project? I also ask you: Did PUK have a signed concession contract or an annex to the concession contract for the current year at that time? I also ask you how can you ensure that all the works have been carried out and evaluated if the building books are held accountable at the Ministry of Environment and Space? And at the same time, at the end of the day, I would like to know why, Mr. Minister, you ignored the recommendation of a public defender who was advising the settlement, because it is obvious that the works carried out by the PSC were not ordered or at least challenged? And I would add to that, Mr Minister, how that when you arrived you changed so much of the people, the experts who were involved in this project, namely the rehabilitation of the beach of the Cologne and the exchange of them with people who have completely different views on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much, distinguished Member Dr. Gantar, many questions. I'll try to answer everything in a short time. Certainly one of the key personalities who led the rescue is Professor Dr. Majes, who is still in his post. Professionally manages the rehabilitation of all the largest beaches in the Republic of Slovenia, so that this latest information will by no means hold. I would also reject the basic intention in the parliamentary question that I was misleading the Government when I was preparing an answer to a question that was then adopted by the Government in the context of the government's procedure. A few of the questions you are addressing here today are already the answer to the parliamentary question itself from a year and a half ago, but I will try to give you a brief answer to your questions you have asked. First, however, it must be said that the Act on Measures to Eliminate the Constituent Beach in the Municipality of Bovec and the Largest Beaches of the Republic of Slovenia of 2000 speaks of the implementation of intervention measures. And they are particularly talking about what emergency measures are in the Predeleka, Koritnica and Soča to ensure a reduction of the threat. We know exactly what status intervention measures have. And we also know that, of course, the intervention works themselves do not require contracts. Then I have to tell you that he was a puh, I'd say competent. A competent contractor with more than a century of tradition, i.e. Water Management Public Service at the resorts, also in the Soča area in 2001. I must say, for the period from 1.1.2001 to 31.3.2001, he had a contract. The deal was made. I think it was concluded on 10 January of that year, as it was then concluded for the following months in those years. And this Treaty provides for the maintenance of natural streams, installations and installations under the Water Act and the Regulation on the manner in which the compulsory Republic of the Public Service in the field of water management is performed, and regulates the water regime to ensure protection against floods and erosion. And these were the works that the PUK at Log under Mangart did. The Treaty has signed - on our question - the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection. The Regulation on the manner in which the compulsory public service of the Republic in the field of the water economy, as well as the professional guidance on this, also sets out the scope of the maintenance of natural watercourses and other water and water reservoirs. And here it is complete, as set out in this document, as shown in these instructions, the eligibility and method of performing works in Logo under Mangart. You're asking about the intervention program. According to the information I have obtained in the last days - because I have been sent with all the many materials that were needed - it is clear that the programme of intervention works in the Loga area under Mangart has been sent to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of nature but interesting, and this will also, of course, be determined by a specific review of why it was happening at that time - every month and a half, this programme has been waiting on the table at that time for the competent one who, of course, should look at it, revise it and send it to reality. In the settlement process, you ask on the basis of which data which irrelevant data have been used. All those taken into account in the intervention works, at least six of them may be listed: the programme of intervention work in the Log area under the Mangart of February 2001, the intervention works in the Log area under the Mangart area following the launching of the beach of the Predelica, the final situation and the construction book, which was issued in April 2001, the engineering sketch formed from the temporary section of the Predelica and the encounter with the Koritnica, the idea project on the division of the Predelica and Kortnica streams from Gorenje Log to the Brain and the minutes of the first meeting of the PUK-MOP settlement commission of 12.7.2002. This is a number of quality documentation that has served in the settlement process itself. Allow me to answer another question about the Law on State Defence. This alone represents the State and its authorities on the basis of guidance provided. Its function is to represent the Republic of Slovenia and other entities designated by law. The opinion of the defence as a representative of the State and its representation authorities is not binding. I have to say that I have only followed the government's commitment to make ministers where it makes sense to go to a settlement. And on the basis of the documentation, we found that it was the works that were actually done by the Defacto. These were interventions to the public benefit. By the way, at that time it was winter, the situation was after this severe natural disaster and it is known that PUK was present in addition to some others who were actually performing intervention work there. And at the time, there was no issue of not paying them. Then there was the professional breakup, the conflict, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u98	Time has run out, and so has the technique. Dr. Gantar, supplemental. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I regret that we will not actually be able to do this discussion with Minister Sponik, because the answer is very, very much, I would say, unfolding and using very, very vague concepts. I was talking about the problem of beach rehabilitation and river rehabilitation, not the intervention parts. You were talking about the beach law, especially the beaches of a larger scale. This law, according to my best behavior, came into existence or was adopted in early 2001. But we're talking about the works from 2000. So it can't go to work here, it can't be for the works that were defined in this law. Secondly, very interestingly, the PUK refers to the 1970 Decree, you have now mentioned the Regulation on the manner in which the compulsory Republic economic - public service in the field of water economy is carried out [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia No. 4, 20.1.2000]] which is the right basis for any public service in this area. And in this area, of course, there's no talking about what you're saying. This Decision does not refer to any intervention works, it refers to the performance of the public service. And Mr. Secretary, to me, not just me, I know you'll have to explain to the public why it's going to happen. What was the object of the dispute, in fact? The rehabilitation of the beach of the Congestion and the area of the River Area or in fact the public economic service? What we now have on the basis of documents is actually that the PUK wanted to continue the rehabilitation without a project, without a confirmed project after, of course, completely legitimately doing what it had to do within the framework of the intervention and also the public water management service. And that's the problem you have to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u101	This will certainly be answered in detail. I think you've got something wrong. This law, which was adopted immediately, I believe that the last days of 2000, was the whole law that talked about intervention measures. Let's go brother him from article to article, and that's absolutely, it's like nailed. Another time. It's completely wrong to interpret. I am firmly convinced that if, for example, in January or February, the PUK, without obtaining a decision from the competent inspector or to obtain a decision from the competent ministry, would cease to carry out emergency intervention works, and only this would have been carried out, and that disaster would have occurred! Remember what happened in those first days of January 2000, when there was almost a disaster again, and SOUND was there, so to speak, all the days and nights, along with firefighters, travelers and others. If he had left the scene at that time and there had been a disaster, he could have been prosecuted. You're saying I'm going to have to explain a lot. For me, the question is, in principle, the following, and this will also be answered by a review of why a judicial settlement was needed, why someone had to go to court. Obviously it happened that someone who did the work, and this quality, not bad, I am sure - not least it will be very interesting what the revision will find - the next one that was chosen was the Soča VGP, which then died on meals and went bankrupt. But this company did its job well? And these were also interventional. All of this will go from procedure to procedure, from situation to situation. Finally, we will find that it is the key responsibility of the then competent team, why they did not pay the urgent intervention works that were actually done, and they forced someone to claim that they had their right - not least, this is the legal state - to sue in court. That's a key question. Why was this book not signed at the time? Why didn't the person responsible pay for those parts? This will also be answered by an audit, which I think will also further help to clear up all matters. I am firmly convinced that the Government was right when it went to the settlement procedure in this case, that it acted lawfully, that it paid, in a substantive sense, works that were actually done, which were interventional and for the public benefit. And in this place, I will also say what I have been told several times these days, this debate is very insulting to the locals of Log. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar, I assume you have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u103	Mr President, I have a procedural proposal. I would like the National Assembly to hold a debate on the Minister's reply, pursuant to Article 240(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I'd like to define that. First of all, it's not good, Mr. Secretary, that you bring the country women and the country's Logs under Mangart and the others who are affected into this conflict. It's a work dispute, about who did something, who paid and who should have done something, didn't do it, and so on. That's why, Mr. Minister, I would suggest you don't do this. It is a matter of transparency of public finances. Once again, I would like to remind you that you are talking about intervention works, that this regulation does not clearly speak of such works on the basis of which only in 2002 can work. Next, Minister, the audit, I must say that I expect. I have already received, I have already come to know some of the revisions that you have carried out and I recommend only one, Mr Minister, and this is to ask you to write at least the legal basis on which you will carry out the audit, because you did not write this in the previous revision. Of course, I also wonder if you are so sure if you want a review of what you will achieve with it. In particular, have you proved that you are right or, in fact, doubt that everything was as it should have been? But I certainly don't think this story is going to be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I ask you very much not to argue with the ministers on procedural proposals, because they do not have the right to answer that. It is necessary to put forward a proposal and then this proposal, which we will vote on tomorrow in the context of the vote, will eventually be discussed at one of the next meetings if it is, of course, voted on. Thank you for understanding. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. I invite Mr Viktor Jelinčič Trimenite to also raise a question to the Minister for Environment and Space. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I ask you, what do you have against Koroška and against Korošci? In fact, the third development axis is expected to begin to develop or the entire zone is expected to begin to develop and renew in 2008, as Prime Minister Janša said. You recently stated that this will not happen before 2012, I don't know what it's like to confirm the location for a fast road. Fast road to Slovenj Gradz is urgently needed. Koroška retreats, Koroška disappears and Koroška falls into the arms of neighbouring Haider. Does that appeal to you, I hope not, but does it somehow give us the impression that in all the areas of your ministry he is somehow limping? If we look at these payments to the company PUH, which you have prepared on the basis of some "plonk brick", Mr. Minister would also give you some "plunk centlion" because it was cleaning up, say, a sidewalk around the house, and these are also interventional public works, because it was on the sidewalk of a leaf, it could slip up and break a leg, I will send an account to the Ministry of Environment and Space and I hope that you will pay me for it. Instead of paying "Mr. PUK", we would rather prepare this money and spend it to prepare a site plan for a fast road from the Arje village, via Velenje, to Koroška, to Slovenia Gradac and other Koroški places. On the other hand, it is interesting that you also went to validation or building permits for the construction of windmills on the Volova rib, which is an absolutely controversial location. The process is controversial and the way to get it all together is controversial. What's interesting is that here, if we sum up the correlation between the Soča, we get to about the same people. Diving, Puh, Podobnik, or in windmills: Dive, Elektro Primorska, Podobnik. I think that matters will have to turn to the Commission to prevent corruption, which is already working in this area, and I think that this will need to be reviewed in more detail. After all, we cannot land in such a way that some can simply work with state money as they want and as they know and know. This is said to be a question of a number of matters. Another small question would have to do with this: Is the director of the PUH company a member of the Slovenian People's Party?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you very much. On the question of the honourable Member of the Victory of Jelinčič. Dr. Aleš Horvat is not a member of the Slovenian People's Party. But you'd be proud if you were. According to my information, he was never a member, but he is a recognised criminal expert, a lecturer, and also a recognised expert, who revises European crime projects. And I'd be happy and proud to have him in my client. I must first respond to a topic that is related to the so-called "plonk leaf", as you mention. You will believe that when the settlement procedure is led by a court concerned with legality, it was a judicial settlement, you will understand that it is then necessary to base claims in the proceeding on documents such as and necessary for the accounting of intervention works. I'm pretty sure it was some kind of intervention. I also have before me a report on the first rehabilitation in the National Assembly, where these intervention works are praised. For that time when the company was there. And we know what information is needed: a building book, a construction log, price analysis, and a project of intervention works carried out in the Loga area under Mangrt. All of this was present, and that was on the table! And if someone from the previous team prepared something like a reminder and was so correct that they put it in a common folder, it's only right for the process itself. But everything else can also be a matter of discrimination. On your question about Koroška and the third development axis - those who know me know that I have nothing against Koroška, on the contrary, that as Minister of Environment and Space I will do everything possible to put the road link between Koroška and the highway Ljubljana-Cele as soon as possible. I haven't made any statements about the deadlines you're talking about. You couldn't hear that from my mouth, because I know exactly what I'm saying. However, I can tell you that I expect the National Assembly to adopt the Spatial Planning Act in a short time, perhaps already this month, which means that the deadline I have always talked about, i.e. next spring - summer, to adopt a state-level location plan for the first section, i.e. between Koroška and the Ljubljana-Celje motorway, is feasible if this amendment of the law is adopted. In the midst of this is a very important decision on a variant solution, and here I expect and I think we will find an agreement with local communities, that they will too - I know that there will be more views, it is known, in Velenj, that some draw more west, others more easterly - that we will find the right solution and that you will also help us preparers to put this road into space as soon as possible. Then there's another question that's related to the procedures for obtaining a building permit for the Volova rib wind power plant, the procedure was very long, and I inherited it from the previous team. A very important issue and stage in this process was the acquisition of environmental consensus by the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. This process is well known, we have spoken about it publicly, and in the end, based on a number of expert opinions, also experience from abroad, the Environment Agency, in my opinion, has made the right decision and given an environmental consensus, thus opening up the space for our office, that in a very long process it has then accepted the building permit for the construction of 29 wind turbines, in the original proposal, if I am not mistaken, there were 43 of them, I think there were some over 40 of them. So, I am sure that the procedures in this case, which have been long-term, have received numerous estimates that they have been carried properly and that they will also be tested in all the institutions which are intended to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič, I find that he wishes to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Well, Minister, the fact is that the work that has now been paid or will be paid has not been required. And the second fact is that there is no contract for the execution of works. And I think that in every state of law, for something to be paid, a contract must be submitted if there is no contract to be paid for and if the works are not commissioned, no payment shall be made. Something like this can only happen in one such private variants or semi-private variants. For this reason, we intend to initiate certain matters in the Slovenian National Party, because we do not believe in this kind of business by the State. After all, it is a huge amount of money that could be spent anywhere else, and above all, as I have already said, on the road towards Koroška, which I think you are deliberately neglecting. I don't know why, but I have to say that even when you say there were no statements, ask Koroška about it. There's a whole rabbi in Koroshka because of this. And I think and I hope you will find this to be a good thing in the next election. The question is also, who signed that building log that you refer to. We should sign it daily, and I don't know who signed that diary by the State. As I'm aware, inappropriate people have signed it at all. And about the windmills. Don't tell me what you've done. You have done what you should not do, and therefore I am sure that it is corruption, and that is why the Kosovo Commission is working on these matters, because if the Digger unlawfully excludes that area from Nature 2000, you have only confirmed what the then Minister Kopac has done. I think it's gonna turn out to be the wrong thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Again, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Thank you for the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u112	And once again, please, Mr Bajc and everyone else, please don't interfere with the words of the one who has the word. Thank you. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I agree with that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u113	I reject the allegations of corruption. All of it. All procedures may be open. My ministerial conscience is completely clear. All the topics Mr Jelinčič has discussed, and this will also be demonstrated by the procedures on any body to be launched and are available with all documents. I'd like to make one more point. Obviously, it is not clear to my colleague Jelinčič that intervention works are done without contracts. Of course, you will be told by all those who deal with this activity for years and years. Of course, there's something else I'd like to explain. It often sounds like they were jobs that weren't ordered. There is a re-absolute misunderstanding of the procedure itself. For, of course, the Government did not have to order these works because it did not order them, but performed them, in this case the company which had a mandate here on the basis of the decree, and not on the basis of orders of the Government. That's clear, that's the procedure. You can go very thoroughly into all marriages and submarital acts, and you will find that out. I am also glad that today, in one of the Slovenian newspapers, the diary, not the one that initiated many articles on this subject, received a very good quality, I would say a substantive explanation of all these procedures, about the so-called voluntary work, which was not, about the fact that the work continued without the government's order, which is a completely wrong interpretation, or that it should only be withdrawn. As I said before, if it were to withdraw, it would indeed work contrary to the legislation in force. However, I have already responded to other findings in the first part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Jelinčič probably has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. In view of what I have heard here and given the fact that the Law on Public Finance does not appear to be known to the Minister and that, without contracts, it is only in the Western Balkans but not in Europe, I propose that, in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the National Assembly decide to hold a debate on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Koren has the floor to ask the question of two ministers, the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister for Transport. I assume you'll both be answering, which means that the time available will have to be shared. Please, Mr. Koren, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to the ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I think my question will clear up a little bit further. Last week, we had a really big shock for the people of the Silesian and Koro region. At the meeting of the Management Committee of the Regional Economic Chamber in Velenj on Monday 26 February, officials of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport provided information to move the development axis of the rapid road to the second decade. We have always hoped, both in Koroška and in the Valley, that Prime Minister Janez Janša was serious when he promised to start building a fast road towards Velenje for the end of 2008. However, representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport in Velenj said that, due to the long-term procedures for placing the route into space and assessing the environmental impacts required by the legislation and the Alpine Convention, the national location plan could not be prepared before 2010, and construction would start in 2012, four years later as promised. I am aware that these procedures are difficult and long-lasting. But I also know that if they are of course willing, they can be carried out more quickly. I do not think it is necessary to repeat that the existing road network from Koroška to joining the motorway in Arja village is causing poor flow and hindering development, particularly the economic development of Koroška and Šalejska Valley. On the Velenje-Arje road, you were on average 20,000 vehicles a day. In order to enhance this data, only one cargo vehicle shall be taken from Gorenje at an interval of less than two minutes. Dear Minister, I ask you, "Did you know about the statements made by the representatives of the ministries, or did they have already demented them?" Then I wonder, "Is the third axis really moving away from government promises?" And last but not least, what are you going to do to speed up the preparation of the necessary documentation for the construction of this fast road?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The Minister of Mag will be the first to answer. Christmas. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As is known, the section of the fast road Dravograd - Arja Vas has become an integral part of the national highway construction programme in the Republic of Slovenia only with the Resolution on National Road Construction Programmes, which was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 27.2.2004. As soon as the Resolution on the National Programme was adopted, the Ministry of Transport began to prepare the project documentation and other professional backgrounds necessary for the initiative, for the preparation of the national site plan, and for the initiation of the placement procedure in the premises led by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Since 12.10.2004, she has also forwarded the initiative to the ILO. In accordance with the Space Regulation Act, a procedure has also been initiated to place this section of the rapid road into the area with the final objective of obtaining as soon as possible the Local Plan Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic. With regard to the preparation of the national location plan and the initiation of the process of placing this section of the rapid road into the premises of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Environment and Space has proposed that the professional basis for the national location plan, up to the choice of variant, be developed as part of the regional spatial development designs for the region of Koroška and Savinj. This ILO initiative was agreed by all regional spatial development programming councils and all municipalities in the area. The Ministry of Transport shall, through its contracting authorities, in this case Dars, be operationally involved in the implementation of the investment project only after the adoption of the Regulation on the State Location Plan, even though it is also actively involved in the process of preparing this State Location Plan, of course in accordance with the statutory procedure. Our activities prior to the construction of the department include the so-called preliminary preparatory work that is urgently needed before the construction itself. It is, however, the creation of a cadastral new land and real estate purchase measure, the production of project documentation for implementation, the acquisition of all necessary consents and permits for construction, the execution of public contracts and the like. According to our experience gained so far in the implementation of the motorway programme, these activities take place between 9 and 18 months, depending on the length and smoothness of the section. More information about the deadlines will also be given by Minister Podobnik about the strategy and implementation of DLN. However, I agree with the need to shorten the procedures for the preparation of the national site plan, but I would like to point out that any adoption of the new Space Law at the beginning of its application will lead to difficulties, as all procedures need to be replayed through practical measures and documents prescribed by law and at these stages may present problems until the originators of the law's location documentation are gradually adopted and played with it, as is the case with state and municipal procedures. However, I can assure you that the Ministry of Transport will do everything in its power to complete these procedures for DLN as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik, you have a little less time left, but still.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Koren says they were shocked by the matter. I would like to say that the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space and Transport, when they took part in one of the round tables and when they spoke about the dates when this part of the road would be placed in the space, they had in mind the applicable Law on Spatial Planning, and this law was indeed written so that if they went entirely according to its provisions and had a somewhat restrictive view, if they had problems with alternative solutions, so that there was no agreement at the local level, then those deadlines could be even real, but, as we say, we have just before the adoption of the new Law on Spatial Planning and will fortunately also be at the stage in which the preparation of the national site plan itself reduced. Reduced to this extent that if we cooperate well with local communities, there will not be too much dissonance on the issue of alternative solutions, so that next summer the government will be able to adopt a state-owned location plan, at least for part of the section of modern road links in this area. It must be said, however, that the current Government was the one that brought this project to Slovenian development plans in real terms and, last but not least, it is one of the key projects of these major national programmes for which I hope we will also receive European cohesion funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Koren wishes to complete the reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you for those answers. I am pleased or must say I am very pleased that this Government has taken this decision to approach the rapid realization of this fast road. Only as a reinforcement that we experienced the inhabitants of this area are only a few newspapers that came out last Thursday entitled "The Road will not yet be", in the second "The Moved Construction of the Fast Road", in the third "The Third Axis is moving away from government promises" and so on. So this shift last week in Velenj was actually a shock among our people. As far as deadlines are concerned, I agree that they are difficult and long-term procedures, but we know that if we have marriage arms 15, 30, 60, 90 days, that these are deadlines, that there is nothing wrong if the things prescribed within such a period are done in half a short time or even less, of course if there are enough people, energy and that the matter can be monitored. In addition, I would like to know whether the President of the Government, Mr Janša, is aware of these deviations from his promises, because I am sure that he will not agree with these deviations from the promised programme himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. On the additional question of Mr Koren [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u125	Minister Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u126	Now in reverse order?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u127	That's it. Minister Podobnik has the floor. There's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u128	Now I'll spend more.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u129	I have to say this for a magnetogram. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. At the last meeting of the Government, was it the last one, I think, on the agenda was one of those related to spatial placement in space, of course highway or road infrastructure facilities, that the President of the Government asked only one question: "How long will the new Law on Spatial Planning shorten the procedures for the preparation of the State's site plan?" And you know this very well, tomorrow or tomorrow, this debate will also end, I hope, with good amendments, not to the detriment of content, but where the state authorities can maximize their activity, we have achieved that the deadline will be significantly shorter. That was all I could say as Minister of Environment and Space to the President of the Government. And then there's another side, which I hear is that good things are moving - because the social acceptability of each location is very important, and I'm sure with the help of MEPs, economies, newly elected municipal teams with the municipal councils will also find an acceptable option so that they won't lose any additional month. And if all of this comes together, then the deadline for the adoption of the national location plan next year will be realistic. But then, when he could get a building permit and plant a shovel, he used to talk about the mag. Janez Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. And the Minister of Transport, please, if you'd like a word, but it's not necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u132	I would only add that, as soon as the national location plan is adopted, we will immediately launch public land purchase bids, design procedures. When we have this prepared, then this project must also be placed in the annual development and reconstruction plan. I am sure or I hope that this will happen in 2009, we will prepare this for 2008 and we will start construction in 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Minister of Finance, who is absent, mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, a brief observation of just being made. Mr Janez Janša promised that in 2008 the construction of the fast road would be an Austrian motorway, and today it was said that it would not be in 2008 but after 2008. So, Mr Koren, I, too, am from those parts, and obviously we, Members, remain the problem of putting pressure on the Government to do so in 2008. I explain this because my question is related to today's absent Minister of Finance. In some ways, it is also related to whether the congregations will be provided with sufficient resources to solve some of these problems, such as the quick road itself. My question is: Will the Minister ensure that the municipalities receive sufficient, I emphasise, their own revenues? In contrast to grants, own incomes depend on economic growth, rather than on political or any other decision-making, depending on the number of employees. It is the fact that own revenues grow "ad valorem" according to the value of economic activity in individual places, not "ad persons", according to which option is in power or which mayor of each municipality belongs to any option. The basic question to which I wish to receive the answer of the Minister of Finance is: How will he prevent municipalities from getting too little money in accordance with the constitutional principle of ensuring that municipalities are provided with their own revenues? Let me prove it with the data. In 2008, income growth at the level of total consolidated public finances will be around 12% of the points. For several reasons, employment is expected to increase, 5.6% of GDP growth is expected and 2% of inflation is expected. This, of course, amounts to an additional 12% or an additional 217 million euros. Of these EUR 217 million, only an additional EUR 37 million is available for the municipalities, according to the decisions of the Minister of Finance and Minister Žagar. This was adopted here in this National Assembly. I ask the Minister: Where did the difference of 64 million euros go? This money will obviously go to the armory, it will obviously go to the wrong projects, even some of them here today you have been talking about fellow Members, various matters and so on. If the Minister of Finance wants to provide a constitutional principle for the provision of his own revenue, an additional EUR 64 million should be provided to the municipalities. I want the Minister of Finance to respond to this, first in writing and then orally. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Potrč, Minister of Justice Dr Lovr Šturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u136	Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In recent days, we have witnessed the discovery of the disputed remittance of the Minister of the Environment and the premises of the company for the editing of junkyards in connection with the parts of the rehabilitation of the beach in Logo under Mangart. We've talked about this a lot. Payments were made despite the State’s defence attorney’s warning that it would be more appropriate to complete the judicial procedure on a regular basis. The decision of the Minister responsible, contrary to the opinion of the Advocate General, was possible because the current Government introduced in February 2006 amendments and additions to the Law on State Defence, which significantly reduce the autonomy and expertise of the State defence, as it must only work within the powers of the Ombudsman. This is one such concrete example on the basis of the amendment of the law. This problem was highlighted by the Advocate General in particular in relation to denationalisation issues on my annual report. He stressed that the representative of the public interest in matters of denationalisation since March 2005 was no longer a state-level lawyer, but a senior judge in retirement, subordinated and solely responsible to the Minister of Justice, Dr Šturm, and that, in addition, the State's attorney, in so far as he formally represents the state in the denationalisation proceedings, is entirely subordinate to the will of the Ministry, since he can only file lawsuits and other legal remedies when he receives the express order of the Minister. Therefore, the profession also had to begin to withdraw from politics in this area. Public interest, regardless of professional opinion, is legally in the hands of ministers, this is a ruling policy. This certainly does not contribute to the consolidation of the rule of law. This also allows for the interests of the ruling policy. I therefore ask Mr Sturm, Minister of Justice: Have the amendments to the Law on State Defence adopted a year ago shown good results in practice, or do they constitute an overly broad possibility of enforcing the political decisions and discretionary powers of ministers and the Government regarding the availability of budgetary resources?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. May I have the floor to the Minister, Dr. Sturm, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, too, for the question raised by the Member of Parliament, honourable Member Mirano Potrč. According to the system of the Law on State Defence, the State Defence Office is the representative of the Republic of Slovenia before the courts and administrative authorities. Such a concept was already known by the former Law on Public Defence and has also been preserved by the now in force Law on State Defence, which was adopted in 1997. The State's defence is therefore an agent and is therefore a lawyer of the Republic of Slovenia and other entities governed by the law before the courts and administrative authorities. In this regard, two other provisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act are important. This law provides in Article 7 that the Government shall represent the Republic of Slovenia as a legal person unless, in respect of individual matters by law, it is otherwise provided and that the Government manages property and other property of the Republic of Slovenia, unless otherwise provided for in the specific law. On the basis of the general legal mandate referred to in Article 7 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government is therefore the representative of the Republic of Slovenia. The government, of course, also manages property and other property owned by the Republic of Slovenia. However, according to the above-mentioned Law on State Defence, the State's lawyer is, or according to the domestic law, a lawyer to the courts and to the administrative authorities. Thus, in these proceedings, state defenders carry out individual procedural actions. The law, which has been amended and which you point out, honourable Member, in this case contained a different solution for the representation of the State before the administrative authorities, stated that the Ombudsman must obtain a special mandate for them, which, of course, also contains all the necessary guidelines and, on the contrary, it contained a general legal mandate for the proceedings before the courts. The new law has resolved this in a uniform manner and has further defined the way in which the State’s defence of the entities referred to in the first paragraph of the same Article is represented before the administrative authorities and before the courts, in accordance with the guidelines. The amendment of the Law on State Defence in 2006 has thus merely specified and defined the internal situation between the party, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its representative, and lawyers - state lawyers. The amendment of the law is justified as the legislator has thus clearly defined how he represents the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia before the courts and before the administrative authorities. The relationship between the Republic of Slovenia and the State defence, i.e. the relationship between the representative and the representative, is now transparent and clearly defined after the amendment of the amendment, and responsibility is clearly established. This is how we see this as progress with previous regulation. Let me also say that in the process of denationalisation, the Government has been monitoring declarations of will all the time since the adoption of the law. Such declarations of will have been accepted by the Governments since 1992 very large, countless and exactly the same declarations of acceptance by the Government. In this case, nothing has changed here. Only these declarations of will, under the previous law, committed the defence attorneys only to the administrative authorities, not to the courts. And this duality has also abolished the proposed amendment of the law. Let me also say that the Supreme Court and the President of the Supreme Court have repeatedly warned the Minister of Justice and also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the large number of disputes which the State has with the courts and directly called for the greatest possible settlement. And the government is headed this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The conclusion of the settlement, when it comes to substantive justification, is certainly beneficial. Just as different forms of mediation are useful in resolving disputes, there is no difference in this part as to whether the defence would have a directing power alone or should be given by the Government. To say that the government or the competent minister is always and only right, and the profession is nothing, but I do not accept. The law states that the State’s defence is an independent state body. One would assume from this role that his expert opinion is also against the political responsibility and interest of the current Government and the Ministry, a certain weight. I must say that we have been warned in the last report that even in the Government, if this is true, it has been realized that, in the event that there is a gap between the professional views of the State defender and the political views and interests of the Minister, it would be prudent to give this issue to the Government at least, that the Government is the one who assesses this diversity of views and then continues to give guidance. If that is true, then it only shows, Mr Minister, that things are not as uniform as you show them only for the sake of the mandate that the Minister must have, and that certain changes would be necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Minister Storm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you also for this additional, I will say, more of a comment than a question, but let me answer that too. Dear Member, you come from a simplified representation of relations, as if the lawyers are only professional, but the ministries are just politics, which of course is not true. Each ministry has a very good number of experts, has a very large number of expert groups within the Ministry and engages, if necessary, external colleagues who are experts. Let me say that in matters of denationalisation, the Ministry of Justice often engages the well-known Professor of Law, Dr Rodet, and takes into account the results of the experts, which is why I reject any suggestion that any decision taken within the Ministry is political and that the decision taken within the framework of the defence is the only one and the right one. I can't accept that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Montenegro will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u144	Nice greetings to all present. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Slovenian pharmacies are obviously dug up in surpluses of money with which they do not know what to do. How else to justify the use of this money to rehabilitate landfills in water protection areas, which is currently being decided by the Ljubljana City Council. We have learned from the media in the last week that only the public office of Lekarna Ljubljana is expected to conclude the 2005 business year with good 612 million tolars or 2 million 550 thousand euros of profits. However, the balance sheet at 31.12.2005 shows that the total surplus of revenue over expenditure, i.e. transfer from previous years, amounted to over € 23.7 million. Clearly, drugs are too expensive. Why are they too expensive? Probably because pharmacies, which are certainly monopolies under our operating conditions, set their own margins or prices. The Chamber of Pharmacy has the power to determine how the prices of medicines and aids are to be established, namely those not subject to the contract with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance. At the same time, a few weeks ago, we heard that the pharmacy will not provide certain data regarding the implementation of the compensatory schemes because the commission for such work is too low in their view. In the event of a public announcement by one of the founders that he would collect more than EUR 20 million to the pharmacy, there was no opposition from the pharmacy chamber. At least not in the media. Interesting. That the matter is even more absurd, most pharmacies in our country are in public or municipal property. Public institutions may only use surplus revenue over expenditure under the applicable law on institutions for the purpose of carrying out and developing activities, unless otherwise specified by the act establishing it. I believe that a change is needed in the work of health care in connection with the implementation of the pharmacy activity in relation to, or in the work on, spending over expenditure. The aim of the market activity of pharmacy establishments must not be to gain profits, but to ensure adequate supply of medicines available to everyone and any surpluses should be directed back to the same activity. For this reason, I ask you, Mr Minister, how cumulative are the surpluses of all public pharmacies in the Republic of Slovenia from previous years? What solutions do you intend to propose or adopt in relation to the operation of pharmacies and the possible unintended use of surpluses of expenditure that we have heard in these days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u145	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Magic. He's a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u146	Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, fellow Ministers! Thank you very much for this question. I must say that the field of healthcare, as far as pharmacy is concerned, is one of the rather unregulated areas which we have inherited from the Ministry of Health in this mandate. The Pharmacy Act was 15 years old on 1 March and the accounting model for the payment of pharmacy services has been over 25 years old. In short, it is a long-term situation that is reflected in these problems that you have mentioned here today and which must also be agreed with in a number of points. In previous mandates, I must say, there have been virtually no significant changes in the field of pharmacy activity. Open issues, which are very common, are already mentioned in outdated legislation, an outdated model of funding, and above all the monopoly of 24 public institutions. At this point, we have been trying to amend the law or prepare the Law on Private Health for pharmaceutical activity in recent times, according to some of your claims. However, there is a slightly lower financial situation of 79 private pharmacies in Slovenia, quite in rural areas. Then the problem is the establishment of supermarkets by means of pharmacies. The Ministry of Health, in fact, must say that any intention to use these surpluses, which you are now asking, in pharmacies, public institutions have not even been informed. This is about the competences of the municipalities. However, it is true that a Member’s finding that a possible surplus of a public institution is to be used in accordance with the Institutes Act only for the purpose of carrying out and developing an activity, unless otherwise specified by the act establishing it. In the opinion of our ministry and my opinion, any change in the creation act towards a different use of the surplus would be contrary to the financing of the healthcare and health insurance system, in which funds are created by contributions from insurers and employers, and this funding is separate from budgetary resources. To your question, I directly answer that according to the final accounts data, 24 pharmacies in public health establishments were cumulatively over 19 billion tolars of surpluses, I am also speaking in tolars, because the money was then also accounted for, and they came from the market activities of pharmacies, such as the free sale of medicines, medical devices, veterinary medicinal products, cosmetics and so on. However, public health activities have been shown to be cumulative on this day of this total of 8.2 billion tolar surpluses. That's quite a sum. The Ministry of Health has already prepared a number of measures in our mandate to regulate the situation. An analysis of Prof. Marka Granca The pharmacy activity of Slovenia was commissioned in the light of membership in the EU and the free movement of goods and services. The study was submitted to me at the end of 2006 and proposes a new solution on the financing of pharmacy services and progressive privatisation or privacy and the reduction of monopolies. On 11.12.2006, I appointed a special project group to prepare a new accounting model in pharmacies to prepare a proposal by the end of April 2007. On the basis of these grounds, we will also approach the preparation of a new Act on Pharmacy, which is already being prepared, but this data will be important for its final production. However, by adopting the amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, it will also be possible to accede to the Regulation on the pricing of medicinal products for human use, which has already been published in the Official Journal of January this year, but can only be fully amended by a new Health and Health Insurance Act. Here we expect a considerable amount of savings for the health treasury. In view of the perceived irregularities in some pharmacies, administrative controls have also been introduced in these pharmacies on our part, which will also be carried out in the future. Initially, it should only be said that all this implementation of yours actually speaks against what the Chamber of Pharmacy has recently tried to enforce in relation to the introduction of compensatory schemes in the field of legislation governing these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač wants to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much. In particular, thank you for the information you provided. 31.12.2005 You said that in public, I stress, public pharmacies - many times in this assembly we are talking about public and private - 19 billion previous tolls of surpluses. 19 billion money that stands there and doesn't know what's gonna happen to it. On the other hand, there are areas in the entire health sector that need this money bloodyly. Today, on the website of the Ljubljana Municipality, I have printed a proposal that will put about €6 billion over €22 million into a fund from which to simplify waste degradation will be financed. That's shocking. That's shocking! And this, I think, is not just Slovenia, but no other country should allow it. I believe that it is essential that the monopoly of public institutions and the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia be limited and that certain measures must be taken very quickly in this regard, because otherwise I fear that all 19 billion tolars of those consumed will not be intended. Although the law does say that this money must be used for the purposes for which it was created, there is obviously no need there, but if there was no need for five years to use the funds from this title. So something in this monopoly is seriously wrong. And the measures you've announced will be welcome, but I'm afraid they'll be too late and I'm going to have to move faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much for this additional question. That basically just confirms what I've already presented in response to the first part of the question. In fact, I agree with you that there is a monopoly on pharmacies at the level of public institutions and that this monopoly needs to be changed. However, current legislation prevents any other intervention in the event itself, in particular as regards this cumulative surplus that pharmacies have. In fact, 19 billion of the surpluses in pharmacy accounts, as I said, are 8 billion by these pharmacy services in relation to public health activities alone. I must say that some, particularly private pharmacies, are in a significantly worse position than public pharmacies, which are partly part of the public service and part of private activities. And it's actually a major part of their so-called profits or cumulative surplus lately. I think that this is an additional reason to adopt, as soon as possible, appropriate legislation to regulate the application of private pharmacies, which will also allow for the improvement of the pharmacy network and at the same time make it impossible to do some of the voluntary moves currently taking place in the Chamber of Pharmacy, which even restrict or partially prevent the implementation of the legislation adopted in this House, legislation which has been adopted with the practical support of 100% of this House. So much for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Germič will also ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In Slovenia, about 10,000 people suffer from cancer each year and 5,000 die as a result of cancer. Therefore, with great concern, I am monitoring events at the oncology institute and correspondence between the Ministry of Health and Management of the Oncology Institute, how to deal with accumulated problems, and I am even more concerned about the reports of the Association of Oncological Patients of Slovenia, which pointed out the worrying data on cancer and oncological patient health. As a result, it is very concerned that oncological activity in Slovenia is lagging behind developed European countries and that the survival of cancer patients in some species is up to 20% lower than survival in central Europe. This brings us closer to the average survival of cancer patients in countries such as: Romania, Bulgaria, Balkan countries, Poland, Ukraine. We can talk about the poor organisation of health care at all levels. From this point of view, the interesting fact presented at the meeting of the Health Committee by the representative of the Ministry of Health is that, during the Presidency of the European Union, Slovenia will address as one of the priorities the real problem of cancer, which is very well regulated for us. Sadly, though, reality is the opposite. Both the Oncology Institute and the central cancer treatment facility, as well as the learning base, do not have the basic conditions for normal functioning. Thus, we are witnessing correspondence between the Ministry of Health and the Oncology Institute, which warns and conducts areas by post, such as the open issues of failure to complete construction works, which already show weaknesses in the new building, the tubes still have Legional, the operating tables are alone. Patients and medical personnel are still living in impossible conditions of the old building, and for the delay of relocation, you provide a leasing call for general and medical equipment, whose complainants require a review of the procedure, reflecting the intransparency of the Ministry of Health procedures and the violation of the use of public funds. This raises a question, Mr Minister: Why do you not exercise the right to make a decision on the tenderer and to sign a contract when it comes to direct threats to human life and health? Why, then, is such a diametricity; on the one hand, superlatives; on the other hand, the functioning of the Oncology Institute in the stable, poor conditions and results - dissatisfaction, and most tragicly, the death of patients on the other hand. Therefore, I ask you: How is healthcare provided for cancer patients in Slovenia? How do you protect the interests of these patients? And: When will a cancer control strategy be developed in Slovenia, as the burden of cancer is forecast to increase dramatically?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you so much for asking. I must say that what you have just listed here, in fact some of these data are true, but Slovenia is not lagging behind in global cancer. There are some areas where, two years or three years ago, some signs of increased morbidity and mortality have been detected, but on average, they do not hold this data back for 20% of data from the European Union. But there are some areas, and it is for these areas that we are at this time - we are just preparing an opportunistic transplant for early detection of breast cancer by mammography. This means that in Slovenia every woman between the ages of 50 and 69 will have the right to preventative mammography every two years. At present, this right exists, but I must say that this is not an obligation, but it is also an option and preparations are under way for the introduction of a systematic organisation of breast cancer assessment by inviting all women during this age period, as only so organised transplantation after the experiences of countries, which are successfully introduced, gives the expected results. Of course, there is a third area that is actually important and also requires an answer to your question, but it is an effective transplant of colon cancer, and also in this area, activities in Slovenia have started, which have been very neglected in the past and have not been practically absent, so the Health Council recently approved an early detection programme for colon cancer. So, the first step towards introducing systematic transplantation of this cancer in the whole of Slovenia in the future. Nevertheless, I should also answer that question about the correspondence between us and the Oncology Institute. Indeed, this correspondence exists, but there are also many conversations, interviews and also opportunities that could lead to future improvements in situations that were in no way agreed upon and not realized in the past. We will arrange this in this year or summer so that, of course, there will be such a difficult relocation and the use of new operating tables. As far as the use of 11a is concerned. Article, you know as well as I do what this 11a is. Article means and that I can only use it when the matter is already on the State Audit Commission. I must say that only yesterday did the final complaint come from the tenderers to the State Audit Commission and, of course, if necessary, we will be this 11a. the article in this case has also been applied. I must say that as far as moving from an old stable, which everyone likes to use as a model of poor health in our country, the situation is impossible because of long-standing mistakes in the management of this part of health care, and we will have them in this year, as I said, and we will also arrange the possibility of agreeing on, at least in part, a move faster, even though it will not be possible to provide these latest and most modern equipment with equipment that already exists. That's exactly what we're talking about with the Oncology Institute. This is not a problem by post, but it is actually a deal with the Oncology Institute and we want this service to be implemented as soon as possible. Nevertheless, we have done many things during this time. Access to biological medicinal products has increased significantly. Thus, over the past three years, we have spent as much as 1.6 billion tolars per year on innovative cancer medicines, which is about three times more than in recent years. The availability of radio therapy has also improved significantly since we have increased the programmes for cancer patients at the Cancer Institute by 600 patients and, of course, have prevented or enabled all Slovenian patients to be treated in Slovenian hospitals, which has previously occurred in hospitals outside Slovenia or in surrounding areas. As far as the national cancer control programme in Slovenia is concerned, all I can tell you is that we have some basic objectives, which can be achieved mainly by improving and improving the efficiency of the primary and secondary levels, and in particular by improving the linkage of the profession and thus reducing the waiting period. For these actions or for this national programme, expert commissions are appointed to complete work on the national programme by the end of June of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Germič wishes to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. In this mandate you have promised much, of course, there is little on the side of this struggle. This is how you promised that we would have a national health care programme in due course. That's not what today is. You talked about what you were gonna do today. Of these promises we can only recall one thing, that is that the Oncology Institute is expected to move from the old building A to the new building by the end of last year. Today we are facing a completely different situation, with irregular conditions, and I reiterate that there has been a lot of talk about operating tables. The operating tables are now set at the Oncology Institute, unfortunately there is no resettlement, no use of these operating tables. It also raises the question of who will take responsibility for the equipment that was purchased in 2004 and cannot be used today, that the warranty deadlines have already expired and that this may result in certain financial consequences. So once again, I ask you a clear question: What is your strategy? You are in the second half of your mandate, and it would be very good to hear what your strategy is, that is, your ministry's strategy for cancer patients. And I ask you specifically: Do you intend to establish a system of concessions, that is to say, to solve the problems of oncology, even in these cases, to grant concessions that you so strongly advocate? So that private health care can solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you. Again, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u158	Of course, this second part mentioned a whole lot of things that do not fall within the scope of the basic question. As far as the national programme is concerned, I assure you that the national programme will be in public debate within ten days. We are preparing it, and I hope that after public debate this national programme will also be implemented. Of course, I must say here that the composition of the national programme is indeed a major task of this ministry. Even in the previous mandate, which national programme has not been drawn up and left completely without any programme in 2004 which we have now gladly prepared and will also be presented to the public. As far as the operating tables are concerned, I have already said clearly that these operating tables alone will not solve the problems of oncology, but you and some other representatives of the opposition have said that the operating tables are the ones needed for the work of the Oncology Institute. With regard to the Oncology Institute, both matters should be discussed at all times, first on the operating tables and then on the second part on the equipment. It was connected to one another. As far as the purchase of equipment is concerned, the procedure as it has now been carried out is the fastest possible. To talk about spending more money on getting this equipment because we took a financial lease is also pointless, because if we had enough money for all the programs, but almost half of it is missing for investment, then we would rather get this equipment directly by buying it. Because that's not possible, it was the only way. That there have been complaints is now a matter on the State Audit Commission. In my opening remarks, if there are any problems in this regard, and if I find this to be right and possible, then I will use this famous article, which speaks of intervention when it comes to endangering the life and health of the inhabitants, as soon as possible. However, as for other issues that have arisen here, especially the latter on concessions, I do not, as you well know, force concessions as such. In the case of oncology, this is not at all relevant and has not yet been issued, so that I know, no concession, nor in the future, because this is an area that we will still want to keep in this form in the same public industrial way as before, with this very strong and good Cancer Institute, which requires some of my organisational changes that can actually lead to improvements in the future. But here I am thinking, above all, that mammography could also somehow be centrally managed through the Oncology Institute for the whole of Slovenia as the primary centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Friday to the Minister for Home Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. Pavlich. Dear Mr. Secretary! I will talk about, at least for me, a number of Styrian Members, who are driving along this recently built, completed highway, the issue of safety on this road. Statistics show that despite the high objectives of the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme, the number of road accidents, the easier and more severely injured and the number of deaths on our roads are not decreasing. Transport safety on Slovenian motorways has been heavily affected, especially in the last two years, by trucks with a total mass of more than 6 tonnes, mainly from Eastern Europe. They are also largely followed by Slovenian truck drivers who obviously do not want to lag behind their colleagues from other countries in competition and in violation of road traffic regulations. We can see that the behaviour of truck drivers is often the terror of other road users. Along the Maribor-Ljubljana motorway and further towards Cyprus, there are also many trucks from other EU Member States, most of which point to the fact that they do not meet all the conditions for driving on our roads. Trucks are often placed in columns without an adequate safety distance, or they run ahead of each other and jam faster and slow down all traffic after several kilometres. Especially dangerous are the delays when truck drivers, aware of the size and power of their vehicles, suddenly jump ahead, the consequences are often fatal. The stickers on the rear of the vehicle, which are intended to show the maximum permitted speed of the vehicle, are more suitable for decoration, as truck drivers do not most often take account of the restrictions. It seems, Minister, that you do not often use the highway from Ljubljana to Maribor and vice versa or, sitting comfortably in the back seat of the service car, you pay attention to what is other than the dramatic event on the road. Otherwise, I can't explain why you don't order your colleagues to make appropriate changes to the legislation to prohibit the overtaking of trucks on Slovenian highways or at least on some of the most dangerous sections. Clearly, the situation is similar with your associates who are not aware of this responsibility. Therefore, I ask you to provide me with the following information for 2006 or at least for the last six months. How many truck drivers were punished on the Styrian highway at Maribor-Ljubljana section for mistaking? How many drivers have been punished for driving at a higher speed than the sticker allows? How many trucks were inspected during this period? How many drivers have been punished for exceeding the permitted driving time? How many trucks were inspected for tyre wear, axle load measured, and how many drivers were punished for these offences? Mr Minister, the question is something, I hope that I will get most of the answer, and I believe that you are concerned with your responsibilities and responsibilities, which you have accepted, of course, when you have accepted the role of Minister of the Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Mate has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. I will point out the statistics for the road that I assume is the most interesting and only for the section of A1 Ljubljana - Maribor road, where you and I often drive, you probably often travel to Maribor, as I have this option, but I am on this road at least two - up to three times a month. I know as well what traffic on this road looks like and I have some similar concerns as you have about some issues. On the statistics themselves, I will give you data for 2006 and for the last 6 months, from September to the end of February 2007. During this time, the following number of truck drivers was punished for irregularities. Improper integration, change in direction of driving, irregular movement by vehicle and incorrect speeding in 2006 145 drivers, in the last 6 months 79. Overrun of speed in 2006 566 drivers, in the last 6 months 239. Exceeding driving time, failure to take into account the appropriateness of rest, different manipulations with records on devices indicating driving time and the like - 150 infringements or penalties in the last 6 months 88. Technical deficiencies 63, in the last months 31. Overrun of axle loads, maximum permissible mass and mass of trailers 158 vehicles in the last 6 months 85 vehicles. There was a joint violation of road traffic regulations at the section of the Ljubljana motorway - Maribor and punished in 2006 1843 drivers, in the last 6 months 859 drivers. Unfortunately, the exact number of vehicles stopped and inspected cannot be given to you in full, so I would not have had or would not have used this data because the system for entering these data is not regulated to provide a central record to give control. Of course, with full responsibility, I can say that several checks have been carried out during this time, such as on-board vehicles or drivers and vehicle deficiencies, to carry out various preventive actions, including international preventive actions, as well as in the framework of the Salzburg Forum, Slovenia also participates in a specific action to prevent the transport of goods vehicles from Eastern Europe. Here we work very closely with the Hungarian authorities, and we also agree on when they carry out an accelerated or stronger inspection of these vehicles on their roads, which we are the days of, so that we can somehow share this burden with ourselves of this transit, which runs both through Hungary and through Slovenia. I must say that there is often cooperation with other services, with inspectorates, who, at the same time with the mistakes discovered by the police, also have their competence to detect deficiencies on vehicles, the incorrect use of petrol, it is said, the fuel oil instead of gasoline or some other things. Very often these drivers are punished for several different offences. If we are talking about driving too fast or driving faster than the signs allow, I must say that more modern vehicles, newer vehicles also have more modern devices that do not allow more speed than is intended for such a vehicle, and in such cases, of course, there is a slightly greater confusion on the highway when these vehicles are overtaken by other vehicles which are slower. Police can control, monitor and punish overcoming where prohibited and, of course, drive below the permitted minimum speed or exceed the permitted maximum speed. If a vehicle is driven within these frameworks, of course, the police cannot carry out the punishment, unless there is some other general danger and that is why a particular vehicle has been punished in this regard. Otherwise, I can tell you that some additional measures are planned this year. Thus, in the process of acquiring a new number of vehicles with certain electronic devices, which will be even more effective on these sections, they control traffic. Also in the past month, we have begun to exercise tighter control on Prekmurska roads [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u163	Time's up, but Mr. Friday wants to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u164	Yeah, I believe it's hard to comment on this data right now, but by the number of trucks that I somehow feel on this road, I think the number of penalties is relatively small, although I can't say that I'm just agreeing to a criminal policy, but I think it's more preventive and prevent it. But the fact is, that's how we feel, and we know that those of us who drive so many times, of course these giants are in too much trouble, and they're taking advantage of this too much. To me, Mr. Minister - because you haven't answered what was actually the basis of my question, except for this data - is there an expert opinion or are you in the ministry thinking about this section or perhaps at any other department about the prohibition of overcoming? That's because it doesn't seem to allow this road of overtaking anymore. So I would need a simple answer: Are these thoughts, or are these analyses being done, or are they being determined at all about the technical capabilities of this? And a second time. Of course, it seems to me that when the police clearly prefer some other obligation, let us just remember, for example, the Law on Municipal Government, when some other authorities are charged with security insurance; that they are actually paying attention to the Schengen border and some other tasks. It seems to me that they pass automatically or slowly from those areas where it was sometimes much more represented, and these are also checks on highways. It seems to me that occasional actions, occasional controls, these activities that you have talked about do not produce results, because truckers also occasionally appear, do not necessarily encounter these occasional actions. As a result, I think we should increase the constant control and presence of police on highways. I wonder: Are you planning this constant police control on these most sensitive highways, which I think is the best cure for this vanity that happens on the roads?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you for that additional question. I'll try to give you the most concrete response. First of all, the Law on Warfare has nothing to do with trucks running on highways, and I don't see why I can connect it. Otherwise, it's very specific. In February we started intensively to carry out certain actions in the Prekmurje road area, in particular the emphasis on the border crossing of the Long Village. What's just going on? Why do we have more trucks on Slovenian roads? According to statistics - some truck up, down, but so, in mind, because unfortunately I don't have this data with me, but I had it for a few days on the table - about 6 years ago, the crossing of trucks at the border crossing of the Long Village, where the most trucks crossed the Slovenian-Hungarian border or even any of our borders, passed a few over 30,000 trucks. We are now in a position to cross this border almost a million trucks a year. These are enormous numbers that are not without consequences on roads and traffic density on roads. We came up with a number when the absolute number of the monthly passage of trucks in the last year, in the last month of last year, and in these months it has grown to more than 100,000 trucks per month. This has, of course, also increased because the EU has increased by two new members. And now these trucks, because there are no more customs checks, have changed their ways. Part of the trucks that used to travel through Serbia and Croatia are now travelling through Hungary and thus our roads are even more burdensome. The practical measure taken by the Government at this time is that we will carry out periodic technical checks on vehicles where we feel we need to do so at the very border and thus make entry difficult. Otherwise, when it comes to thinking about the ban, the total ban on overtaking trucks of certain weights on all highways, such thinking exists. We also discussed this at ministerial meetings. That is why the Ministry of the Interior has also foreseen this year in its programme a proposal to amend the law, irrespective of the fact that we are not the mother ministry for this law, but the Ministry of Transport. We are now studying certain technical solutions to make this happen. I can't promise you today that this will surely be accepted and confirmed, but I can tell you that we are very serious about this because of driving on the roads and even our own experience. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Even though I have a work vehicle, I drive very often in my personal vehicle, and I can experience what this traffic looks like.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has a question for two ministers, namely the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! At the end of December, we adopted a national road safety programme in the National Assembly until 2011, and the government recently adopted a road safety improvement plan for 2007. While we can generally see that traffic safety has improved over the past decade in our country on average, this is particularly true given the number of fatal accidents, but the latest statistics show a different trend. In recent years, the blackest year of 2004 was when 274 people died on our roads. Compared to 2005, the number of accidents last year did not decrease by a tenth of a percentage. In 2006, however, the number of injuries increased by 6% and the number of deaths in traffic accidents increased by 2%, from 257 to 262. At the beginning of March, however, in the field of transport safety this year, we find a very bad situation. Thus, 39 people died on our roads last year, which is more than 14 deaths in the same period last year. This year, the motoristic season also began very early, and data for the last two years are even more worrying, given the long average. In 2005, 23 motorists died, and last year it was 42. In the field of transport safety, however, there are still several neurological points. Among them are the level crossings of roads by rail, since we have 652 of the 972 crossings, which are marked only by road traffic signs. I therefore ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Home Affairs: How will you harmonise the functioning of ministries in carrying out the tasks of reducing traffic accidents on Slovenian roads and achieving the objectives set out in the National Road Safety Programme for the period 2007-2011? I thank both ministers very much in advance for their reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. First of all, Minister Christmas will be in charge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members.Oh, my God! On 18.12. the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a resolution on the national road safety programme. The main objective of the programme is to maintain at least 600 human lives on Slovenian roads by the end of 2011. The objective is ambitious and difficult to achieve, yet because of the unsatisfactory state of transport safety it was necessary to adopt and start a process of changing some organisational and functional foundations of the transport safety system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia appointed a working group to coordinate and supervise the implementation of the Resolution of the National Programme. It also adopted a similar road safety plan for 2007 in February. The Interresor Working Party for the Coordination and Monitoring of the Implementation of Strategic Transport Processes shall be chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Transport. In addition to the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Ministry of Finance, the Police, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the Council for Road Prevention and Education, Dars, both associations of Slovenian municipalities, the Association of Slovenian Road Companies, the Association of Drivers and Automechanics, the Slovenian Insurance Association and the Automotive Association of Slovenia. This month, the Interdepartmental Working Group is also expected to join the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice. The Interdepartmental Group I'm talking about has met twice. The first meeting was organised on the day of its establishment because of the current and unsatisfactory security situation. The second meeting of individual members of the group was held on 15.2.2007 in the large hall of the Municipality of Ljubljana, where they met with 160 presidents and secretaries of the municipal road safety councils and police traffic inspectors from the transport sector and police administrations. The main theme of the meetings was the joint and coordinated work this year and the exchange of practice. Despite the fact that specific transport safety actions and measures for greater safety are reflected in the documents already mentioned in 2007, I think it is right to say that we have shared the planning, management and coordination tasks of the various transport safety actions to be carried out this year, in accordance with the responsibility for security between the ministries. This is: in April action Speed and Global Security Week, in May action Safety Belt and Safety of Motorists and Mopedists, in July Speed, in October Pesca and in November and December Alcohol. The latter does not mean that there will be no other smaller joint activities and that they are not being implemented now. At our ministry last week we ended up with a preventive action for the pedestrians Be visible where we awarded 1,000 individuals and 50 best primary schools. In primary schools and first years of secondary school, we also run workshops on speed and alcohol in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Sport among young people. It is my opinion that the currently poor and unacceptable state of transport safety should not place the intended professional and long-term focus on the implementation of safety activities. We're on it, and we'll stay on top of it. This does not, of course, mean that the appropriateness of the plans and measures themselves will not be verified and adapted to future transport safety situations, if necessary. So much for my work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Minister Christmas. And now Mr. Mate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you. All I would add is that the Ministry of the Interior and the police, as a body in the Interdepartmental Working Group, are actively cooperating. We are very active members all the time, we are giving initiatives, proposals, and of course this is also expected of us. We are carrying out various actions, which are set out as previously described by Minister Bozič, at the national level as specifically targeted. At the same time, the police also carry out a number of other activities both at the national level and at the local level, ranging from school visits to special trainings and driving shows. As already mentioned, our ministry will be in charge of two projects this year. This is a speed-relief project and a project of activities to improve the safety of vehicles with single-wheeled vehicles, so to speak, engines. We will implement a safe driving plan, a demonstration of safe driving, not only at one end of Slovenia, but at different ends of Slovenia and in this way try to contribute to greater security. The project is very ambitious and I hope that with good cooperation we can succeed in this project. But I can see the current cooperation as very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk wishes to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have decided on this issue mainly because of these negative trends in the last period, and especially in the first two months of this year, nothing is better than early March, so I think it would be necessary to further intensify the work on preventive measures so that these trends do not continue and that they would not fall back in 2004 when more than 274 people died on our roads. But I can't get rid of some impression. When I read the officer's work last week, when it was said that police officers were supposed to deal with the new business mainly or also with the persecution of smokers in public spaces, and little less with the preventive work and persecution of road traffic violators, I am really interested, Mr. Minister: How do you view the new obligation that police officers are supposed to receive under the Cadillac Act? And: Would you rather not give priority to road safety? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you. The word is given by Minister Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Thank you for that additional question. In fact, preventive police work in transport is crucial. Otherwise, it sounds rather paradoxical, but the nice winters cause more traffic accidents in wintertime. Why? Simply because we do not have snow on the road, people have a great sense of security and think that they can drive even faster than is allowed or even in accordance with the regulations of permitted restrictions but we have morning mists that leave moisture on the road. This moisture then causes longer braking pathways and, as a result, several accidents occur. Not to excuse drivers or anything, but it's a paradox every year when winter is nice when there's no snow on the roads and there's no too much rain. There are a lot of grease stains and other materials on the road that come from vehicles that may not be well-equipped and, of course, there are such accidents. This is statistics that are repeated and repeated every year. I was able to teach myself why this is happening in the first three months, because I was also interested in what is happening on the roads and whether the police are too few on the roads. The answer is no. The police will continue to carry out this work with great commitment, and as I have already answered the previous question, this year we will continue to increase the number of vehicles we have with electronic speed measurement devices. We will increase the activities related to the verification of driver alcoholization. These are two of the most common causes of serious accidents with the most severe outcomes, with severe injuries or with death - excessive speed combined with alcohol. As far as the smoking law is concerned. The Cadillac Law is not yet in inter-departmental coordination. I think some newspapers interpret some of my colleagues' words a little bit in their own way, and then we get the addresses we get in the newspapers. My personal opinion on this is, of course, such that the police will still be doing the job they are in charge of. It will protect people's lives both on the roads and in other crimes, protect people's property and take care of these areas of work in particular. With regard to the smoking law itself, I think we can see very clearly what it will look like when it comes to your bench and you can assess for yourself how much truth there is in what some media have been very bombastic to predict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Zalokar Orazem, who will ask Minister Cotman a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Respected few colleagues and colleagues, as well as a respected minister and minister. I think that all of us who ask questions, and even those who answer them, are probably feeling a little sadomasochistic after 6:00, because we don't really know about the repugnantness of this whole thing. But anyway, it's an opportunity to talk about something, and I think we're talking about extremely important things. In recent days, he has had a major impact on the tragic event in the Zdenska village near Grosuplje. Every time something like this happens, the public goes public, the media are full of articles, everyone wonders about the causes, we look at various statistics and surveys about domestic violence, which are of course worrying. And then, of course, months go by until the next tragic event, when everything happens again. At the same time, it is clear to us that unfortunately, among the possible reasons for the events are those in which the country bears part of its co-responsibility. And it turns out that two, at the time of analysis: that the adoption of a comprehensive law against domestic violence is necessary, and on the other hand that institutions, and this under the powers of the State involved, do not participate well, but I mean the prosecutions, the centres for social work, the police and the courts. And ministers, usually from the social and family sectors, are constantly promising changes and a new law that we are waiting for and waiting for. We also have this time, Madam Minister, your public assurance that the law will be in the process by summer, which means accepting somewhere by the end of the year and, of course, unfortunately again for a year and perhaps again for another crime. Do you really still need that much time? For, according to the known data, the law was prepared at a certain stage, it has been worked on in the past by the Minister of Justice, Mrs Zdenka Cerar, and also by the Ombudsman, I think he has been very active in this area. Of course, I am pleased with your promises, I hope that they are truly sincere, and also the intentions that you have presented as the basis of the future marriage, I must say that I welcome them. However, I appeal to you to maximize the adoption of this law and that you may also achieve a coordinated work by an independent interdepartmental commission of institutions that should participate in persecution or domestic violence.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you so much for asking. Since I think this issue is very important, I have already promised, at the beginning of my mandate, that we will prepare a special Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which is why it is also included in this year's government work plan, so it is envisaged that it will come to the Government at the end of July. In the family code, which we started preparing last year, this was part of the chapter. However, I mentioned at the outset that this is such an important topic that it must be a special system law, so we have approached it. You're asking why this marriage is being prepared so long. True, Professor Filipčič has already prepared a starting point for this law, but something has already been done in this area, as we know under the Police Act, and also in other laws. This basic law, on the other hand, meant only violence against women. However, we believe that violence - I mean, we have set target groups, not only women, but also children, older people and people with disabilities. Today, it has already been mentioned that we are equal in scope in the year and that we must also work against violence by these vulnerable target groups. That's why we started drafting this law. We are also preparing a criminal code at the Ministry of Justice and also with the Ministry of Justice, and we have specifically pointed out that there must also be a special chapter in this criminal code on domestic violence, as Professor Filipčičev's draft law itself has made reference to the fact that this is not defined in the criminal code. This is how I contribute in parallel to other ministries that are preparing certain legislation, which also tantamount to crimes or violence. The reasons for the preparation of the Law on the Prevention of Violence are well known to us, but above all we want to inform the lay public about the inviolability of the body, and above all about zero tolerance for violence. Unsatisfying is also the case with regard to assisting victims of violent acts, as well as assisting perpetrators of such acts or domestic violence. There is also a need for a coordinated approach by all competent authorities to domestic violence. At the same time, there is a need to provide as much education as possible for professional workers, competent institutions. Here I mean both the prosecution, the judiciary, the centres for social work and the police, and we must not neglect the areas of education and education. The need for a clear consensus to develop the doctrines and rules of cooperation, protocols for work and action in cases of domestic violence. The main objective of the document is to direct the efforts of institutions, countries and civil society to create conditions and circumstances that will ensure the life of all residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia in a safe environment, as well as a secure life in the family. The document highlights the importance of planning and coordinating the implementation of all those activities of state institutions, civil society and the reduction of violence in all areas where we can influence. The key aim of the law is to reduce violence in the family and society in general, to define family members in the law - here we mean not only the immediate family members, but also blood relatives and in the community - to ensure the coordinated functioning of the competent institutions and to lay down sanctions, in so far as they are not respected, and in particular to ensure the protection of children and adults with the experience of violence against sensational media reporting and to introduce a ban on corporal punishment of children and the prohibition of media exposure of children and of victims of violence themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Complementary answer, Mrs. Orzmova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. I think that you have also made enough public and, not least, commitments before Parliament that there will be changes. Above all, it seems to me that you will also play an important role in this, that you are a minister, that is to say, a hard woman, and I also appeal to you in this sense, because despite all the fact that violence in the family is not only against women but also against children and also partly against men, but in the majority, over 80% in some way of statistics shows that this violence is unfortunately directed against women. Nevertheless, I appeal once again, according to the information I have, much of what you've just been talking about is already ready. I am confident that, as far as I can see, there could be a law in the procedure some month earlier and that there is no need to detect America in this area, because the Ombudsman, Mr Hanžek, has done a great deal in this area. We also had a special consultation here, but unfortunately your predecessor was not so inclined to do so, and I just really welcome this gesture that you have already promised at the time of your term of office. Above all, it seems to me that it is necessary to establish a coordinating body in this area as soon as this year, and this will not change the law itself, but I think it is right to get used to the coordination body in this area, because what we have seen at this point is that there are many, many shortcomings. And in that sense, once again, I appeal to you to establish such a coordinating body immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want another word?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u184	The Section for Combating Domestic Violence, as well as in relation to the law, has been established. The problem of why the law is being drawn up over time is, above all, to harmonise criminal law with civil law, because we believe that the perpetrator of a violent act must also have consequences. Therefore, we are now considering the possibility of the perpetrator moving out of the apartment. For we know that most women bear burdens, even though violence has been committed against them, they must leave the apartment alone, and therefore we have safe houses and homes. We are now studying the possibilities in civil law to achieve that the perpetrator himself bears his or her burden or responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked to the absent Minister of Finance, Mr Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honors are here! The suspicion of corruption in taking over the majority share of the General Navigation is certainly a topic that cannot be discussed and written. In 1994, the General Sailing came under state ownership. At that time, this National Assembly decided to repay 70 million debts from the Treasury and to issue a guarantee for outstanding debts to the Bank of Koper. This bank would've gone bankrupt then, too. Since the workers did not actually receive more monthly income, the Government set up a company with a mandate and appointed Mr Zevnik as director of the then trade union. And this gentleman sold a majority share of this company to Mr Döhl, a German shipowner who has over 300 ships in charge. And gentlemen who have come in this way, a kind of paradox and also an agent of the workers today in the General Sailing, moving today, I would like to buy it. Mercata, who was also a Slovenian company and is still in this ownership share today, was expelled from the governance structure and the SOD and KAD had no influence in fact, because gentlemen - Mr Bandelj was also the president of the union of one another, today the director - just appointed their supervisors. The German shipowner immediately demanded a 4% commission of all transactions, and the General Navigation Ship was the first to sell - and interestingly, then this was prevented by the mentioned Mercate company Lucija, Kanin, Kras, Kranj and Celje from being sold today. But later he put these ships into his "pool" relationship. And there's a fat profit market in this area. Mr Peter Döhle also has a criminal complaint in many countries. The most obvious example is the "copy paste" of the Croatian Adriatic, where he also picked up this company. And today, when we talk about why for God's sake we don't know how to protect Slovenian interest and sell this company to the economy of Slovenia, there is no answer. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Even more so, it is clear in the corridors of the General Navigation that this transaction has already been paid and that the Minister of Finance has received a certain amount to ensure the purchase of the German. [[...]] I am personally threatened because I cannot talk about it; and interestingly, I have already received a written answer to the oral question, which is a kind of paradox. I want the Minister to answer the question posed to me publicly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] How will it protect Slovenia's public interest? [[...]] Of course, the only Slovenian shipowner we cannot put into the hands of a foreigner, and: What does he intend to do by investigating all the irregularities that have taken place within this company? Court of Auditors, Kosovo Commission [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Han, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister-in-Charge, respectable council. Last October, the ruling coalition adopted the Act on the Coordination of Transfers of Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, which harmonised the coordination of social transfers and also some rights under paid social security contributions. A rare exception, and thank God, they were pensions. The coalition even forced the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, although there was no commercial basis for that. I don't know if the government has assessed that transfer recipients are in some way threatening the country. At the time of the adoption of the law, we strongly opposed the social democrats. In particular, we have warned that the income position of the recipients of most transfers will deteriorate at the expense of the new law, especially compared to the beneficiaries of pensions and salaries. We have warned that the law did not go through the process of coordination with the social partners and that it is insufficiently explained because there were no calculations on what the adoption of the law would mean for the individual categories of beneficiaries included in this law. Despite all the arguments, the coalition insisted on adopting legislation which, in my opinion, is the most threatened. How the law works in practice can be seen in the last reconciliation of pensions. Pensioners with higher pensions increased by a good 3%, while the income of those with the lowest pensions remained the same due to the reduction of the security allowance. Nor has there been an increase in the allowance for Slovenian citizens who receive pensions from other republics of the former common country. These pensioners receive an allowance because their pensions are too low for a normal life, and now their total income will be increasingly lagging behind the income of their colleagues who fully receive our pension. Dear Minister, I ask you today: How do you assess the impact of the adopted Act on the coordination of transfers of individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia on the social situation of people with the lowest income? Since the law already causes a relative deterioration in the income situation of the lowest-income groups: Are you thinking of changing the coordination of social transfers and regulating it more justly? Finally: In your opinion, what effect will this law have on the movement of the risk of poverty, where data for Slovenia are still favourable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your questions. There are no changes in key social transfers in the field of materially most vulnerable, such as cash social assistance, child allowances and cash benefits. Nothing's changed here. I mean, the material situation of these weakest groups has remained unchanged or has not deteriorated, and some social transfers are due to simplification of coordination or new coordination for the better. These are mainly parental benefits, maternity benefits and paternity benefits. Indeed, some transfers, due to the unification of coordination, are lower or will grow slower than they have so far, mainly due to inadequate, not the most logical coordination in the past. These are a supplement for help and service, a veteran supplement, sick. The existing system is fair, according to our assessment, because there is no basis for social transfers to be coordinated differently, at different times, several times a year, in different ways. As we know, they were coordinated according to the different types of wages, the minimum wages, then the gross wages and also the different costs. We therefore believe that the current law or purpose of the law was to coordinate social transfers. The level of risk of poverty will not deteriorate simply because of the uniform coordination of transfers. As I mentioned earlier, the situation of the most vulnerable and weak has not changed since their respective transfers are coordinated in the same way as before the introduction of uniform coordination, with price increases aimed at maintaining purchasing power or in the same way of living. By adopting such arrangements in the field of social transfer coordination, Slovenia has introduced more order, fairness and greater transparency. Slovenia's adoption of the law itself has done nothing differently than other European countries, where social transfers are largely aligned with the rise in the price of living costs and thus achieve, on the one hand, dedicated adequacy and, on the other hand, financial sustainability of public finances. As I have already mentioned, the law has established different ways of valorising, and the first is based on rising prices of living needs. Previously, there were also different periods of valorisation, monthly, twice a year, as well as several times a year. We have now put in place a uniform way of coordinating once a year, thereby giving a greater overview and even greater fairness regarding social transfers. In reply to Mrs Possonchev's question about pensions or a protective allowance, I mentioned earlier that we will review or examine the possibility of this situation being resolved in the new "SPIZ" law in the form of a protective supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Han wants to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. In principle, I agree that it makes sense for transfers to be coordinated in a uniform way. When considering the law, we specifically proposed that all such transfers in the law should be coordinated in the same way as those laid down for the coordination of pensions in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In this way, we would certainly ensure equal treatment for all citizens, while maintaining the relationship between the types of income achieved, since this is certainly not the case until now in the latter case. The government opposed this because there would be no right to contribute to social security and there would be social transfers. This, of course, is not true, as there is also a whole lot of those that come from work rights or social security contributions among transfers that are newly coordinated in a less favourable way, at least for us. In spite of all our arguments, the coalition insisted on its own. Dear Minister, very briefly and clearly, if you can answer me: Does such unequal treatment seem fair and fair to you?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Again, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u194	As I mentioned earlier, there have been no changes in certain areas of those most at risk. These are mainly cash social assistance, child allowances and cash benefits. There is also the largest number of recipients of these social transfers and there has been no change. As I mentioned, they're even bigger. Where differences have been detected, however, in the protective supplement, we will explore the possibilities of a new pension law to correct the impact of the weakest groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Sok will ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Minister, and all ministers of the Slovenian People's Party, good evening. So I will be very brief, but I will try to be precise, but I think Minister Podobnik also knows where the heart of the problem is. I don't know, 14 days, three weeks ago, at the initiative of the Ministry of Environment and Space, we had a meeting on the problems some of our citizens have with regard to Schengen, the Schengen border. It is a problem that they have access to their homes through the territory of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia and that within the framework of Schengen this means that prisoners will be placed there; once they go outside the country of Slovenia and the second time they return to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. At this meeting, there was somehow no single answer as to how the congregations, these 20, 21 congregations, should act in this regard. Even the best answer was received by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which somehow indicated how this problem could be solved if it was to manage forest roads. But otherwise, of course, if this is not a problem of forest roads and in this situation, the situation in the municipalities in relation to our legislation is such that we can only solve this problem in a way that we can make complete documentation. So we're breaking through to the building permit. The way to this, you have already told how long it is to do this in response to the third development axis. So I estimate that, in due course, until we actually enter the Schengen area, we cannot make this happen, so, of course, Mr Minister, I ask you: Would it not be possible to avoid this in some way, as they did in neighbouring Croatia? Croatia has fully resolved its problems and has simply built new road links across its territory to its citizens. At the Ministry of Regional Development, they ensure that it is money. I'd ask you, what are you going to do at the Ministry? Do you not think that the problem could be solved in the same way as, say, by special law, the problem of border crossings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question to Ambassador New Slovenia, Mr Sok. Indeed, one of the obligations that has been met by our department related to the content of your question was the commitment of the Government to establish a working group to provide a substitute road network to the local population in the border area with the Republic of Croatia. This working group is attended by a number of representatives of different departments, from the Directorate for Space, Geodetic Administration, Transport, Public Administration, especially the role of the Government service for local self-government and regional policy, as well as for foreign affairs, and not least the Ministry of Finance, but also the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food - a very large inter-ministerial working group tasked with analysing individual cases of the road network, proposing solutions, continuing its work and tasks, and also finding institutions that will enable the local population to provide or enable the transition to Slovenia without crossing the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is also the duty of the Slovenian State to arrange this, but of course, to also provide such proposals with financial, investment valuation and to propose a way of financing. This subgroup is actually again, I would say, finding all the cases in Slovenia where Slovenian citizens access their facilities only by crossing the state border or, perhaps, a disputed area along the border. The agreement was that in this group of these cases, which you mentioned - around 20 municipalities, if I am not mistaken - this is that this issue is not being resolved, for example, with some other context or within the framework of plans for international border crossings, this is covered by the Ministry of Public Administration or by colleagues in transport covering the Green Border project. As you have already mentioned, Mr President and Mr Mayor, in the middle of last month, the working group organised a meeting where you were also representatives of the municipalities and you went through what has happened so far, you presented your expectations and how you would proceed and determine further steps. The agreement is that, obviously, from the case to the case of the municipalities, the issue is very different, that it is simple from the congregation to the congregation and that on the list of necessary roads, it should be verified what the municipal spatial acts are like to implement the necessary roads and, in any event, to determine further steps. In a spatial sense, they are not all alike. Next week, the first meetings begin. I also have information about the finances you were talking about, here is a relatively good picture. This year, the Government's Local Self-Government and Regional Policy Service will have more than €4 million available through the Structural Funds and the Operational Programme to strengthen regional development potentials from this source, and they will provide 600 000 euros themselves, so that it is significantly more money than last year, and the sum is the same for the next year, and here I see a solution from the municipality to the community, from the case to the case, but it is true that we are studying whether the problems of uncategorised roads, followed by public transport, would be better addressed by changes in legislation. So, we're also going to explore this path, and if this path is the right way, then I think he's going to get the job of a colleague of Christmas, because he covers this area. However, since this is an interdepartmental working group, the solution will then be proposed in the Government and we will decide which steps to take. Last year, for the first time, a call was made to municipalities to co-finance this priority infrastructure, and as you yourself said that municipalities could benefit from this money, they would have to have prepared projects that envision building permits, not always, but almost always, but pre-condition for building permits is the regulation of spatial acts of municipalities. And there's also a problem you've been alerting us to, and we're aware of it in our ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u200	I would just like to thank the Minister for this comprehensive reply and because there are all three ministers who actually know this problem, I would just like to ask that they somehow oversee this working group, because the rank of ministers is something other than the rank of those who are placed on the committee. That's what I'd like to ask you. But I'm satisfied, and if money is, then we're actually trying to resolve this matter as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Well, sometimes complimentary thanks don't hurt. However, we continue to ask questions and invite Mr Shirco to ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I think the Minister of Health is in the house, so I'd like to ask [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u203	However, if he arrives in time, he will answer if he does not, but you can invite him to answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u204	When he left, he said that he would wait for the answer, so I would call for him to move to this place if he was in the house, given that the question was raised in a way that he needed dialogue or an answer. However, I do not, I admit, like that this is how Member issues are degraded when a very narrow group on the part of the Government, as well as by Members and Members, is still held back if the questions get a little distracted. Well, then it's obvious that Mr. Bručan lied to us when he said he was coming back.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u205	Business has no other option than to continue or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u206	My question to the Minister, whom I hope to hear the answer to, but secondly, is related to the proposal of a law which he has put into circulation and with which many disagree and not itself, unless the Minister has justified it in any other way than he obviously did. This is the Health and Health Insurance Act, which will have fatal consequences for self-employed people, not only in the field of culture, but also for farmers, journalists, athletes, entrepreneurs, in short, for the number of [[...]] [[Returning Minister Bručan to the Chamber.]] Do I say it again? Yes, you will allow me, Madam Vice President, so that the Minister may hear the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u207	The Minister probably listened, so I suggest you proceed, and I will be more tolerant in filling in the question or answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you. In short, Mr. Minister, I ask you with the question: Will you insist on the solutions of the draft Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, which substantially increases the contribution to compulsory health insurance for 30,000 independent entrepreneurs, culturers, athletes, farmers and so on? And: On the basis of what analysis did you come up with these solutions? Will you also maintain a solution that suggests that this increased percentage of compulsory health insurance should also apply to authors’ fees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you so much for asking. Here, of course, the issue is quite extensive. In response, it should actually start with what the proposed bill specifically contains. [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, maybe some things aren't, so I'd like to explain. It has been found that in the first and second pension classes, with a minimum wage basis or 120% of the minimum wage, more than 30,000 singles have been classified. There are also more than 97% of farmers in the first two classes, or 13,800 in total. But something else needs to be said here, which is also found that certain debtors who receive salaries from public funds are reporting lower bases for paying contributions than are calculated under collective agreements. The proposal for a new amendment to this proposal provides that the minimum basis for the payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance is 702 euros, provided that the debtor reaches an annual income of more than EUR 7,500. If the debtor fails to reach this income, he continues to pay a minimum wage contribution of EUR 522. For farmers there is another exception for a group that pays 60% of the minimum wage, that is, 318 euros. However, the debtors also have the opportunity to apply for a reduction if the assessment is that their income will not be achieved at the expected level. Commitments that will achieve higher income than the lowest gross pension base, that is 702 euros, will also continue to be classified in the remaining 6 pension classes as before. The information should be stated that only expenditure on health programmes and services, medicines, medical supplies in the last year amounted to around €880, and no cash compensation for hospital and travel costs was added here. As more and more work is done on the basis of copyright and business contracts, the law in the proposal extends the bases for the calculation and payment of contributions to compulsory health insurance with current gross wages and gross compensation also to copyright contracts, business contracts, other payments and reimbursements of costs in accordance with the specific law governing social security. The amount of this contribution is 5.35% which is to be paid by either the contractor of the contract or the contracting authority of the copyright or business contract as agreed. I have to say that all of these solutions that I'm talking about here right now and all of these data related to the long-term negotiations that have been going on, I'm going to say, one and a half years. There were 22 negotiations between the social partners and the Economic and Social Council's decision was positive and unanimous in this regard. I must say that it has already been made clear at this meeting of the Economic and Social Council that we will still be able to reconcile certain things later and this has proved to be true because we have already agreed with the representatives of farmers in the process and negotiations are currently under way or have agreed with journalists. I think it's gonna be over this week and it wasn't there at the first meeting. I was alone with some special things that we couldn't solve. So that, in essence, some minimal changes in this regard may still occur, but in principle, substantial changes, but at least we do not expect fundamental changes. Indeed, this is essential because there is a need to settle some solidarity. We need to know that the essential difference in the payment of the contribution to health insurance by individual categories and that these categories differ up to five times, I am talking about average amounts for farmers, for self-employed persons and for those who are employed in the framework of, say, economics or public institutions. It's not at all a big increase here, it's basically some minimal correction that basically changes things, but we don't really make any changes in all other further classes. I therefore do not think that this is a major change, but it is an attempt to try to make a slightly greater level playing field between the solidarity of individual groups in health insurance burdens.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca wishes to complete her reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u212	If I understand your suggestions correctly - it is not true that this would be a non-essential increase because, say, self-employed people in the field of culture are supposed to contribute 35% and 34% more money to compulsory health insurance than they are now. So if we meet now with some 67 euros they're paying, they'll be after the new 90 euros. Of course, now we are dealing with a specific category of people here, by the way, for farmers and craftsmen, I think you've already coordinated somehow, at least that's how the media reported, and I haven't seen that for the self-employed in the field of culture, but I know what that means if this percentage so goes up. For it is not even a solidarity salvation, as you have said now, but according to my visions, the new classification will be the most hurt to those classes that are already paying on a higher basis, but will not pay much more - in short, the ones who earn less will be most affected and are already classified in the first or second insurance class. [[...]] I think it's also very wrong to assume - if this is the only analysis, I don't know - that many people avoid paying contributions, in short, almost cheat. But even with journalists, it is not as gentle and insignificant a solution, given that we often meet with authors' fees as elsewhere. Will free independent journalists then be taxed twice in the future, it is said, not only from the contribution of compulsory insurance, which will be increased, but also from the taxation of copyright fees? In short, where are the tests? And: Will you really insist or will you negotiate anything else, because I think that at least for the self-employed in the field of culture will be shocking. Shock.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much for this additional question. I think it's too much of an expression to say it's a shock. I don't think it's going to be a shock, but actually it's going to be a shock at this lower level, the lower category, that's the correct 40% calculation, but it's not true that in all the other categories there would be the same increase, so what you've presented, someone might understand that this is an average 34% increase in contributions from these categories, which, of course, is not true. I think that at this time, which is still ahead of us, we will reach agreement with the press in every way and even if - I think it is obvious now that there is a need for us to coordinate in particular with cultural and cultural actors in this form, so that this agreement can also be completed and we will explain matters there. After we explain to all the categories what's going on here, I think it's a lot easier. We thought that it was in line with the fact that this law was a year and a half practically in public debate, that it was always before the public, that all the comments were also addressed through the Economic and Social Council. Obviously this has not happened, and we will do so with those categories that have this desire to further discuss and clarify some things. Even with cultural representatives, I don't think it's going to be that hard, not that it's going to be easy. However, I must say that we have made as many proposals as possible by the Ministry at this time, and more options that could regulate these things have required a very demanding accounting procedure, if only they had been applied solely on the basis of the calculation of contributions to compulsory health insurance. Therefore, in these negotiations, which lasted, as I said, a year and a half, the social partners took into account the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce to take into account the lowest basis for calculating contributions to compulsory health insurance the lowest gross pension base, and all other pension bases and also this basis for paying contributions to compulsory health insurance remain the same as before. This was in agreement with the Chamber of Commerce, but, as I said in the introductions, there is an additional agreement, discussion and, of course, compromise with representatives of culture or employees in this way in culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u215	Please, Mrs. Shirca. I assume it's a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u216	I will propose that we do, however, have a wider debate. Indeed, this is a bill I agree with, but the Chamber of Commerce, for example, is not a cultural chamber. And also obviously the Ministry of Culture, which I also asked, is that the deadline has not yet expired, but he did not explain what such a new one means in terms of "tax" for cultural creators, who we know must also cover all the costs of health insurance, pension insurance, accounting, legal advice, ec., even the first 30 working days of the hospital do not belong to them and the second return that belongs to them. In short, it is a very sensitive segment of the population, which eventually pays some of these contributions to the country, which means that the country itself would be burdened. I propose that, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, this conversation, after all, I refer to Mr Janez Janša, who said, "No new taxes." And this is a paradox, which means a further 34% increase in contributions to the area of self-employed people in the field of culture; not to speak, this response to copyright fees has not been sufficiently transparent or at least credible for me. I'd be happy to have this conversation in the National Assembly if you'll support it. After all, it can also help a better marriage at the start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mrs. Shirca. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly, as usual, in the framework of the vote tomorrow. We are moving on to the second round of parliamentary questions, because there are few of us left to fight, but they say that quality is more important than quantity. I give the word "magic." A drill to ask Dr. Zhagar a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is true, above all, that it is important to talk about the content of the matter and, as a colleague said, Mr Janez Janša said that no new taxes are available, but we are obviously getting new taxes in different forms. My question is related to a similar dilemma: Will the Government be late to prepare the basis for drawing up European projects from the financial perspective 2007-2013, and will there be negative effects on the state budget and probably, therefore, the great needs for additional taxation, raising contributions or whatever the ministers, particularly financial ones, are doing in this regard? Of course, I would like to ask the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, even if it would be good for the Minister of Finance to examine this issue in detail. This is because it is problematic to draw on European funds, that in 2005 we have only 62% of these funds drawn and that we will obviously have around 70% drawn in 2006 from the forecasts made in the budgets adopted by the National Assembly. The government is sworn in its documents, in its memorandums, stability programmes to draw full funding from the EU. However, only on 16 February 2007, one year and two months after the next financial perspective was adopted, the government decided and the EU forwarded a so-called national strategic framework with some operational programmes. It is not clear when the state development programme will be adopted. It is not clear when, given the delay in the adoption of the national development programme, there will then be a 2007 rebalancing, the 2008 budget changes, and it is therefore not clear when European funds could be drawn, for example for the Third Development Axis project. Mr Janša's third development axis project promised to be implemented in 2008. This was promised at a meeting on the occasion of a visit to Koroška, visiting the Savini-Shale region. We have already heard today that this project may be placed in the premises at the end of 2008, 2009, and then the budget rebalancies, the development agenda plan, and then the calls need to be made and then they bury the first shovels. And after they bury the first shovels, it takes some time for us to get the money from the EU. This is a serious delay, which has decreased slightly in 2005-2006, but due to the delay in the adoption of the 2007-2013 framework, this delay is increasing significantly. So, Mr Minister, when will the adoption of documents allowing for even reflection on the allocation of funds take place?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Jagar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the question, too, because this is an extremely complex area in terms of fund management and I am grateful that we can also explain in the National Assembly how the procedures are. However, first of all, because you have just mentioned the existing financial perspective, you would also touch on these topics. I must tell you that in the area of structural funds at the level of which the European Commission is measuring, Slovenia has absorbed 70% of all the funds of the Structural Funds and the next country is behind us, for example, Estonia with 45% of these funds. Thus, as regards the existing financial perspectives, I say that all the funds will be exhausted, and I am confident that all the funds from the following financial perspective will be drawn up, which covers a period of up to 2013, i.e. seven years or because of M+2, which is also actually linked to activities in this area, for the next two years. In other words, as regards the preparation of these documents, the basis for drawing is actually four basic documents, as already mentioned in the national strategic reference framework, which represents the overall strategy and objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. More specifically, this strategy is developed in three main operational programmes: an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials, an operational programme to develop human resources and an operational programme to develop environmental and transport infrastructure. These documents guide the bulk of the available cohesion policy resources, namely €4.1 billion, and the remaining €104 million relate to the area of territorial cooperation for cross-border programmes, which are the most important financial and strategically important, but these funds are significantly less than €97 million and transnational interregional programmes. This area covers 13 operational programmes under which Slovenia represents and national interests together in preparation with neighbouring countries or with neighbouring partners. In particular, there are four operational programmes of cooperation across borders with neighbouring countries and cooperation in the Adriatic Initiative, four transnational operational programmes and four inter-regional operational programmes. Now, as far as financial weight is concerned, if we limit ourselves to the three main operational programmes, it is necessary to say that approximately the operational programme for strengthening regional development potentials, which is mainly fueled by the regional fund, weighs well a billion and 700 million euros, the operational programme for the development of human resources is good 750 million euros, and the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructures is billions and 400. And so, of course, the cohesion fund allowance and the development axis allowance, also for the third development axis, from the regional fund of a good EUR 200 million. Now, with regard to the preparation of all these documents, I must say that Slovenia has taken an immediate approach to the preparation of these documents when the negotiations were concluded, with intensive, informal work coordination with the European Commission taking place throughout this period, as well as, of course, a public debate and also an interdepartmental debate on the coordination of programme documents. As part of these activities, for the first time, the national strategic reference framework has been informally forwarded to the European Commission since 20.5. The second meeting with the European Commission was held on 20.9., 12.12.2006. We also took note of the programming documents of the National Assembly, the Committee on European Affairs. 18.1.2007 we had a third technical meeting with the European Commission. On the basis of all these contributions, activities, coordination, the Government 16.2. endorsed the formal proposal for programming documents and also formally forwarded to Brussels, while all previous coordinations have been carried out over time and are therefore substantively, in particular in terms of the allocation of funds by the IP and development priorities, the programming documents have been aligned with the Commission in principle. In this part, we expect in particular coordination on technical and design elements, such as the definition of indicators, the distinction between different content, mechanisms and monitoring similar. I would also like to say that, at a given time of transmission of these documents, Slovenia joined a group of 7 countries of the 27 countries, which, by that time, had officially submitted all the necessary software documents. Of course, as regards official confirmations, like other countries, we expect confirmation in the coming months.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u221	Time's up, there's gonna be another round. Now, Mr. Squeakl, complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u222	Look, Minister, everything you talk to the European Union is nice, but in the budgets, in the documents adopted in the National Assembly, of course, the numbers are different. You claim in the documents adopted by the Government that the national strategic framework for 2007 is 707 million tolars. When we deduct agriculture, we come to 550 million euros; however, Mr Minister, we have only 402 million euros in the 2007 budget without agriculture written down. I ask you, until the 2007 budget rebalancing, it is not possible to start calls even if the European Commission now allows and approves this framework. You have to make a balance, Mr. Minister of Finance is not here. At the same time, of course, I note that in a programme called the State Development Programme, which is on the Government's website in the draft, otherwise you have some material, but there are no core documents, particularly links to the preparation of the 2007-2008 state budget. I am not concerned that we are becoming a group of countries that, say, will have this relatively quickly aligned with the European Union. I am concerned that the country, which falls very few projects from 2004-2006 in 2007-2008 under the M+2 principle, will therefore have a major problem with the fall of European projects in 2007-2008 at about one percentage point. Last but not least, this is proved by data for 2006. In 2006, there was a fall in European projects with respect to the budget adopted, Minister, irrespective of the state development programme or the single programming document, for over 100 million euros. Of course, EUR 100 million is out in 2006, if this continues in 2007 and 2008, it will create big holes, and Banka Slovenije talked about this when it warned you about deficits. Mr Minister: When will the government come with a rebalancing and put this into the state budget?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you. Dr. Zhagar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u224	Yeah, now I'm saying it again. As far as the current financial perspective is concerned, we had to make considerable efforts to get the whole European fund-raising drive as far as it was, because, if this did not happen, the situation would be significantly worse; we know that there was virtually no such pumping at the beginning of 2005. Again, I repeat that Slovenia is pursuing this goal and will also draw on all the funds. As regards the follow-up activities related to pumping, I have already explained. It is anticipated that once we have received the Commission's first official position on the basis of the documents transmitted, this will be expected somewhere in March, but it is not only up to us, and it is also up to the European Commission, that it is possible to proceed immediately to the implementation of calls, to the implementation of calls, in accordance with the planned appropriations in the 2007 budget and also in 2008 budget, as we are talking about multiannual programmes and projects. It is precisely from this title, because, once again, on principle, we therefore assess at this substantive level that virtually all content is already harmonised. Moreover, as far as the costs of this period are concerned, I would point out, however, that the Regulations apply from 1.1.2007 onwards. Therefore, the costs set out in this Title, those which will be in line with the Regulations, in accordance with the guidelines, will also be able to use and apply as costs from the following financial perspective. In line with the 2007 planned budget, this would also point out that planning in this part has also been carried out in parallel with the preparation of documents in last year and is coordinated in this part - it will be possible to take on the next financial perspective, of course, following our assessment, taking into account the next period and also all the specificities that the new financial period brings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. And a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a procedural proposal. I think that the issue of non-contribution of European funds is so serious that it would be appropriate to hold a general debate on this, not only on the content of what the Government is currently discussing with the European Commission, but not on the whole or in the Slovenian public. Except, of course, that Mr Janez Janša travels through Slovenia and promises the third development axis 2.8., she will not be 2.8. The dilemma that is is very simple. When projects from the new financial period begin to draw on them, it is usually 10%, 15% in the first year of this draw, in 2004 and in the second year of 2005, that is how the pumping is increasing. For 2007, the Minister foresees pumping, saying and writing, EUR 707 million, which is 2% of gross domestic product. These are fantastic numbers. However, the Member, Members, not even the euro has yet been called for, not only that there is not yet a call for proposals, but that the documents are not ready for the call for proposals and that, once the calls are ready, the projects must win, then the projects must be made and then the money will start to flow from the European Union. Mr Minister, this is my forecast, due to the circumstances of the late call for European projects in 2007 and 2008 there will be serious public financial problems. Let me remind you, since May 1, 2004, all the projects have already been announced. Today, today, March 5th, you are also discussing with the European Union what will be the priorities. This is not least proved by the actual drawdown for 2006 when we have a large delay of EUR 100 million and the data for 2007 and 2008, when there is about one third of the delay between the documents in the budget and the documents you sent to the European Union. I therefore believe that this is a matter of general discussion that the Government, which at least for the period 2004-2006, I give you this recognition, has begun to take this rather seriously and that these projects will at least be drawn to the fullest extent by the delay, have begun to prepare too late for the 2007-2013 perspective and therefore, Mr Minister, the projects to be launched in 2007 may draw on 2009, 2010. In the meantime, due to the principle of cash flow, the budget hole will be normal and therefore, even though Mr Janša says there will be no new taxes, he will have to invent various contributions, various VAT increases, excise duties and so on. I propose that we hold a general debate on this. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you very much, mag. Squeak. As usual, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the context of the vote. Now I give the word "magic." To ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Madam Minister, Minister! Madam Minister, it has already been mentioned today that you have made some changes in the work of your ministry and in the government's work plan. That's why I need to ask you what you're planning on doing with social work centres. I am talking about 62 centres for social work distributed throughout Slovenian territory, for which the former Minister planned the reorganisation of the network and the establishment of 12 regional centres for social work. A particular question is whether the state institution that deals with people and is dedicated to people can centralise, and even if it is to the regional centres, let us now leave the number according to the estimated number of provinces, but whether it is prudent or not. Therefore, the first question is: Are you planning to start reorganisation of social work centres and the envisaged network to continue or implement? The second part of the question is that people are turning to social work centres who expect to be treated with care, professionally, humanely, and above all by maintaining human dignity despite the hardship they face. In assessing the work of social work centres, we often witness generalisations, including simplifications and sudden judgments about the work of the centres, of course, it is mainly about negative judgments. Of course, there are also cases where the allegations are justified, in which I think it is necessary to distinguish between what is the result of negligence or inappropriate treatment of people, from what is due to inadequate legislation, staff, or even inadequately allocated tasks and obligations of employees. We have different cases where workers cannot do everything they want to do, because standards and standards for their work are not so determined that they can do their work in a qualitative manner. So I ask you: When will the standards and standards for employees be adopted? And: Will you also review the systemisation of jobs in the centres and allow new jobs, if necessary? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the reorganisation of social work centres in last year has raised a lot of pressure mainly on the Community of Social Work Centres. After the new year, I met with the Community of Centres for Social Work and took into account their proposal to essentially join the pilot project to reorganise social work centres on the basis of one model and then, on the basis of this model introduced this year, join or get a model of how to reorganise social work centres. With the reorganisation of social work centres, we cannot be too far ahead of the adoption of legislation in relation to the envisaged regionalisation in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, with the reorganisation of social work centres alone, we will not rush forward and, as I said before, we will introduce a pilot project, and on this model or project we will identify the shortcomings or advantages of such a model, which, of course, stems from the objectives of the resolution of the national social protection programme. With regard to your issue concerning the adoption of legislation, the Community of Centres for Social Work has already drawn up a proposal for standards and standards, of course in accordance with the amended legislation that we have adopted and also in accordance with the resolution of the National Social Protection Programme. This proposal is currently being sent, now recently, to our ministry and will be coordinated next week. This proposal will be coordinated with the Community of Centres for Social Work, in particular with the legislation adopted and also with the family law that we are preparing now, as we anticipate the transfer of the competences of some of the Centre for Social Work to the courts. This would reduce, of course, the work will increase with the said resolution on the national social protection programme and also the Act on the grant, as we anticipate that the state, current republican scholarships will be transferred to social work centres, so these proposals, which will take into account the additional work or burden of social work centres in the coming days, and with the proposed standards and standards, should also review the systematisation and needs for new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mag. Spending. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you for that part of the answer. I know that the proposals for standards and standards are something that the centres for social work have been interested in and burdened for a long time, and some internal acts will probably need to be amended. However, when I asked you about the work of social work centres and sometimes expressed concerns about their work, I thought about the purely specific area of care, for example, where the number of foster families and children the employee has to deal with is too high, according to her judgment and her experience, because it is also linked to field work and is simply impossible to work in such a way that everyone is satisfied and then possibly a negative judgment on fostering is criminal. But if some things were to be arranged differently, it could be much better. However, I am interested in just one more thing: you yourself mentioned the amended legislation, including the possibility of integration under the Law on Public-Private Partnership and the transfer of certain activities to non-governmental organisations, there is a possibility that the centre can be transferred. However, what upsets me is that the network of NGOs throughout Slovenia is not evenly developed and that probably all tasks to NGOs will not be well placed and the centres for social work will still have to remain very important centres in local environments. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I mean in particular, after the last experience of a non-governmental organization in preventing domestic violence, violence against women, these are mostly concentrated [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u234	I agree with you that different social work centres are burdened differently and that we cannot transfer their powers to NGOs, because we do not have this network covered by Slovenia. As regards the foster care you mentioned, there are basically groups, teams, that are a special group of experts, not just one social worker dealing with certain foster care. These are teams of different, including external, educational, health and social workers. As regards systematisation, we will also review the self-burden of individual centres for social work, and this will also essentially be the debate on the position of the Community's proposed social work centres in order to determine the burden of individual centres for social work or competences, which can be transferred from certain centres for social work to NGOs in accordance with the adopted resolution on the national social protection programme. We know that one of the centres will still be burdened, because the larger centres, the larger cities, have a network of NGOs developed, so we will take care of a level playing field, I would say, the centres for social work are in the process of addressing proposals for standards and standards, as I have already said, which are under consideration, are starting next week.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The next one has a word and a question of mag. Saiovic, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My question concerns the law and the use of plant protection products. The law has been in force since 16 February and has substantially facilitated access to hazardous pesticides or plant protection products. Uneducated, uneducated and uneducated users now have access to them. I just don't understand why we've made this widespread use of this logic, even though it's less dangerous and less dangerous. This is about as if some so-called less dangerous drugs were allowed by the Ministry of Health in the fight against drugs. It's an extremely graphic case when I asked someone years ago what methadone is, he said, it's about as if every day you get hit by whiskey, and now they're just going to give you a little more. I just don't agree with that logic. The law drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, on behalf of the Government, was essentially supported by all Members and Members of the Coalition in Parliament, in our party and we still strongly oppose it. As the minister responsible for the environment, I ask you: How do you plan to reduce the consumption of plant protection products in Slovenia, which are undoubtedly proven not only to have a direct adverse impact on land, human health, but also on water resources and what else? I would also like to ask you for an explanation: On the basis of what facts and professional grounds did you decide at the government's meeting and in this process of interdepartmental coordination that the Ministry of Space and Environment, in my opinion, would support this, no doubt harmful law for the environment? Liberalisation of this area, so that more poisons can be found in the environment, cannot possibly be good and cannot be useful in any way. Of course, I am also moved by the news that I hear every day. Before listening to the reports, beekeepers again warn all those who will use these plant protection products to be careful. In Slovenia, the first flowers are already opened in some areas. I was also encouraged by the article in the magazine Jana Strop at the children’s playground. In the town of Ptuj there are some 10 cases of poisoning of domestic animals, mainly dogs, cats, and also birds, mainly by means of which [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They belong to this group. What is the long-term position of the Ministry of Environment and Space on this issue? The question is posed at the appropriate time and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Member, this question you have raised is a very serious issue, both professionally and environmentally, especially in terms of the sustainable use of pesticides. I can tell you that, as Minister and the Ministry, we are aware that the use of plant protection products, especially when it comes to their non-professional use, has a proven harmful impact on the environment. We are also aware of the importance of the issue of the accessibility of individuals to plant protection products. The interpretation of the law is different as to what the new law means; some interpret it differently. However, I would like to say that, with regard to the sale of these assets in specialised shops, the conditions and criteria for determining plant protection products that can be sold without proof of the exercise of training, which is very much to say, a sensitive solution could be found to be particularly detailed in the law. This regulation is being prepared. At our ministry, we are very careful about this regulation and we have already included an expert with the knowledge of ecotoxicology in the preparation of this regulation. I would also like to say that, after the law was proposed in the Government and came to the National Assembly, we supported one of the solutions at the Ministry of Environment and Space, which then occurred in the procedure itself; that by recognising the essential plant protection products already registered in at least one Member State of the European Union and where they are environmentally comparable to Slovenia, this is a very important supplement which has come into the marriage itself and which has significantly improved it in an important element, so that we will in some way prevent the illegal use of plant protection products. From an environmental point of view, the water issue is very important. Here I would like to say that the amendment of this law still applies Article 65 of the Water Act, which makes it very clear that "fertilisation or use of plant protection products", i.e. plant protection products, "on coastal land of 15 metres from the border of the water of the first order and 5 metres from the shore of the second order is prohibited." In particular, we will try to apply this legal provision consistently through enhanced inspection, this is our environmental approach to this issue. Now the question of how to proceed. The interesting thing is that in the last Environment Council, where ministers are familiar with the so-called pesticide package prepared by the European Commission, this is a directive - first this is a thematic strategy on pesticides, then a directive establishing a framework for communities to achieve the sustainable use of pesticides and a regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market. On a proposal from the European Commission, motherhood for this area has been acquired by the European Commission's Directorate of Agriculture and has therefore gone from our segment to the agricultural departments. To your question, how to proceed. I believe that in the Republic of Slovenia we will also have to integrate certain Community measures into our legislation, if it is not already in it, to achieve sustainable use of pesticides. If I mention some, the first is the development of national action plans to determine the reduction of the risks posed by the use of pesticides. The second is very important to establish an education system for distributors as well as professional users of pesticides. Thirdly, regular inspections of pesticide application devices should be established. Fourth, prohibition of spraying for use of aircraft with possible exceptions. In the last environmental world, there have been many speeches about what these exceptions are in national legislation. And fifth: specific measures to protect the aquatic environment and to identify areas with significantly reduced intake or even zero use of pesticides to protect vulnerable groups and protect the environment, animals and natural habitats. So, my answer, if some of the segments of this thematic strategy and directive, which are not yet fully present in the Slovenian legal order in different laws, were to be incorporated into and followed by laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much. More mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I'm glad you're thinking, Mr. Minister, because I know you don't care about these things, but you've listed a bunch of measures that we'll do after the hailstone has fallen. It is too late or too late to ring the bells in Slovenia, and if we could sharpen these matters more at the beginning, then many troubles and questions could no doubt be avoided. I come from the agricultural field alone, and this issue is very close to me. I am not in favour of banning the use of starches in producers whose bread it is and who also have the knowledge to do so. But I am against the fact that the essence of this law is justified by gardeners, golfers and the like. Finally, important debates on this subject took place in the European Community, as you said. Last but not least, on 20 February, at the meeting of the Council of Europe for the Environment, after the adoption of the amendment of the Law on plant protection products, Slovenians supported the conclusions of the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides, which requires EU members to reduce the use of pesticides and improve the control of pesticide use. Slovenia has made this amendment of the law, I think, at some point, quite the opposite. I wonder: Did you take our views in Brussels seriously or was it more of a courtesy gesture and an association with the general position? I wonder: Do you know how many plant protection products Slovenians spend per year because we are already in almost fourth place among all members in some statistics? I would like to ask: How do you plan, as Minister responsible for the environment, to ensure the preparation and implementation of a specific programme for risk reduction due to pesticide use and to achieve the objectives, which is the obligation of Slovenia arising from the Sixth Environment Action Programme, which we also have published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you very much. And Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you very much for the additional question. I certainly had the mandate of the Government and also the competent committee of the National Assembly when I represented the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, and I meant quite seriously. I have no data on the consumption of plant protection products per capita and will obtain them. In part, this is in the domain of some other departments, including the Chemicals Office, and partly ours, I think, in part, the Ministry of Health. It's just a typical interdepartmental matter. However, I support your introductory thinking in the second part of the show because I see in it some thoughtful and rational approach to the use of plant protection products. It's the right way. I have been informed, I have also heard and read that climate change also puts agriculture in new situations, and this is a challenge for professionals, especially those who deal with different conditions of production and even the behaviour of certain plants and pests. This may pose a whole new challenge to all of us, and it is also important because we will shortly preside over the European Union, that we are active in the preparation of a package of three plant protection products documents, and I am sure that we will also talk about these issues in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you very much. And the last one has the word, Mr Bevk, which will raise a question to the absent Minister of Finance, and by the way, I find that I am achieving a kind of record because I am holding a meeting for four Members and one Minister and myself. Please, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Last month, as a member of the Commission's delegation for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world, I attended a visit to our emigrants in Australia. According to the Australian authorities, there are just over 20,000 of our cousins on this continent. The Slovenian encyclopedia estimates their number to 30,000. Among other things, our relatives raised the issue of an agreement to avoid double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and Australia. To date, the Republic of Slovenia has ratified 41 conventions with different countries around the world, particularly European ones. There is no agreement with Australia among them yet. This is worrying because Slovenia has concluded agreements with a large number of other countries, where there is not as large a Slovenian national community as in Australia. The existence of a legal void is most affected by the Slovenians living in Australia, as their income is much more taxed than it would have been if such an agreement existed. As an example, I can mention the unsustainable taxation of the pension of a Slovenian expatriate with an additional pension period in the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of the amount of income, in this case of pension, must pay 20% of the tax on gross amount, which is double taxation. The conclusion of a bilateral agreement on the avoidance of double taxation would also contribute to the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and to strengthening cooperation between the countries in the area of the economy in the initial stages. Untapped opportunities in the large Australian market must be an additional guide for removing barriers to fruitful cooperation. In this context, it is not worth ignoring the interest of some Australian economists in investing in the Slovenian economy or their capital investments and in carrying out investment works in Slovenia, which is supposed to be the central place for their expansion to Eastern and South-Eastern Europe. The consequences of the lack of such an agreement are thus reflected in particular in the fact that both natural and legal persons who are business or existentially oriented abroad are injured, namely outside their country of nationality. At the same time, for Slovenia, there is an additional bureaucratic obstacle to the competitiveness of the economy and the country's comprehensive development. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] A more serious approach contributes to the achievement of one of the fundamental objectives of the European Union in order to make the EU the most competitive environment in the world by 2010, as the Lisbon Strategy foresees. [[...]] I therefore ask Dr. Andre Bajuk, Minister of Finance, in absentia: How is the preparation of an agreement to avoid double taxation between the Republic of Slovenia and Australia? I expect Mr. Minister to comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] answered my question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-05-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you very much also to you and to all the others who insist. I thank all government representatives for their answers. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. It's a really nice night for all of us. Thank you.
