ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Good morning, good morning. We continue with the 31st session of the National Assembly. I am informed and am informing you that today's meeting or part-sessions cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: colleague Geza Juban, Miran Jerič from 2 p.m. on, Martin Mikolič from 2 p.m. on, Michael Prevc, Villa Rezman from 1 p.m. on, mag. Anton Rob and Ambassador Maja Shirtz. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and should therefore, according to our established practice, give the floor to a new minister who is not. A suggestion to wait for him to come? Then, of course, we will wait until the newly elected minister joins us. I suggest we suspend the meeting for its opening explanation in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Members, we continue with the earlier adjournment of the agenda. I will ask the members of the Government, Madam Minister, not to be late for meetings of the National Assembly, especially when the points and the timetable are set a few days in advance. As we say, we have 2 hours and 5 minutes for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health of Mrs Zofki Mazej Kukovic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u3	Good morning, Members and Members of Parliament! I apologize for the few minutes that have happened to me today. I would like to give you an introductory explanation of the novel Law on Health and Insurance. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing, following a reduced procedure, the amendment of the Health and Insurance Act, which sets out the information to be provided to insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary health insurance for the purpose of implementing the compensatory schemes introduced from 1.3.2006. The set defined in the amendment covers all those data on the costs of damage which insurance undertakings must have for the proper execution of the liquidation. This content is now governed by the Regulation on the type of data for the implementation of supplementary health insurance, which has been in force since January 2007. The Minister of Health issued it on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for legislation in well-known and publicly receptive complications of cell and other pharmacies with Mutual. The enforcement of this Regulation also required pharmacies from the District Court in Celje by order. In order to prepare the proposed novel, the Ministry of Health decided on the basis of additional opinions from legal experts, and in particular after consultation with the information officer. It has also tabled a constitutional initiative to repeal the provisions of the Rules of Procedure because the data to be sent are not provided by law. This is due to the collection of personal data for balancing schemes, sex, age, health services and others for which the Personal Data Protection Act provides that they must be directly established by law. The scope of the data is uniformly established in the amendment for all operators and not only for pharmacies. It is smaller than health service providers have already agreed and sent insurance companies since 1993 when supplementary health insurance was introduced for payments up to the full value of health services. In most cases, all operators, more than 1500, have already concluded with the insurance companies of the contract and have provided this data. However, there are several pharmacies, 12 according to data that objected to the conclusion of business contracts and are disputes in the courts. Data for the calculated fees for the health services provided and the medicines provided by the insured person shall be sent in electronic form. The electronic format of the record will be determined more precisely by a regulation to be issued by the Minister of Health within two months of the entry into force of the law. The proposed amendments proposed by the novel provide for the protection of the public interest of the State in the implementation of supplementary health insurance, which is an important component of the healthcare and health insurance system and is part of the social security of insured persons in the Republic of Slovenia. In order to adopt the law, we propose a reduced procedure to prevent procedural disturbances, time delays and delays in the processing of supplementary health insurance insurance cases in insurance companies and at the same time to provide data for compensatory supplementary health insurance schemes which form an integral part of the stable financing of healthcare in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u4	Thank you very much. In the framework of the parliamentary procedure, the bill was considered by the Health Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr Ljub Germić, to present the position of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 23rd regular meeting, on 14.9.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health, considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health and Health Insurance, version J, which was forwarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption, proposing that the law submitted should be examined in a simplified manner. At its 95th regular meeting on 20.4.2007, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance should be considered following a reduced procedure. In addition to the text of the draft law, the members of the Committee adopted the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the comments of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the amendments tabled by qualified applicants. The applicant did not submit an introductory explanation to the draft law and the Legislative and Legal Service examined the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 1 and 3 and to the transitional provisions. In addition to the members of the Committee, the proposer and the Legal and Legislative Service, representatives of the Chamber of Pharmacy, the Syndicate of the unemployed and socially endangered Slovenia, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the Information Commissioners of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the amendments tabled in the debate. The main part of the debate was the amendment to Article 2 of the proposal for a law setting out the amount of compensation paid by insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary insurance, health and other institutions and organisations engaged in health and private health workers involved in the public health service network. The fundamental question was whether a certain percentage corresponded to the costs incurred by health and other establishments, health-management organisations and private health workers involved in the public health service network to provide the necessary information to insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary health insurance. From the proposed 1% and 0.75% respectively, depending on the monthly amount of the damage covered by the coverage of supplementary health insurance to health and other institutions, to organisations carrying out medical activities and to private health workers involved in the public health service network, up to EUR 25 000 or above, the proposals of the Medical Chamber or the Medical Chamber, which have also submitted the corresponding calculations, differed. In their debate, the proposals were also based on the calculations provided. In order to remove all doubts about such different calculations, the Ministry of Health was invited to submit the necessary analyses and calculations that served as a basis for the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the debate, Members were united that, due to the transmission of the necessary information, the contribution rate for supplementary health insurance could not be increased. Within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft Law were tabled by the four coalition groups to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 and to the LDS Member Club for a new Article 4.a. The members of the Committee supported all the amendments tabled by the four coalition groups; the amendment of the new Group of Members was not voted on because it was not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the meeting, the Committee also adopted two amendments to the amendment, namely the amendment to the amendment to Article 2 and the amendment to the amendment to Article 3. In accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. On the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure, a proposal for a proposal is prepared at the meeting of the Committee in the light of the amendments adopted. However, all the amendments adopted are also included in the updated proposal for a law which forms an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u6	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I invite my colleague, Bojan Kontić, to make a statement on the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! The amendment proposed and the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act was already assessed at the outset of the amendment proposal as minor additions and changes to the law. This will prevent further misunderstandings between some health service providers and insurance companies, according to the proposaler's assurances. Many discussions revolved largely on the recognised amount of compensation paid by insurance undertakings. This, of course, is an important question. However, it is not possible to overlook the fact that, due to the transmission of these necessary data, the contribution rate for supplementary health insurance should not be increased. So, I repeat, it must not be increased by the transmission of this data. It is also important that the amendment, which is now being tabled for the debate in the National Assembly by the Democratic Party of Pensioners, which is going in this direction, is said to prevent irritation or even to point out the unnecessary charging of these costs already covered elsewhere. It is also important when adopting this law or amendments that insurers do not have to go from pharmacy to insurance. It is also important to apply the principle of the protection of personal and particularly sensitive data to be transmitted. The law governing the protection of personal data must be respected. In order to avoid the problems of insured persons, the proposed amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act are worth supporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u9	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! The adoption of the H novel of the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance in July 2005 defined, inter alia, the fulfilment of the public interest of the State in supplementary health insurance. Most importantly, it was certainly the introduction of a compensatory supplementary insurance scheme involving all insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary insurance in Slovenia. However, the introduction of compensatory schemes should not in any way prejudice the rights and obligations of insurers, but should only affect insurance undertakings. However, the dispute between certain players in the market for supplementary health insurance, pharmacies on the one hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, could constitute an intervention in the rights of insurers. Therefore, a change of law was necessary. Of course, we cannot go beyond the fact that the applicant could have foreseen such a complication at the time of the drafting of the law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in July 2005 and should have written down more precisely the specific data to be collected by insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary health insurance for the maintenance of accounting records on the costs of health services and for medicinal products for each insurer and for the implementation of compensatory schemes. Since this is personal data, it was clear at the time that it was necessary to write them in the law, but this has not been done, so we are now witnessing a good year-long dispute between insurance companies carrying out supplementary health insurance and some pharmacies, and in recent times this dialogue also involves a medical chamber which has even threatened to charge the mutuals with the payment of the medicinal products issued and which would affect the rights of the insured. With such bad marriage proposals, we can only hope that the Ministry, when in coordination with legal experts and the information officer, has truly provided for the fact that the data collected will not be misused. In order to give all attention to this, the written call sent in April for the preservation of the Mutual Health Insurance Company, signed by the staff of the Mutual and Association for the maintenance of the Mutual Health Insurance. The seventh paragraph of this call, which states, states: "Strengthening of employees into illegal activities, such as abuse from the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia of transferred personal data of insurers for the conduct of market activities, the planned intervention of inaccurate and harmful parties at the conclusion of insurance and operations...", that is to say, the end of the statement. Since the drafter did not think of the abuse, we would like to draw particular attention to transitional provisions at the LDS Post-Amendment Club, which will accurately prescribe the amount of penalties in case the insurance undertakings use the supplementary data for market activities and prescribe the supervisory authority. At the LDS, however, we cannot help but overcoming the fact that, for complications in the capture and transmission of data between health service providers and insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary health insurance, it is wrong to lay down a law setting out the amount of compensation for the provision of data. In fact, the Act provides for the maximum amount of compensation in the form of a percentage of the amount of hairy calculated damage, so the core of the dispute was in fact a change which, with the amendment of the coalition parties already in 2005, reduced the amount of compensation from 1.5% to 0.75% without a valid explanation. In doing so, the Government did not have any arguments for the proposed value of 1.5% in the law. That we are witnessing a re-purchase for the money of all insurers who pay supplementary health insurance premiums also shows the content of the coalition parties' amendments, which, with the support of the Government, have tabled an amendment that changes the amount of compensations and introduces two values without public intervention, namely 1%, if the monthly amount of the compensation paid for the cover of the supplementary insurance to the operator is up to EUR 25 000, and 0.75%, if it is above that amount. Thus, we are once again witnessing the intensive efforts of the various stakeholders for money paid by insurers in the form of supplementary health insurance premiums. In doing so, we are prisoners on the one hand of health service providers, on the other hand captives of insurance companies that threaten us by raising the premium. In doing so, it is unacceptable for the Government not to serve with actual calculations and to take a firm stand for its proposal. In doing so, both the Government and Members of the ruling coalition are losing credibility, as we are witnessing today that we will again decide on the amendment of a coalition parliamentary group that has previously proposed and supported a different solution with the other coalition groups. Such conduct is yet another evidence that this government does not care much about health. And since we have always acted differently in the parliamentary group, we will not support such laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u10	My friend Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u11	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u12	Thank you, too. My colleague, Jožef Horvat, will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members! In Novi Slovenija we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which allows future complications between health service providers and health insurance companies to be eliminated. We support the bill from the point of view of the protection of the health of insured persons so that, due to the uncertainty of the law, they will not be forced to pay the price differences for medicines and services. We support it in terms of protection of public interest protection, which provides adequate social security for insured persons on the basis of supplementary insurance. A high level of safety of personal data is ensured, as well as a strictly prescribed security of data transmission between health service providers and insurance undertakings carrying out supplementary health insurance. By law, contractors will have to provide regular data to insurance undertakings on the basis of the previous introduction of compensatory schemes, which, unlike the original law in the new proposal, are precisely specified and defined in terms of their scope. The specific data to be collected by insurance companies for the management of accounting services on the costs of health services and medicines will, according to the new ones, be known in advance. As procedural barriers will be removed and the timing of the processing of supplementary health insurance cases in insurance companies will be reduced, less tension between health service providers and insurance companies can be expected, resulting in higher safety and better insurance. In New Slovenia, we welcome changes to the law mainly because the law will allow for a new level playing field for the implementation of supplementary insurance for all insurance companies and allow more stringent and effective control over the use of funds in healthcare providers. In the long term, these measures will certainly obtain an insurer or user of health services. We are confident that under the new regime, patients will not be discriminated against by or selected on the basis of their health status, age and gender. This ensures a mandatory and precise definition of the scope of personal data to be transmitted by health service providers to insurance undertakings. The most important thing for us in New Slovenia is that insurance companies will not be burdened with administrative tasks in the exercise of their health insurance rights following the new bill, and that insured persons will not, for example, have unnecessary routes from pharmacies to the insurance company or to the insurance company in general to compensate for the costs incurred. Among other things, we do not agree with the findings of certain institutions that health service providers receive a low percentage of the fees to send data regularly to insurance companies and that they will have to cover the loss on their own in the difference between the actual costs and the funds they will receive for this purpose. In particular, it is sad that today we are faced with the fact that some public institutions, whose basic mission is primarily concern for public good, are making huge profits. In New Slovenia we are determined that it is absolutely necessary to end this, and we will not allow the costs of transmission of the data that operators are obliged to provide to the insurance undertaking to be borne into the burden of the insurers. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the amendment of the Republic of Slovenia law achieves better supervision of health service providers and insurance providers carrying out supplementary insurance, and by increasing transparency and eliminating legal uncertainties ensures a stable and reciprocal and inter-generational equitable functioning of the supplementary health insurance system. We will support the bill in the New Slovenia Group, as it also places a greater burden on insured persons who will not be burdened in the future with unnecessary red tape, for which they are essentially in charge and for which they are paid services within health services and insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor to inform us of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u15	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It's nice to have you all here. The proposed amendment to this Law on Health and Health Care is essentially complementary or more specific to the material provisions of the law governing voluntary supplementary health insurance, which in practice led to misunderstandings and, in particular, different interpretations between health service providers and health insurance companies, which clearly led to a tendency to increase the insurance premiums of supplementary health insurance due, at least for us in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, to unduly charge the necessary data, which is now clearly stated or listed by this amendment. On the basis of Article 79.b, as amended by the law, the dispute between a mutual health insurance company and a pharmacy will finally be overcome. However, in order to be operational as soon as possible after the date of entry into force, this amendment depends to a large extent on the regulation issued by the Minister responsible for health and determining the format of the electronic data record which the amendment lists on the new fee. Although the Novela bears the date two months after its entry into force, in which time the Minister is obliged to do so, nothing would be wrong with the good of the law that it is as soon as possible. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the draft law in its version, as presented by the nature of the complementary bill, as a good proposal. If we also want to effectively enforce supplementary health insurance as a public interest, then the whole insurance system must work as flawlessly as possible, especially for the benefit of the insured. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u16	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be submitted by Member Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have also accompanied the euro with the promise of our citizens and citizens that the cost of living will not increase. If we are to vote on this supplement, also approved by the Health Committee on Friday, the contributions from 0.75 to 1% will have to be increased. We know that. Complementary health insurance companies were not invited to the meeting. That's a fact. Nobody wanted to talk about it today. This is also why they intend to protest at the Slovenian Insurance Association. They also protested with the Minister. Insurance companies consider that only to properly bill insurance companies do they require higher fees, insurance companies need more money. That makes sense. Isn't it? As a result, this burden will be passed on to the users of these services as soon as possible. You promise otherwise. The second article is the subject of an amendment; the second article in the Constitution is also an article that says that we are a social state, but we are not. We have 12% of poverty. There is an old 2004 data on the web site, and we do not hope to fix it. The Minister of Labour says that 42% of these poor people would be without social transfers. That's her information. We're talking about big economic growth. We have artificially reduced unemployment by simply deleting inactive, inactive job seekers. If you don't answer the phone one time, you're not on the list anymore. There are no invalids on the list. There are no half-time employees either. And again, we have a success story. Of the 100,000 unemployed, we have 70,000 unemployed registered in the register. Artificially reduced number. Today, we are talking about this irritation, and you all claim that it will not be tantamount to anything or to anything that will cost the individual’s wallet. We say otherwise in the Slovenian National Party. We are of the opinion that this burden will be passed on to users as soon as possible. And to that promise you made today, to that promise you made at the time of the introduction of the euro, and to a number of other promises you will forget. As if nothing had happened, the cost of living was increasing. Today we see that only merchants can make profits, even insurance companies have profits, I don't know any insurance companies that would fail. That's right. However, in the final sequence, all this is made possible by citizens and citizens, this enormous wealth. The poor are even poorer, the richer they are. I have personally addressed to the President of the Government the request that we devote one to this National Assembly. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I also addressed this initiative to the President of the National Assembly. [[...]] The Vice-President of the National Assembly even demanded it, and it went away. We're sealing our eyes. We're talking about success stories, but there's always new impressions ahead of us. This one's one of these, too. But the fact is, the four-member family barely survives with 970 euros. It's a statistic. But we have families who only receive 400 and a few euros a month. Of course, you don't understand it, the ministers don't understand it, the managers don't understand it, the rich don't understand it, but the poor have to live with it. These are the facts. And with this addition to this law, you will increase or contribute sooner or later to the fact that life in normal families, which are now socially threatened, is said to be more difficult, as stated by the Minister, 42% of those in Slovenia. We did not, of course, support this in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u18	Thank you, too. Mag. Vasja Klavora will give the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u19	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In our parliamentary group, we assess the proposed amendments and amendments to the law as necessary, as certain provisions regulate some controversial and inadequate legal provisions, which were the main culprit for recent complications in the field of supplementary insurance and which also require a more appropriate solution on the grounds of the principle of protection of the interests of insurers. In the Group of Members, we believe that, due to the consistency of the implementation and implementation of the basic principles of health care and the application of legislation, in accordance with other rules directly related to business between insurance undertakings and operators with regard to the implementation of supplementary health insurance, the requirement for a more precise definition of the dataset and the way in which they are communicated between users is justified, since the proposed solution, following our assessment, constitutes a sufficient and binding legal basis for the regulation of mutual obligations between operators and insurance undertakings. A clearer definition of data and a more precise definition of the concept of operators will also allow for effective monitoring of accounts, transparency and up-to-date insurance, which are also essential points for legitimate business and thus for ensuring public interest. However, in addition to the data set and the way in which they were transmitted, the level of the processing or transmission fees has also been shown. Indeed, negotiations on the level of compensation have been ongoing since the introduction of supplementary health insurance and have fallen from initial, excessively high, 6% to the compromise accepted and currently valid. The difference is by more than 5%, so the reserve existed, which means nothing more than the profit of pharmacies or performers. The Act's complementary proposal foresees an increase in data provision fees, which may mean an increase in premiums. As a result of this fear, we have prepared an amendment in the parliamentary group on the basis of thorough reflections following the subsequent receipt of additional materials to maintain the uniform level and level of compensation. While we are adopting in the Group all solutions that contribute to improving the standards of the healthcare system, we cannot support such solutions that would further increase the costs of health services and favour the exclusive interests of one party to the expense or additional burden of insurers, thereby violating the principle of their protection. With regard to the data relating to the calculation of which rates and what percentage of the amount of hairdressed damage correspond to the cost of providing data to insurance companies, it has been shown that there are doubts as to the deviations between them. In addition, almost a year ago, an expert commission was appointed by the Ministry of Health to prepare a new model for the evaluation of service providers in relation to the scope of work in the field of data processing, but it has not yet completed its work. For this reason, in addition to the reasons already mentioned, we propose that the arrangements for commissions so far should not be maintained as is the case, since the actual estimates of the actual costs in the adjusted presentation of the situation of both parties concerned cannot be expected, and the fact is that only insurers can be affected. Since we believe in the Group that the proposed amendments and additions to the law will enable or fulfil the requirements for better protection and protection of insured persons and their personal data, the need for better control over the use of resources in healthcare providers paid by insurers for supplementary health insurance will be sufficient, allowing greater transparency of this insurance and, finally, the removal of the uncertainties so far makes sense also because of the possibility of entry of foreign insurance companies into the market of our supplementary health insurance, we will give support to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u20	Thank you, too. The position of the national community will be given by Ambassador Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! We have studied the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. The draft law further regulates and further regulates mechanisms to achieve greater security of personal data of insured persons, supplementary insurance and to prevent the negative selection of these persons in insurance undertakings on the basis of their health status. Thus, the mandatory scope of personal and sensitive data to be transmitted to insurance undertakings by health service providers in relation to the service provided is specified and insurance undertakings must use the data obtained solely for the purpose of carrying out the supplementary insurance. We'll support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u22	Thank you very much. However, colleague Ivan Grill will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u23	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues and fellow Members. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act is proposed following a reduced procedure. It is true that this law or this proposal is relatively short, but it does specify the criteria which, after adoption of this law, will benefit our patients and will prevent the abuse of their position by some health service providers. If we refresh our memory, we can find out that in 2005 the Ministry of Health prepared a law that introduced the health insurance of the so-called compensation scheme. After the adoption of this law, we have obtained adequate financial stability and intergenerational solidarity in the field of health insurance. By means of compensatory schemes, we have ensured that between insurance companies the different costs incurred in the implementation of health services, which were mainly dependent on the age factor and the sex of the insured person. This is proof that this Government is constantly working in the field of health care to benefit our users of health services. And that's not what we heard in the report of the LDS House of Ambassadors that the government doesn't want it and doesn't want it. It's re-examined evidence that this isn't the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u24	Comrade Grill, you know the rules. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u25	for smooth and efficient use [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u26	Time is limited in connection with the presentation of the views of the groups. Please, if you'll hold on to this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u27	For the smooth and effective implementation of this law, healthcare providers must collect and send to insurance companies the necessary information on the insurance and methods and means to carry out the treatment, since it is only in this way that it is possible to provide conditions that benefit our patients. The implementation of this law has been relatively successful, with the exception of a few individual health service providers, specifically pharmacies that have not sent the necessary data knowingly. This created unnecessary disputes with the Mutual Health Insurance Company, and there was a risk that patients would be particularly affected by this, since they should pay medicines in pharmacies and then demand the insurance company's money back. The reason for such behavior is that some pharmacies cannot be explained in any other way than that they were obviously politically motivated and consciously instigated. The only solution that could put these unnecessary complications in place was the adoption of a supplementary legal act which would oblige all health service providers to collect and send the necessary and further specific data. The first act was drafted by the Ministry. This was the Regulation on the type of data for the implementation of supplementary health insurance. However, since this is sensitive personal data, the Ministry of Health has further prepared an amendment to the law that we are considering today. However, this law very precisely specifies which and how health service providers must send appropriate information to insurance undertakings. In particular, this law provides that all data transmitted electronically must also be adequately protected, which will further ensure the protection of personal data against potential abuse. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are confident that this amendment of the law will further contribute to better and more effective delivery of health services, which will be of particular benefit to our patients, so we will also support such a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of 25.9. As it is said, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. I ask you to report all those who wish to discuss this amendment. Here you go. Thank you very much. The first is Ambassador Ljubo Germič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I'm the first to discuss this amendment, and I'm going to take some time to hear from others. I would like to draw attention to the following fact at this amendment. The law has been tabled by the Government and the law in the Government's proposal for a text does not touch on the changes to the law in this part, which we will talk about in this amendment. This seems very important to me at the beginning. The amendment to this Article, since the article was opened, has, of course, allowed the coalition to submit an amendment to the Committee, which has changed the text of this Article in a work which the Government does not modify. The question is why this has happened and why we have now again at the table of an amendment by a coalition parliamentary group that has originally signed another proposal. This is now a question I'm asking myself as a user. As Chairman of the Committee, I also asked the Minister, by that letter, to provide us with calculations on the basis of which the reasons for the amendment of the four coalition parliamentary groups for the Committee was also stated. It is also said that the calculations were prepared by the Ministry and that the amendment is prepared on the basis of calculations in specific cases of operation of certain health service providers. And today, we have heard from one parliamentary group that the percentage ranges were very wide, 5, 6, and that this was gradually decreasing, i.e. percentages for data transmission fees. So we came up with a government proposal in 2005 at 1.5%, and then we came up with an amendment of 0.75%. What convinces me as a payer of the supplementary health insurance premium? I am convinced of this only by the way in which profits are shared on the basis of an over-charged premium, on the basis of all insurers who pay supplementary health insurance. There's no other logic. The Medical Chamber has its own calculation, the Pharmacy Chamber justifies its calculations and requires a higher percentage. On the third page, we have the Slovenian Insurance Association, which offers us again its calculations and, in fact, the text written by the DeSUS Group in this amendment, which retains 0.75, that is, the old text, in fact, the 2005 text, and complements with an explanation of the letter from the Slovenian Insurance Association. When we read the explanation for the amendment and this letter, which we received in the National Assembly only on 19.9., I would like to point out when the deadline for amendments for the hearing at the National Assembly has expired. There was no such letter to the Committee before, so this should also be said because of the correctness of the hearing. There was no such letter to the Committee and it was not possible to deal with it on the parent’s working body. What am I worried about here? So the government doesn't serve with information that would then defend it with credibility. In my opinion, it is only about who we Members will give more sympathy to, who will collect one part of the profits. In my opinion, the Ministry should say that the premium for supplementary health insurance is even too high. If we can talk about 0.75%, 1%, and the limit is EUR 25 000, but we don't know how many health care providers or doctors who use this practice or the pharmacy falls below or above this limit, and we don't know what that means in the profits for the Mutual, which could have given us an advertisement every day in advertising, how we need to ensure that the Mutual is converted into a share society, then, of course, as a user, I ask myself who has someone here as a lunatic. And that's the point of my debate today. Comrade Grill, of course, I cannot agree that you tell me that in the position of the Group of Members, which I represented, you express in the Government and in the coalition a great interest for the insured. Yeah, how? Then why are you proposing an amendment that represents a new scale for sharing this? You say you have calculations. When I ask you after the calculations, there are no calculations. The question is, which side are we going to take today? Are we on the side of operators, pharmacies and doctors, or will we take the side of insurance companies? It would be fair to stand up for those who pay for supplementary health insurance. That would be the only honest logic. To enable the correct coverage and proper transmission and processing of data both to health service providers and to insurance companies on the one hand. This would be the right solution and this proposal should therefore be forwarded to the Government. It therefore surprises me that the Government has agreed to some compromise between the coalition groups and has supported this solution, which today creates a new debate horizon. I also have the 2005 vote, when we discussed the same subject, the coalition supported 0.75, and there were other amendments on the table, up to 0%. And after 2005, there are no correct calculations on the table by 2007, which could thus satisfy those involved in data capture and processing, on the other hand, us paying this premium. And here is this dilemma that we are once again facing today, Members, which we will be deciding without any specific figures on which proposal we should decide. However, of course, we are running away from the fact that the coalition is not united in this. The coalition is not united and supports a consistent one proposal at one time and then some of the coalition proposals step out and support another proposal. Therefore, it would be very good for the Government to explain or the Ministry to explain why there are no submitted calculations, for which it was stated at the examination of the home labour body that they exist and that there were arguments that it supported a different proposal in the text of the law, which is not being amended in the proposal itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u30	Thank you very much. But to my word, I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u31	Thank you again very much for your word. Personally, I believe that both the Government and most coalition Members want to be on the side of healthcare users all the time. And our principle and also our expectations are that in no case should the commission itself or the rate be increased, for there are no reasons for this. Here we do not want to determine whether we will support a proposal that will go to the benefit of healthcare providers or will go to the benefit of insurance companies. Now we just want to find out as much as possible and also to write down in the law what is the cost of collecting this data. Today, we can hear that we do not have any concrete calculations as to the cost of collecting such data. I am sure that some precise analysis of these costs is almost impossible to obtain, because each health service provider has its own system of both computer, "software" equipment and methodology for collecting these data. Here are the large differences in costs arising from this. For me, it is more important to have a starting point for which we can largely define ourselves when before the adoption of the law in 2005 this percentage was between 3% and 6%. This percentage was not determined by law. This percentage was created with some agreement between health service providers and insurance companies. I am sure that this percentage has been reached with some consensus and actually covered those costs that have also arisen. However, when we reduced this percentage by law, it means that the difference was virtually now left to insurance companies to the detriment of health service providers. I agree that one large system, which has systematisation as well as a way of significantly more software or computer information support, can lower these percentages. To a smaller health care provider, let it be a concessionaire, let it be a small pharmacy, and certainly the percentage we have in the text of the law so far may be different. As I have already mentioned, we do not in any way support and do not want to support a solution that could contribute to an increase in the rate of contribution, but there is no reason for that either. However, we must not allow ourselves or allow smaller data collectors to send them in the appropriate form to insurance companies, but then, in fact, with a smaller amount of work, they can also process this data, but operators, of course, do not have any compensation in the form of cost coverage. Here we cannot say that there are interests of making profits, here there must not be any profit created on the basis of this, but only covering those costs. I am sure that with the renewal of the information system, as well as the so-called health card, we know that there is now a concrete reform under preparation by the Health Insurance Office, this area can also be systematically regulated to the extent that each healthcare provider will have virtually all the necessary information that he/she will then send to the insurance companies and will not have any additional work to do in the selection. In this case, I am the first to support the proposal if this rate is to be reduced to nothing if there are some strong arguments for this. In this case, however, which we have today at our disposal, I believe that it would be useful to listen to the smallest health care providers, who, at the same time, have very high costs, do not have an adequate compensation. It would also be worth mentioning, however, that when health care providers wanted the amendment to be introduced into the law, you have also received numerous visits and arguments and many of you have expressed support for this, but now, in fact, your support is nothing, but you are trying to carry out the demagogies and raise unnecessary climate or mislead the public in order to increase the rates of contribution. That's not true, that's not necessary, and that's certainly not going to happen. This will only make it possible to justify more correctly the costs incurred primarily by smaller users. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u32	Thank you, too. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Whether it's 1% or 0.75%, whether it's the right measure or not, we're actually talking about this, but we don't have any real information about why. I think that this debate is very important for Slovenia, not only because of the health insurance law, but because of the principles applied in Slovenian society. There is an increasing number of these areas where monopolies are being established, where they are regulated in a state-owned way. And that's the problem. In areas where they could be regulated by the market, the State is inadvertently infringing on them and setting out the recognised costs. More and more, and then we wonder why we find these services, telephone operators, and so on. Because every day we have more and more monopolies cutting their own throats. Either on account of a monopoly created under the law to give a particular primate to an operator or cartel arrangements arise. And then we listen to the debates on TV, in the media, who's to blame, and we're going to analyze. We have a shortage of regulators, i.e. regulators, who would interfere with these monopolistic behaviours and then make for citizens a pleasant functioning and proper functioning. Not some company and organisations and institutions in the name of national interest, which then flourish at the expense of high costs and at the expense of the anger and empty pockets of citizens. This is actually a message for all of this. We are therefore placed in a situation: whether we will decide more for the benefit of insurance companies or more for the benefit of operators. Either way, we're going to hurt someone, or we're going to work for someone, at least that's how they're going to recognize us, for someone in their pocket. Because we don't have the right data. Therefore, this principle of regulation is not appropriate. It is not appropriate and, therefore, neither are we in the right place, nor can we accept such a responsibility and determine such things without proper calculations, or it makes no sense for us to appear in this role. This role of the National Assembly is not appropriate. This area can therefore be regulated by the market. But the law is so established. Even when we were setting up marriages, we should ask ourselves whether it is proper for the National Assembly to intervene in these relations. More and more of these monopolies. It would be wise to take this seriously. Where the market works better, better provides a service, cheaper, more friendly to citizens, we introduce market regulation there. And only where the market is really about interest, where the market is not an appropriate regulator, is not an appropriate mechanism; it is where public institution and state regulation are established. That's all it is. With regard to this amendment, we can't help but deny it. It is also pointless to argue that this would be a solution if we called the pharmacy again or called health insurance companies or contractors again. Nothing would have changed. If we have them there for ten hours at the round table, and we're discussing them, nothing changes the facts. We're not gonna be fairer than that. But maybe we'll be likable, or we won't. But why would we work for a seeming likeness? Let us work for the real thing, for the welfare and well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u34	Thank you very much. However, I invite Ambassador Franz Žnidaršič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Mr Germič may rightly wonder why the Group has changed its mind on the signing of the amendments or on the final solution. His concern is unnecessary. We properly agreed amendments to the Committee and signed them and were accepted. Then the insurance companies came to us and told us the following: We just want to inform you that the increased fees that we will pay to the operators will be placed in the premium of health insurance and nothing else. And since we do not know who now has a greater profit from this title, we have been thinking: if it jumps by 0.25 this percentage, they will lose nothing on a better operator and the insurance company will put it in the price of the premium. However, they will lose the insured, not guilty or owed in this story, and their life in this part will increase, just as the cost of living in the field of nutrition increases, etc. And from this point of view, and from the fact that this signal came from the watersheds at the last moment when an amendment could still be tabled, we were not able to reconcile it in the coalition to be signed by all. We have invested it in order not to miss the deadline, and we hope that it will be supported because we think 0.25% does not mean any tragic consequences for operators, but at the same time stops the possibility of increasing the premium, although there should be no significant high premium there, but every cent is today more inflation and incentives for insurers. At the same time, in the next period, however, it may be possible to make more precise calculations on what this actually means and in practice. I believe that this may mainly affect small operators, as Mr Grill has warned. Yes, of course, if someone has a small company, logistics is more expensive, but these performers have to be aware of it when they go into it. I know a doctor who was aware of the increased logistic costs when he went into private practice, but he put it in the way of charging wages and contributions, he reduced it by half and covered it all, of course again at the expense of someone else. So it's going to be less in the tax box, in the ZPIZ and in the health register, and this is how it got rid of it. Now, pharmacies can't do that, health homes can't do that, and private and those smaller individuals should think twice about what they're going to do when they have to get paid from the same fund-raising system for their work, for their business and for their costs arising from these accounts. That's how I understand these consequences. In principle, we are not against this matter being properly settled, so that the wolf will be full and the goat whole, but we know that life is more expensive every day, that the insurance is higher every day and that on the other hand the insurers for this same money, for this higher money, for the higher cost they get every day less, for the longer term and of course in the problematic situation. From this point of view, we have proposed this amendment in the hope that it will be adopted in order to ensure that this interest of the insurers [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] protect and resolve this matter more precisely and precisely in the next period. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Then I'm opening a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. We have four debaters recommitted and a new round is opened by colleague Ljubo Germić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u37	Thank you for your word. It is true, as chairman of the Committee, that I have adopted various presentations that I have wanted to speak to me on this subject and that they have just presented their calculations, but of course on the Committee we have asked the proposer - from the Government and, on the other hand, from the coalition Members - to obtain information on which proposal we should support. In fact, there has been a number of data on the table and my decision today goes in only one direction: to satisfy and properly resolve the issue that has been raised since 2005 by operators by introducing compensatory schemes to provide data so that we do not make business worse for them. That's the first fact. And secondly, that insurance companies properly account for these costs to healthcare providers and that we know exactly how much this costs, and that the law, given that this is written down in the law, properly accounted for. And I think the legislator should have this approach. I wonder if the insurance companies were coming, if the government didn't know about their calculations. This is now this dilemma and we cannot get these calculations even after mediation to see them. Here's this dilemma that was created, of course. And can we simply agree to say yes, a different change automatically means an increase in the premium. Can we make this decision so easily? I do not think so, because then the arguments that the coalition has advocated with the amendment that this article amends in this context, because the government has not proposed this change, but has not objected to it when the coalition proposed an amendment. That is why I cannot agree with the fact that you are reading our demagogies when we are opening this question. We all say that we are not in favour of raising the premium, but we are in favour of having a proper, proper, quality health care service; that when we come to the pharmacy, we get what we need and do not have the straight sword of Damocles above us, and that someone will charge higher costs for it. And we want to settle this in the law for the satisfaction of everyone, not to say that someone is to blame if a change in a marriage is to take place. It just seems to me that this is an unfair approach, that there is a bad solution, but you find yourself, as you know, and you know. Here's my dilemma, why decide one and why decide the other. And the question is whether the coalition in such great concern for the insurers will support the DeSUS amendment if it has proposed its amendment. For the representatives of DeSUS tell us that if such a legal decision is taken, that is to say that this law, as is now proposed, will be adopted to mean an increase in the insurance premium. Can we accept such a simple explanation here today and is it justified? I don't think so. And here we expect the Government to answer this question clearly and loudly, on the basis of which calculations, on which data has been supported by the amendment of the coalition and can vehemently ensure that we do not serve, but ensure the proper work of the health service providers and, on the other hand, of the insurance company. That's what this is about. And the government is proposing these things, the government supports these things, and we really expect to get a concrete answer here today, so that this will indeed be a decision for all parties who are properly recorded in this law in the context of supplementary health insurance, which is established as a public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Andre Bručan, allow me, Madam Minister, to participate in the debate, in particular in the form of answers to the dilemmas raised, questions raised, to suggest this by raising your hands and you will be given the floor. You can contact me during the time you have logged in. As a proposaler, you've reported for 10 minutes. You can sign up in the middle, but you can end up with your decision. Member Andrey Bručan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u39	Good-bye! Mr Vice President, Madam Minister! Of course, there is a lot of kindness in the current performances, but in the implementation of this kindness, there is a strong demagogic tendency: for example, this government is not healthy, this coalition is not healthy, then the law that we have adopted in relation to compensatory schemes is bad, and another such demogostic, it is not for us to be poorly placed or low-income ones to somehow save them from a difficult situation. All three of these things are proveable demagogues. The law adopted in relation to compensatory schemes was unanimously supported by this law. I hope that you did not adopt a bad marriage consciously at the time, but it later turned out to be impossible to fully anticipate these problems that were happening. One of these problems was the sharp adjustment of the minimum percentage of pharmacies in the Celje area and north of Celje, in Ptuj. All of Slovenia, everyone else has sent this information under these conditions. It was clearly political action, insinuating quite a few problems. At that time, the Ministry of Security issued a regulation and later even tried to issue a regulation to remedy the situation as quickly as possible, and it turned out that it was legal to regulate it better with the law that we are adopting here today. I can say that these allegations are of different kinds of problems that do not go into the law itself and are actually demagogos. Also prepared Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, point L denies your claim, because by this proposed law we want to provide for the less paid, the less placed, the low-income payment of supplementary health insurance in any way. So, for human health, it's like a coalition and this government, even for those who are poorly placed and I'm saving them from a certain situation. It is true, however, that the health insurance system in Slovenia is the same as it is, because of the past since 1999 and that it is shouting for some changes in the future. Of course, this change in the percentage of the cost of issuing this data does not mean, in either direction, a large amount. However, it means in any way that what is now being proposed, with 0.75% or these two groups, these two categories to correct the injustice to those smaller operators with the previous percentage, 0.75%. And you all know exactly how that came about. Accurate calculations are virtually impossible to prepare, very difficult to prepare, and evidence of this is also that the Medical Chamber and the Pharmacy Chamber have a completely different calculation. If this were so simple, these experts, who hired and paid them, could make roughly the same calculations without giving them, have provided substantial, substantially different calculations. And this is just one of the proofs that this is difficult, as has been said today, that it is also very difficult to present some clear and accurate measures as to how much the right measure is. In the negotiations for the adoption of the previous law, it was clear that we had to agree here on an amount, a sum that was acceptable to all. And you know how that came about. I therefore propose that when we discuss this supplement to return, you take this into account and that you know that this saves one part of those who have so far been harmed in paying for the services they have provided. I would like to point out once again, it was an isolated resistance to the law, as it had been before, to a group that did not want us to coalition or to the government, and even less to the patients, they wanted to settle it as badly as possible. Just imagine what would have happened if all of these insurance companies had to go from the pharmacy to the insurance company for a refund! Just imagine what they were trying to accomplish with this, and the matter will be perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u40	Thank you very much. But to my word, I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u41	Thanks again for saying that. I am surprised that the representatives of the insurance companies have visited the DeSUS Group and have practically given them the threat that, should such an amendment be adopted on the Committee, they will continue to go to a higher commission. This is actually a threat and unjustified pressure that has no basis for such a position. Let us again come from the percentage that was before the entry into force of the 2005 Act when individual operators were paid a commission of 3 to 6%. With the new law, this case has been reduced by five times, ten times. It means that during this time, practically the insurance company made profits at the expense of others, which, as we can see, they also spend unjustifiably through advertising and other forms. Why would we maintain such a solution now if we knew that those smaller operators, with such a percentage, were virtually deprived and costed? The solution contained in this amendment covers only a few of the smallest ones that were actually the least deprived of it. I must say that I am still saying that a calculation that could clearly determine what the most optimal rate would be is impossible to do. I, or the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, have received numerous visits, both by concessionaries, from pharmacies, where they have presented to us in their own way their costs related to the preparation and transmission of these data. I must say that everyone has in a credible way really justified the costs they have, but the differences are mainly due to the absence of a systematic approach to this. Each individual has settled his own solution in the past, and as long as there is no systemic approach, or that this will be systematically regulated, there will be differences. And when I mentioned in the previous speech - I am sure that when this matter is informed to the level that there will be no additional parts of the data collection here, this percentage of the commission can be nothing or nothing more. In the past, this has been regulated in some way by the market, but now that we have defined some degree in the law in 2005, there has been some anomaly in this area where some are disadvantaged and some are at the [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] profit or profit may generate profits from it. [[...]] I've got insurance on my mind here in the first place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u42	Thank you very much. And I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Lucky Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's simply amazing that some still believe that in the final stage this increase in the premium will not be passed on to users. I simply cannot believe that you are still saying something that is not true and that is also by the positioning party - reality. The insurance companies will ask users of this 0.25% later than before. And why don't I believe this story? Complementary health insurance companies were not invited at all at the meeting. Do you know what you've done? I have to pay at some inn for a good lunch you ate - of course no one will agree to it. Insurance companies will accept this fact, because this will be accepted by the Government, this is a government proposal, and this cost will simply be charged to the user. And when you talk about demagogism, the well-respected former minister, if they were good, would continue to be a minister, the waiting species will not be any smaller. You know, health care is in a catastrophic state, and the new minister said on "hearing" that, apart from where the building is, she doesn't know anything about health issues. Those are her words. I believe today, too, is not such a big time difference, it doesn't know anything anymore. And when we talk about how the government can boast that we have excellent economic growth, that we have an ideal situation in the country, and at the same time we do not want to talk about poverty, which is large, according to Minister 42%, you also control the media, you forbid writing about it. The data on the Internet is old, from 2004. You are telling a new lie that this cost will not increase to the household or to the user. I don't know who's gonna cover it. Who, I don't know. Who's it gonna be? Insurance? I agree that insurance companies have enormous profits, but it is the Government that gives essentially the possibility that insurance companies exist that they are present with some permits that enable them to establish an act. Look, we're selling state silver and we're increasing economic growth. We have sold the General Sailing, we will sell Luka Koper, we will sell Slovenian railways, we will boast again that we have good economic growth, poverty is growing. You don't want to get profits from the workers who made profits in companies either. This would also improve the social situation in families, and this might not be as much a question as - 0.25%. No, the profits are untouchable! Why? Because they own these big companies, which are essentially in good taste and affection, friends, former politicians, including your friends. And that's simply untouchable. I'm actually scared because you don't really want to see someone who can't live who doesn't have the right to be sick. He has no right to be sick! Today, out there you can see more and more people begging. The government simply adopted an act prohibiting begging in Slovenia. And you're saying again that in fact the health situation will be better if we introduce this 0.25%, and that no one will have to pay anything. It's simple, it's demagogy. That's a lie. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that tomorrow, tomorrow, when this cost is recorded and will be known to those who actually have €400,500 to survive, that you will take this responsibility, because health is as it is, and as it is said, that the waiting line will not be smaller and the new buildings you have built will not be equipped because of this 0.25%. They're still unequipped, and that's why no one's answering. What we're doing is, to put it mildly, selling fog. I believe you will accept this addition to the law. DeSUS sees the party criticising on the one hand, and on the other hand declares that it will support it, which is kind of nonsense, but fine if so. But it is right that people know that some are playing with their destiny, even with as little percentages as this one is here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Is there still interest among Members in the re-circle? I can see that, so I'm asking you to reapply. Here you go. I invite Ambassador Andre Bručan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. I only have 22 seconds. I can tell you that the waiting lines have been greatly reduced, Mr. Friend, if you don't know this, read the usual newspaper. However, this compensation scheme law has led to no increase in premiums over the last two years from supplementary health insurance and that insurance companies will only be able to increase premiums after the approval of the Insurance Supervisory Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u46	I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Ljubo Germić. Here you go. Excuse me, are you applying to the replica, Comrade Friend? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u47	Dear Mr. Bručan! The waiting lines should get you out of here. You have reduced the waiting types by simply not ordering patients. That's your success story. And thank you so much for covering this up. Thank you for challenging me so that I can say this to the Slovenian public waiting for this answer. It's a shame your patients are dying on your doorstep.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u49	Thank you very much. First of all, my fellow Member, Mr Bručan. You've proposed the law we're talking about today. You have not changed the text of this law in the article we are talking about today with an amendment. I'm surprised that today you're supporting an amendment that changes the law that you signed. This solution could be introduced in the law itself so that we do not talk about the amendment today. Another time. We will decide this law today. The law, according to the mood and according to the debate, will receive support. What's tomorrow? Will this law solve what is the problem: dissatisfaction of performers on the one hand? Because, their calculations, I am sure, Mr. Former Minister, Mr. Bručan and the new Minister Mrs. Kukovičeva, that you know these calculations! These calculations speak of a significantly higher percentage than that proposed in the amendment. Do we know the calculations and requirements offered by the insurance association? I would like to know whether by adopting this law we will solve the problem that is present in Slovenian society today, that those who have to provide the data will receive the correct compensation for this and that those who have to pay for it will pay the appropriate amount and that this will not be transferred in such or otherwise to us again, the insurers. This is a fundamental question. And now the coalition "pingpongiates" us with a ball on one side and the other with different suggestions. They say that calculations are impossible, but at the same time the amendment is said to have proposed an amendment based on calculations. Who's the one here who doesn't understand some things? You're saying that calculations are, but at the same time you're saying that calculations can't be done because they're difficult. At the same time, on the basis of calculations, we are modifying the text of laws where we will regulate the area in order to ensure the proper implementation of the law, which no one can guarantee today. And here is the dilemma in which we, honourable fellow Members, are Members when we press the buttons. Can you assure me, Madam Minister, that tomorrow will not be a problem on the basis of a decision for one or another option? For on the one hand the coalition or part of the coalition speaks of the need to understand smaller operators, and these actually come in calculations that the compensations are too low. One part of the coalition tells us that insurance companies will be compensated if the premium rises; hence, if the compensation rises, the premium will be raised for insurance companies. Can you tell us what solution we need to support in order not to witness tomorrow's extortion or the burden of an unregulated area, a system-wide area, because today we have the opportunity to systematically arrange this so that tomorrow's insurance will not be in the situation? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] when, on the one hand, he is in distress on the basis of the poor will of the operators and on the other hand, the ill will of the insurance companies? [[...]] If you can answer that, then the decisions of our Members will be significantly easier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u50	Thank you very much. As I can see, we still have a desire to discuss it. I'm reopening procedure, please. So the word is given by Member Milan M. Squeakl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, Members and Members. I did not intend to discuss this law myself, but we are practically before the conclusion of the debate, but the government still has all 10 minutes of available time. That's why I stopped by with a very simple intention. I would like to ask that the representatives of the Government, in accordance with the decision or recommendation of the parent working body, where the Ministry of Health 14.9 called for the submission of the necessary analyses and calculations, which served as the basis for the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, to be done here or that the government representatives tell what is in the matter. In fact, only on this basis will we be able to have adequate information on this and also the basis for believing that if we choose one or the other option, the contribution rate will not increase. And to quote this report again, in the debate they were Members, it is said that both the coalition and the opposition, are united so that, due to the transmission of the necessary data, the contribution rate for supplementary health insurance cannot be increased. The story of supplementary health insurance usually begins to get complicated when someone in the term "public service" has to be met, a part of the public service, such as the transmission of data, such as the payment of taxes and other things. That is why the discussion that was here requires an executive response. However, if that is not the case, I suggest we stop the point and, once we have the answer, we will continue the debate. But to have 10 minutes unused by the Government and not to hear the answers and then everyone here spends time discussing everything, except what is the subject of this amendment. I would not then like to hear that the Members have chosen such a decision and therefore the rate of contribution has increased either because of these small or because of the richer. The supplement to health insurance, however, is a story that is extremely complex. Yesterday we had the opportunity to talk to some representatives of Sweden, where the current changed power - they have slightly withdrew to the right - has great problems when it completely releases supplementary health insurance; and this is in a rich Sweden, with five regulators! We are here in the Assembly Hall, and we do not have the basic information required by the Committee. For me, the business conditions for continuing the debate are not met. So I propose, President, that if the Minister says something - right, if not, the Government should present this in writing before we can decide in a sovereign way which direction to conclude in the amendment to Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to invite Mrs. Secretary. Here you go. Well, I can do that now as part of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u53	Hello again, Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for the instructions. I guess I have some things to learn. If I'm allowed, I haven't had this kind of live training yet, so thank you for the initiative, I won't be offended if you tell me when to sit, and I'll get up. I don't really know that, but I do know a few other things. Above all, I would like to inform those who have very doubts about my knowledge of this area, the areas of health, that, with all the strength I have, I have given in to this and that my key priority is to find out where the biggest problems are for users and what the most grieving citizens and citizens are and then to continue their work here; intensely, as much as possible within one year. This includes this finding that there are some backlogs in the field of legislation, which I have also announced at my first performance in "hearing", and in this area of legislation we need to push forward. Today's novelty of the law is also one of these, just one of at least five key ones, followed by laws that can also solve some of the dilemmas that are being left here today and are open. You've decided, so long ago, for a rate of 0.75%, then obviously with some arguments that I haven't seen and I haven't known them to this day. Well, I take it this was made on some sort of argument. That the Commission was appointed to prepare the calculations, one year ago, as I received the information, this commission did not make these calculations, obviously for reasons such as there are extremely many different interests here. Different interests - today everyone will prepare their calculation because each meter has its own meter, from where it actually comes from, and this meter will be used in the calculation. Therefore, my thinking is first in the direction of what is the basic objective of this law. The main objective is to regulate everything that weighed citizens and citizens, while insurance companies and operators, of course, had this mutual communication on mandatory data transmission. And so perhaps a woman from the hills or suburbs had to work hard to obtain her rights. Therefore, this part is extremely important to me, and I hear that there is no doubt that the proposal to supplement the law in this area is useful, and you clearly see in most. In the part where the DeSUS amendment has been made in these last days, however, the ministry's reaction to history is such that the calculations that we have made have been made, but these calculations can always be debated in terms of interest groups. That's why this was our thinking, and this was also the Ministry's proposal to amend DeSUS to keep this state today at 0.75, but that in the future, when we can calculate these things in Slovenia, when we know how to bring them to the common denominator, of course, let us leave the subject matter open and live in an open and complementary way, also in the field of legislation. This is the answer from this point of view, to find out, the complementaryity of the law is very necessary, where the key objectives are where the key reasons are, however, that there are clearly very different opinions in the field of these percentages, which could be required in the past to be argued at the time of the adoption of the law itself. And I can only say that, within the framework of our ability, within the framework of the group that has been appointed, we will insist that it be brought here to a clear picture. But if I look from the point of view of the opposition Member, Mr Drobnič, who said that the market always says the right price, of course this is true. In the market when it comes to competitiveness, the price is always the one that is ultimately the right for those interested in delivering certain services. And also Mr Grill, who says that the final goal is zero costs. And that's it. It's a reality. We must aim to ensure that, even with the introduction of communication technologies, EHealth is one of the key fundamental debates that will take place within the EU Presidency, that this will also contribute to minimisation for the part called data exchange. That is true, however, we know that all those who deal first with their costs, with their lives, that the economies of scale are always the ones that give, which raises or reduces costs. And here it must be stated that those who have up to EUR 25,000 are clear that this cost or income means more to them than to those who have a million Euros of defined and justified damage in this area. Above all, I urge you to look at these things with the sense that everything cannot be done overnight precisely, but our real goal at the Ministry of Health is to move on and somehow take some steps that are extremely important to citizens and citizens, and that we do not want and do not have the slightest desire to harm anyone, but at least those who are socially at risk. And that there was no pressure on the insurance companies at the time when the intermediate charges and payments were more than 3%, and no one asked. I still say today: between three and one is two percent of the difference, between 3 and 0.75 is 2.25. But after all, where is this potential today? But where is this potential if these pressures of insurance companies were exerted on a group? Let us look at the subject from different perspectives and not forget the main objective of the exchange of information that is crucial so that users can live the regulated and normal life that the health system in Slovenia has to offer. I believe you know who you are here, I would say, really in politics and you know a lot of receptions with which it is possible to challenge disability. I am really working from my experience on this principle, what I am assessing is reasonable and what actually holds the greatest value at this point for citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u54	Thank you, too, for your complementary presentation. But since I can see there's still a desire for a debate, I'm going to open a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. Madam Secretary, if you'll excuse me, please. Thank you. We have three more debaters. But the word is from a Member of the Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If we can correct the Minister, Mr Drobnic is a positionary Member, he is not opposition. That's the difference. So, you've talked about everything, just what's the basic dilemma, you haven't said anything, Your Honor. Who's gonna pay for this? The fact is that you agreed to increase without insurance that you did not invite them to interview, the fact is that this is a government proposal, and the fact is that this account will be issued to someone sooner or later. So to whom, then? Insurance companies argue that this is also a fact that operators only need more money from insurance companies to properly issue their accounts, require higher fees, insurance companies need more money - from insurers, that is a fact. And because of these new costs, users will be burdened. That's a statement from the insurance companies. All three, except Triglav, who did not wish to make concrete statements, were thus recorded in their position. And I ask you that I may later take you by word - some Members have already grown their noses because of the lie in this temple, I hope you will not - will this cost have to be borne by a citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia? Please, if you say so here and now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u56	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Milan M. Cwickle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u57	Yeah, it's a good thing I sat down when I heard the government's presentation. Look, we're gonna know what this is all about. In 2005, the Government, in fact with the amendment in this National Assembly, fixed this compensation to 0.75%. The Minister brought in changes to the law, which did not say anything about compensation, but only counted precisely what those obligations are, if you want, public services that these insurance companies have to provide. And on the board, all four coalition parties proposed two compensations, one and 0.75. I now hear that the representative of the Government, the Minister, proposes to essentially support the DeSUS amendment, which brings the situation back in 2005. At the same time, the coalition on the committee - or you cheated on the committee - claimed that you had calculated by introducing two levels. I must say that I no longer understand how this government works or how this coalition works. And we really need calculations. We really need calculations! There are no calculations, because now that the Minister has said so, we believe the smallest coalition party, and in fact, she has lied to four coalition groups, i.e. the entire coalition. I have a feeling that the spirit of the former Secretary of State, DeSUS representative, is still very strongly present at the Ministry. But I don't know, the data, the minister, we need it. 14.9., that Friday, which was a little awkward because of everything that was going on in the National Assembly, the Health Committee told the Government to provide the data. The government didn't do this. If we had a normal National Assembly, I'm sorry, it's not you, Mr Vice-President, but if we had a job at the National Assembly to follow up on working-body decisions, there wouldn't be a point today. But if we got and got the right answer, it could go on. I therefore reiterate my call for calculations and for you to take a break in the coalition and to consider what is right now and what is the right amendment or what is the right one, not so much the political will as why you really have the professional basis: for this statement by the Minister to support the DeSUS amendment, or for the amendments of the four coalition groups, including DeSUS on the Health Home Committee. We're in the second reading, Minister. And in the second reading, all we have to do is clear up the open dilemmas and not everything else that needs to be done in health care or not to be done. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u58	Thank you very much. And to my word, I invite Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. My friend Squeakle, you're an optimist. The minister said a little earlier that we should leave the law as it is for the future; that is, for the future, for when we will be able to calculate. On the other hand, the Minister clearly and loudly states that she has no analysis or analysis. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wonder what we are actually going to do in this House. What's going on with the government?Oh, my God! Today we are talking about a law whose content is not important by government representatives or ministers, but you know, this content will be met by users at the final stage, as the insurance companies have predicted - people, including those from the social goods! But the content obviously doesn't matter to the first person responsible for this area. That, I'll say, grieves me. Grief, Minister! On the other hand, you say you have not prepared this law, but you say you trust the people who have prepared this law. You trust the Minister, the ex who was suspended, on the other hand, you trust the Secretary of State, who you have suspended yourself. Minister, I think that the time of the joke has passed and that we should really also approach the substantive analysis or the substantive coverage of the area. I'll remind you again, Minister: you've actually been talking about everything else. I could almost say that "hearing" came from the parent's working body; but what we should be talking about, about the content of the law -- you didn't actually say anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Then I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go, please. We have an additional Member. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u61	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It was somehow clear to me about this novel and that is why I was not even ready to join. However, the image is slightly reversed when we accepted a novel that regulated the area of supplementary health insurance. At that time, there was an enormous polarisation, including in this House, of the position that went against the insurance companies and again of the position that went against the operators. The fact is that we are living in society today, that everyone wants and today yearns only for relatively large profits. And it's understandable! However, we have already generally redefined ourselves that, with regard to the situation in the healthcare system as a whole, it assumes additional additional insurance of some kind of public interest status. And in this context, it is not possible to generate very large profits on this segment, it is simply not possible - for the general social well-being. And in this respect, we did quite well to resolve the situation in 2005 in the law. It is true, however, that the costs incurred by small operators to provide a whole set of data are significantly more burdensome than those of a largely critical or higher critical mass. And we as Members should practically not be defined for the benefit of, I will say, one or the other, but we are called to weigh and to weigh in a reasonable way by not going for either, not for the other's benefit, but to maintain some neutrality or some impartiality. And in this context, there is often a need for some kind of positive compromise, and this solution, which now bears the complementary proposal of the law, I see as some kind of positive compromise that we have been faced with since we were 'born', whether it will be a percentage of 1.5 or nothing. But we said it was pretty hard at the time, so be it. But all I'm asking is whether the order of EUR 25 000 per month accounts for the cost-accounted damage is the same one. Maybe we went a little high. But I don't know, no, I don't have these inputs to this information. I think this compromise, if I call it a positive compromise, is a good one. Good. He's good right now. It was also set up in a number of baselines in 2005. But then we made one big move, of course to the great detriment of the smaller profits in operators and also additional burdens on insurance companies, but the costs are, are being created and must be recognised. However, I firmly believe that there is no basis for the insurance companies to decide to raise the premium due to this limit, which now went below EUR 25 000. If they do so, then I think that there is room in the market for anyone else, on the basis of the defined limits now proposed by the law, the limits are set and then it is necessary, in terms of public interest, to be measured on the market. If anyone thinks the profits are too small, someone else may be able to survive for that profit. I certainly support the basic starting point that emerged from the amended proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss this next to my colleague? No, no, no. Comrade Squeakle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u63	My fellow Member's arguments are correct. What is, of course, a fundamental question is why the Government did not provide the basis on which they discussed it; and even vice versa. The government said earlier that you, my friend, were wrong. This is what we are here for - not even confused because we understand all the problems of the President of the Government in the field of health, but we believe that there are simply no conditions. Now we have a very strange situation. You will see from the magnetogram that the government's opinion on the amendment is positive. The amendment, which is the opposite of the solution voted by the coalition in the second reading on the parent's working body. I'm not defending the coalition. I just want to discuss content and facts in this National Assembly. For the fact, it has been requested, the facts have not been submitted, so I suggest that the President, if possible in accordance with your powers, break the point, the Government should deliver the reply and then proceed. Otherwise, we will continue as some of the voters with the coats and only on the side where the Minister is, but we know how to vote: reject the DeSUS amendment. But if we're looking at the secretary, we're going to support the DeSUS amendment. The problem is that this hall is round and some people always see the secretary. I would therefore suggest that we get arguments, numbers to confirm what has been voted on the home working body. If you do not give this right to all Members, then we will understand that the information is for those who are devoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The authorship of the amendment is to be signed or signed by the DeSUS Group. As I probably - or I know you know - according to the Rules of Procedure, the proponents have an opportunity to explain. Unfortunately, in the form you requested, it did not happen. But this is the right of each parliamentary group individually, so I cannot take into account your desire to break this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u65	I guess we didn't get along. I'm not questioning DeSUS for making an amendment. I object that the Government, in accordance with the report of the parent working body, page 2: "...to remove all doubts about such different calculations, has been called upon by the Ministry of Health to submit the necessary analyses." I expect the government to submit the documents, not DeSUS. DeSUS knows what - he explained that it is against solving two degrees and he has arguments for and plus. But it's the government that could give them. This is my procedural proposal: because the Government has not completed or responded to the recommendation of the parent working body, let us stop the meeting, not because of DeSUS, so that we do not get it wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u66	Thank you, too. My friend Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u67	I have very little time, too, but 11 minutes will be enough for what I want to hear. So the insurance companies weren't invited to talk. This is more than obvious and clear. The premium is increasing, my question was, Who will bear this cost? You claim that users or citizens and citizens certainly do not. I'm asking you - who? Tell me today and here, because you know the obvious substance of marriage. Second. It would be unacceptable if, in fact, we treat this as demagogically as we do, and then we do not say anything. We're all talking about a key incentive problem of 0.25%. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u68	Thank you for your exact question. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of the time you still have at your disposal and respond? 11 seconds, but I'm gonna miss you a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u69	Thank you for the questions. I hope that I have explained earlier what the main objective of the ministry is, and I will once again stress that we are adopting legislation that is very necessary in order to make life easier for citizens and citizens. For insurance companies, let me just say that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u70	Sorry, the automation in our house took your word. In view of the fact that for the first time today you have been substantively with us, Madam Minister, and given the fact that you were not instructed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia during your performance, I was also warned by Members that the opening presentation, namely when we are talking about the presentation of the law, is also being done by representatives of the Government for the central speaker, a later discussion, which is the moment in which we are also now, is being held within your seats in the standing position. Thank you very much. Does anyone else have a desire to discuss it within their existing time? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Squeakle, I believe that everyone in this room understands your desire and desire, but you know I can't do it. If the government, in the context of the situation at MDT, the parent's working body, not today, didn't want to provide data, it's nothing new. Good. So since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or no later than 20 and 45 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 6. At the end of the day - secondly, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the primary school law. We have an estimated 4 hours and 33 minutes of debate for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, and I will also give the floor to the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Milan Zver, for an introductory explanation. Here you go, please. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, honourable Members and Members! Thank you very much for the opportunity to introductoryly say a few words after the second reading of the two novels of the Basic School Act and the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. As you know, in this Chamber, we have already discussed both novels quite a bit in the framework of the competent parliamentary bodies, as well as we have had one particular debate, a public presentation of the opinions on both novels, so that I think it is as professional as the political and other public about the two novels very well, in particular because we have practically had months and months of our kind of debate on the individual aspects of both novels. In short, we want both novels to contribute to better quality, as is the case with the ZOFVI, the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, at least by setting the level of teacher education, this is the second bologna level; that evaluation is also provided, both internal and external; and that we want to achieve better organisation by also allowing for the formation of centres, which should prevent school termination or the integration of schools, while maintaining their identity, whether they combine some of their activities, functions or not. In the ZOFVI, we have also added some objectives, such as education for active involvement in a democratic society, stressing a responsible attitude towards ourselves, to the health of ourselves and others. In the area of domestic education and culture, we have stressed the importance of certain national symbols, such as an anthem and a flag. We have extended the free stay of children to the fifth grade. In short, with ZOVFI, the most attention, attention and media attention required private education because of the fact that we have abolished the discriminatory position of these three Slovenian schools and that we will finance their programmes 100%, as with other private schools and as with other public schools. At the same time, in the framework of the ZOFVI, we have established greater protection of children from the worst crimes of sexual violence. We have also complemented the objectives with the PPE, and we have added a curriculum. We have ruled out the Administrative Procedure Act in imposing certain sanctions. We would like to introduce, gradually introduce, another foreign language, and thus we would like to ensure a standard that is also known, also recognised in the most developed countries of the world, within the framework of the OECD. Legal dictatorship, the norm will become a flexible subject and we have eliminated or we want to abolish the curriculum that only two other countries have in addition to Albania in Europe. We also provide Slovenian for immigrants. Teaching Slovenian for immigrant children as well as education in hospitals. In short, the effects of the law should certainly be the expansion of competences, which is possible, as can be seen in the introduction of another foreign language, the care of the weak, the easier implementation of children's integration, at least partial integration of those with disabilities [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that they participate in certain subjects, and that is also regulated by this law. [[...]] I think the effects of both novels will have a positive effect on raising the quality of Slovenian school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u72	Thank you, too, for the additional explanation. The draft law was also considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. Chairman of the Board, mag. Branko Grimes will present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. On 13.9. the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the basic school law. Of course, it was based on the fact that the National Assembly had already carried out a general hearing on a proposal from the coalition's parties. This is said to be the first phase at its meeting on 10 July 2007 and to adopt the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. At the meeting of the committee itself, we first faced the proposal to extend the public debate or to suspend the process, but the view prevailed that the law, which gives a substantial role to parents who are in the interests of children and who are particularly protected, protects their interests, their integrity, which eliminates all school fees and thus eliminates the social inequalities resulting from the legislation that gives parents for the first time an actual choice, as guaranteed by the Slovenian Constitution, deserves to be followed as quickly as possible. That is why we have tried to implement the procedure in a way that would allow for the most democratic decision-making, but would not allow further delay. For this purpose, at a meeting of almost 20 hours, if I add the two days together, we have carried out a hearing and developed a supplementary text of a proposal which took into account a number of proposals which, at the time of the general hearing at the meeting, appeared in public and were also made known to the members of the committee. In addition, in the end, we also called for a public presentation of the opinions, which was carried out on Friday. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that I was very pleased, because the opposition was also fully involved in this decision, and that all the opposition members present voted in favour of such a public presentation of the opinions, which I believe is sufficiently public evidence that the argument that the public presentation of the opinions has been recognised or that it has not been carried out in an appropriate manner has been sufficiently substantiated. The very public presentation of the opinions was very good. I submit that one of the best that this National Assembly had, as over 40 different interlocutors who expressed their views participated, many of them with academic titles. If I say only in short statistics, I hope that all of you have received these materials are available all the time on the computer system, and we have also sent copies of those written contributions that have been made in the debate itself or before it or were forwarded at the latest on Monday, as we have committed ourselves to. This way you can see for yourself the content. If I can just summarize for a moment. There were over 40 debaters. Of these, about one third objected to new legislation, about 5 of them expressed support for certain solutions and proposed certain changes in some other solutions, an absolute majority, so to speak, and more than 20 have been supported by new legislation. I think it is even more interesting, since the issue of the profession has been highlighted so many times that of those who have also mentioned the academic title in their name and surname, more than 80% have expressed their express support for the new legislation and only the rest have explicitly opposed it. If someone who discussed this debate did not mention the academic title was not recorded by the service, this could be slightly altered. But I think the key message is clear that majority support is here. But let me just point out one more thing. There has also been a misunderstanding of what the public presentation of opinions is, as I have received numerous protests during the meeting, why I give my word, say, to Members, some with academic titles. However, I rejected this and said that it was a public presentation of opinions so that as many people as possible could face their opinions. I think that's what it was. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The reason why some later said that this public presentation of opinions was not right, but this is just a matter of understanding them. As we say, it is up to us today to decide whether the text drafted by the Committee is appropriate or whether we will complete it at the meeting and decide on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u74	Thank you very much. As you finally found out, it's a matter of understanding them. I personally assess that your presentation of the position of the parent working body was much more your personal opinion than the opinion of the working body and the summary of events in the context of the public debate. Therefore, the National Assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 30th meeting, so it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. You want procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office. I myself will strongly protest such manipulation in this House. Dear colleague Grimes! I believe you know you've overstepped your business powers. What we have witnessed in the last five minutes was not the opinion of the committee to which you are chairing, but was your personal opinion and position. You said, "I mean, I do." etc. I would like to remind you, and also to ask the President, in the future when such violations occur, which also have moral questions, to draw attention to the one who will present on behalf of the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u76	Thank you, too, for your comment. As it is said, we are moving on to a debate on individual Members of the Council, I hope that you will stick to the Rules of Procedure and also make a proposal, within the framework of the procedural proposal, to be decided by the National Assembly, not as a colleague before you. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with your assessment, which you gave after the chairman of the Committee on Education and Sport. I agree with a colleague who said how this thing works. For the sake of the integrity of the National Assembly and for the sake of not becoming a puppet theatre, I suggest that you discuss the above-mentioned event here and take into account the protest that we have not just once given to members of the opposition, at the College, to discuss such events in the National Assembly. For the rules of the Rules of Procedure have been gravely violated, not only here, but also in the management of the entire committee. It was thus achieved that, in this chemical presentation of the Committee's work, which included even what we said to the Committee under this point, but even a public presentation of the opinions, it was said that this public presentation of the opinions was a first-class manipulation of the Committee with the public and with the opposition. Each one will be able to pour his own pure wine, if we have done the whole thing not before the public presentation of the opinions, now we have nothing to do with this public presentation of the opinions, and in this way the expulsion of the public from the legislative process and also from Parliament has been carried out in such a public presentation. I don't think we should afford this anymore, so I agree with you, you have acted wisely, Mr Vice President, to include this issue in the meeting of the College of the National Assembly and discuss it there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u78	Thank you very much. My colleague Moja, I think to you and all those Members that, after a public presentation of the opinions last Friday, a group of Members has already addressed a letter on the way in which Mr Grims' leadership of his mother's working body and the public debate. That is why I believe that the College of the National Assembly will deal with this point on the basis of a letter from the opposition Members, i.e. their criticism of the work of counterpart Grims. Ambassador Maja Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am proceding that, as an introductory explanation by the chairman of the committee or the working body, this law would be subject to a written report that we have received, because that is an objective reflection of what is happening, otherwise in a reduced form, because it has already been said that it is a personal interpretation of what is happening in a broader context and of manipulation that would require too much time if we wanted to respond to every single point where there is a lack of precision and a personal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u80	Thank you, too. And I think it makes sense that we are going to the content now, on proposals to amend the revisions on individual articles, so we will go to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, and we will do so on the basis of the review of 25.9 this year. I call on the Minister, as a bill-maker, to have time at his disposal to be involved at any time in the debate on individual amendments, as well as all Members and Members present. In the debate we will have paragraphs 1, 3, 5, 10, 11, 15, 24, 26, 29, 30, 44, 46 and 48. I predict in advance that I will not restrict the debate. At the same time, I would like to inform you that I will only be in charge for 33 minutes. So, as a matter of fact, I am putting to the discussion in the beginning Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, LDS, groups of unrelated Members, Slovenian National Parties, but unfortunately I will not also stress the name of the Member of Mr Slavko Gabra, because the amendment was contrary to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, so all the amendments of these parliamentary groups will be exclusively amendments to the SD, LDS, NP and SNS. Please report in conjunction with Article 2. Here you go, please. So far, we have three reported debaters. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u81	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think it would make sense to accept this amendment to Article 2, because promoting the student's innovation and creativity is more than necessary in the modern concept of society's development, because the school must also get used to these people's lives once they come into a separate life, that is to say, in the harsh capital market. Without innovation and creativity, such a person will not have the opportunity to survive in this work and it is not good what is now expressed in this indent. Instead of explicitly referring to the development of entrepreneurship, it is not one of the objectives of primary education. This is probably more of a high school than I am and the notion of entrepreneurship as a focus on effective action is such a concept that simple people, parents, including teachers who are meant to understand it, are very difficult to understand. We felt that this amendment had been taken over or mistranslated from the English language and therefore I think that if we had adopted this amendment, we would have been kind of flattered by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u82	Thank you very much. To my word, I invite Ambassador Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. However, with this translation, we should first and foremost be aware of what we want to apply: whether it is entrepreneurship, innovation, creativity. I think it's good that we're applying all these things in primary school, and the question is, how much weight do we give them individually? Therefore, it is also appropriate to speak a little wider about what the school should actually bring. Above all, we can see from the results so far that there is a deficit in the area of education. This is, of course, why these guidelines, or Article 1, should be followed by the primary school. Parents are, of course, dissatisfied with the existing elementary school because of the lack of education, and that is why the initiative or movement that we witnessed in Slovenia was also created, the Initiative for Human Education. In fact, it comes from the knowledge that there is increasing violence in school, that there are blurred authority, that there is a discrepancy between responsibility and rights. And if we put too much weight on just one thing, then we're going to have more problems than we have now. Therefore, to exercise the sound authority of teachers so that they can also have responsibility in order to make it a warehouse. We will have a principle of creativity, innovation, if you want entrepreneurship, but we will have further violence. Why did this violence come about? This is the exercise of their own interests, some groups. This is also, in fact, contrary to the basic mission of the school. So whose school is this to be according to these principles? The concept of autonomy is an excuse. Autonomy, everyone imagines it shouldn't be anything, nobody. Should a school, then, be owned by teachers, owned by parents, owned by students, perhaps especially by those who enforce these interests by violence? Should it be state? Let's make primary school one of everyone. So, above all, it should convey values and patterns; what was missing was application. This was lacking in this primary school, so they are not helping now, as you can see, not the security guards, not the police, because the origin of this violence is somewhere else and we will not instigate it. I can only say this at this first amendment, and I also conclude that there have been many initiatives by the Government, NGOs, to improve the school. Perhaps some courage was lacking to implement all those urgent changes. But these changes, which are in law, are the right steps in that direction and in the direction of those goals that parents expect, as well as the long-term students and ultimately the whole country. Now, about this amendment. It was right that the elements of creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship, if you want, are in this principle. But it's important somewhere else. How are we actually going to implement this through education and this is an essential question, but not, as Prešeren said, how to write porridge either with "sh" or with a "s" that has a roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u85	Thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, I understand these things, but in my opinion, entrepreneurship is an essentially narrow target. A company could say that it is, in fact, contrary to solidarity. Different objectives are in entrepreneurship and solidarity, we are pursuing different objectives. And if a colleague told me before me that school today or that school needs more education, more educational concepts, more spirituality; yes, because we are pursuing this goal with these changes. I have an educational plan ahead of me. You know, I'm worried when I'm reading a very detailed curriculum, because in the curriculum I see, I'm going to say, the right message, it's "blackmailing", blackmailing by the Slovenian word that I won't repeat the government that puts "copy pasta" into the Slovenian laws of European directives or European laws. Yes, the educational plan that all primary schools will have to prepare after the new is nothing but a diction or nothing but a discipline for children. I estimate that this is some kind of emotional blackmail, the child will sign and have to stick to it, but the children in primary school are also 6 years old. What does a child at the age of six know about what he's signing? What does a child at the age of six know about his punishment? What does a child at the age of six know about the meaning of certain texts in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary? Even child abuse is foreseen in the curriculum, yes, it is envisaged. I will also support the amendment because I have said that, according to my assessment, entrepreneurship is an essentially narrow goal, that this is not a goal that should have been pursued by six-year-olds. I estimate that innovation, in fact innovation and creativity of an individual is what we must build on in the spirit of solidarity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I'm gonna open up a new application circuit. Here you go, please. So we have six additional Members and Members prepared. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the amendment and it is very easy to argue. See, in this dictatorship, which is now enshrined in the bill, entrepreneurship is first and foremost, and this is what should then promote innovation and creativity. Here's the reason and the consequence are mixed up, reversed. Certainly, it must not be entrepreneurship that promotes a fundamental and fundamental momentum of progress, not least the development of civilization. Innovation and creativity, based on progress, is based on civilization, on the basis that, if you want, we are different from other animals. And entrepreneurship is a consequence of this, one of the consequences of this, and certainly it must not then be the entrepreneurship of that innovation and creativity generator, as it says here, but vice versa. Innovation, creativity, the basic momentum of progress should be the generator of everything behind us, including entrepreneurship. And for that reason, surely this dictatorship is not the happiest set and it is wise to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u88	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Member of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will, of course, like, I believe, all colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, supported the amendment. The reason for that is quite something. I think a lot of them have been told by my colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš. I, too, Mr Minister, hope that you will also come to the floor, the word entrepreneurship, as you mentioned in the objectives of primary education, seems very narrow. I have a primary school at home myself, which I can't imagine being taught entrepreneurship in the first triad, where it is now. She is still a teacher or colleague in our time who knows everything. While at home we try very hard to convince ourselves, but if they learn the entrepreneurship of a child at the age of six - let us turn this into practice: the child will become an entrepreneur at home too! And entrepreneurship itself, as the colleague has already said, is the opposite of the solidarity that these governments have had in recent times. Therefore, I do not know how you would allow yourself to introduce such a thing among the objectives of primary education. And another matter of interest to me, Mr. Secretary-General. What kind of object would that put into effect? If we're talking, say, about the subject of getting to know society, I have to tell you that there's already a bunch of stupid things that kids need to learn. One of these, for example, is in a book for the third grade, getting to know the company, the concept of an administrative unit. Dear colleagues and fellow Members! I believe that each of us, from you, would gladly stand up and give me that definition, because I believe that you all know her, and you are all over 18. Today, we expect this from a seven - year - old child. But I believe, as you look at me, I see, you all know, most of you look at the papers. So you know just as much as I do when I had to look at it from a third grade book. And who's the most engaged in this country right now? It may even be a new subject of entrepreneurship, which will be referred to as a believer, because the RDC is currently the most entrepreneurial institution in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u90	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite the Ambassador Slavko Gabra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are certainly talking about Article 2 in full here and the debate on the concept of school in this country has opened. I think that, when we look at all these paragraphs, without this record, which is obviously highly neoliberal, it is enough to encourage children to go to various areas of human knowledge, to be sufficiently crooked and learn or to develop efforts in various fields, from respect, culture, ours, abroad, to develop literacy, visibility and so on. So it seems to me that the one who decided to write here is explicitly still entrepreneurship, slightly carried it out and moved it from one area where it is already written and shows how to develop this, slightly too low, especially because these goals are not divided by someone saying that it is done in the last triad, that it is in the last two years, when they are also directed at some profession, but it starts at six years. And there was a lot of talk in this country about how the school was too productive. Now, this same option, which has had problems with too much focus on efficiency in the existing system, is correcting this system by having it as a business objective from the first grade. This is conceptually beyond the reach of these children and it is also beyond what would be reasonable to do in primary school, so I think it makes more sense that the last indent should be read as proposed in the addendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u92	Thank you very much. But to my word, I'd like to invite a magician. It's a waste. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. I am in favour of the proposed amendment because it seems to me that if we are talking about the objectives of primary education and these goals, not differentiated according to the age of children, but should be the goals that a child reaches at the end of a nine-year-old, then it seems to me that the objectives must be so set that all students can also achieve them. Nowhere is it written and I can't imagine the criteria by which this goal will be evaluated, whether the student or the student has achieved it or not, how he has developed his entrepreneurship as a personality in an effective action. This is such a very specific property that an individual is expected to develop until the end of compulsory education, in order to set it aside from other objectives that are very important objectives and general objectives, from the first to ensure quality general education for all the population, part of what is being discussed in developing entrepreneurship as a personal orientation could be discussed at the second objective or, say, at the fourth objective, where it is to acquire the ability to continue education and career path with emphasis on lifelong learning skills. But there is still emphasis on lifelong learning and less on these extracts from individual things. Now, if I'm thinking about how we're going to be someone who has a strong affinity and great creative reserves and artistic expressions. What will we also force him to develop entrepreneurship as a personal focus on an effective action? What does this mean, then, that one will have to withdraw from the other? No, but if there's innovation and creativity, there's both of them, both those who are in the technique, and those who are in the artistic direction. The meaning of such a record also seems very problematic to me because it is often possible to find the term "know one another" in the language as a synonym for entrepreneurship. This is not only what we would like to stress from the educational point of view. I agree with the Minister that a kind of debate has been held on these laws. I also agree that this is a kind of understanding of democracy, which, with the usual understanding of democracy, only has a common understanding of the fact that, at the end of this position, they measure themselves by voting and that most people win over the minority. And at least in some remarks, it would be wise to consider that this nedigativity of the opposition has little to do with what it knows and it would be good to think about. Finally, I reiterate how this entrepreneurship, as a goal set out in primary school education, will be measured in measuring the achievement of the objectives of primary education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u94	Thank you very much. However, I invite Ambassador Mitja Ljubeljska to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All of you here present together! And I was thinking the opposite, as I have now heard from colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. I think this last indent is very appropriate. We all agree that the innovation and creativity of the student is good. But as an example, we know from life that we have, not only in students, but also in adults, in intellectuals, but also in scientists, who are very innovative and creative, but very inefficient. They can't put their ideas and innovations into practice. That's efficiency. Innovation and creativity without having any effect in the end is only part of the way. And that even the proponents of this amendment don't mean exactly what they're saying, even in their explanation, they write that they're tracking it in some documents, but that the unfortunate formulation of the term "business" - if you find another term, and if you know it, suggest it. And I don't see the development of entrepreneurship in a student at the age of six thinking about an enterprise, but what it says is that it is oriented towards an effective action. We don't only have children when we're six years old, but we also have pupils in primary school when we're ten, fourteen. And what is effective work with a student? It is necessary already for the smallest children - since we have all the children at home, we know how we raise them to be effective at their work, not just at school, in the small ones it starts and then in the first grade school until the last nine years and beyond. What you teach a child will then know, and it means that when a student is told about a task, there is a definition of something, say a task, that he has to do and until when, and if he does not do it, it means that something is wrong: whether he does not know, is not creative, whether he has not had time or is, in another domestic word, lazy and ineffective. And this should also start at the age of six, when it comes to first class, to start with a child, a schoolmaster to develop it - his effective work and effective work in school is to learn and fulfil the obligations he also has with learning. That's why I don't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Rudolph Mojet to the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is evident that some debaters do not understand enough. I think that innovation and creativity are sufficient conditions for entrepreneurship, while entrepreneurship requires a condition for creativity and innovation. As a math teacher, in my annual preparations or preparations for the hour, I will always have to point out what goals I will pursue. It would be very nice for me in mathematics to write that I would follow the goal of innovation and creativity; whether I would teach the cone for those who see more, for those who hear more and so on, or whether I would start to engage in entrepreneurship in mathematics. This means that I'm going to take this model theory: for as little as possible, it's going to make the most of this. [[...]] [[Note from the bench.]] I mean, a colleague, as a practitioner, each teacher has in addition to learning, preparations and in these preparations he has to write down these goals and must tell himself how to achieve them. [[..]] And the principal has to go to class and then evaluate him after whether or not he has achieved these goals. To me, forgive me, they seem a lot more humane for this century's goals to encourage the student's innovation and creativity, because since we are a small nation, it will only save our minds, rather than just force us into some kind of enterprise. If I reach my first goal, the second goal will be achieved on its own. And here, Comrade Petty Officer, when you said you were afraid or how we would achieve these goals. We Members of these objectives will not achieve, we can vote on the law, these goals will be integrated into the school's annual work plan and these objectives will be the task of each professor to then achieve them through his learning process. And it seems to me that it is completely, who is only a few years in school spent -- I have spent 20 of them myself with chalk and board -- that I have such a goal, innovation and creativity, much closer and I can make it out of these goals, and if I press, I will misspeak, a student who will have these qualities, as a student who will cultivate some kind of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Given that there is still a desire between Members and Members to discuss the amendment and the article mentioned above, I will open a new application circle. Here you go, please. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! My view as a teacher on the objectives that are written here is that they are, in fact, completely well covered by what is the objective of primary education. But when we talk about what entrepreneurship is, what innovation is, what creativity is, what bothers me more is that this is the last thing. It should probably be significantly higher in order, if that means anything. Early on, we need our students, our children - to focus on what they will do in their future. And entrepreneurship and innovation and creativity - I think it's an extremely important indent that gives a lot of this together. And why are there now some problems between entrepreneurship, innovation and creativity? It says well in the back: one and the other and the third, everything is covered in this goal of primary education, so it doesn't hurt from the upper head! After all, the teacher will, with his plan, cover this, so that both entrepreneurship and innovation, as well as creativity, must be implemented in his primary school programme. I don't think there's any problem here and we're discussing something that actually doesn't have any special background. We all want this, one and the other, and the goal is written quite clearly; the only thing that bothers me, I would give it a little higher by the lines, not just in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u100	Thank you, too. But to the word I invite the messenger Bredo Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I would like very briefly, just that I think it is unlikely that it would be advisable to start in the National Assembly to discuss the actual meaning of the individual concepts that the Education Committee has introduced into this law, but I would point out that the concept of entrepreneurship and the concept of efficiency are by no means synonymous. Efficiency is an expression that means that something quality, fast and thorough is done, while entrepreneurship is a memento of greater ingenuity. But I think in school to say that it is positive to be very resourceful or, in this sense, entrepreneurial, is quite unusual. I can't use another term.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u102	Thank you for your thought. I call on Ambassador Tomaž Štebet to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I would ask all those who still understand entrepreneurship with negative meaning, from a time when a private initiative, a private initiative has not been taken highly. I agree with those predecessors who talk about entrepreneurship as a prerequisite for creativity, innovation, ideas. In fact, entrepreneurship, if we look at it in its essence, is one of the types of innovation. Those who are entrepreneurial, find opportunities and get involved are active. And it's just an addition to innovation and creativity. Innovation and creativity require another aspect to discover something new or to learn something new, to acquire some new behavior, information, and then to realize it. And then that's entrepreneurship. It is therefore very natural to judge in the context of all three aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Marjetko Uhan to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! I think it's really an amendment because of the amendment and it's a word game and just so the opposition can talk about something. I have a feeling the resolution on higher education is repeating itself. However, I was disturbed mainly by the idea of a member from the National Party that whoever is engaged is not solidarity. You know what, if you're not engaged, if you don't have anything, it's hard to be solidarity. You can only speak the language, so I don't support such an amendment. And I think it's pretty good to create people and encourage them to be entrepreneurship and creativity as well as inventive. And that's what kids do at school. Even in those work volumes, you have to be resourceful sometimes to find the right word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Grimes. Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u108	Comrade Grimes, if you'll excuse me. I'm not going to leave you a replica if your colleague has a problem. What are you going to do to fix what's bothering her or what? Member Branko Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u109	Here I have to say that I look a little different from the lady who just spoke. In fact, I think for a moment the situation in this National Assembly of the point, when it actually unfolded, was affected by why there was so much noise in the transitional drafting of this legislation. Because it gives greater importance to education, it gives greater meaning to values. And one of the fundamental values on which every modern democratic society is based is entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship and ambition have been values that have been negatively valued in many countries in the past periods in Slovenia, because in some ways it is absurd. Everywhere around the world, if they're someone, they say they're engaged, they're ambitious, it's a positive omen. It's been a lot the other way around. I would remember that perhaps almost all of us today in this National Assembly went to school at times when it was just saying, "Be quiet, but be good, and obey, and give peace!" In some of us, this education has failed and we have not been silent and we have also been entrepreneurial enough at some point to win Slovenia alone together. That's it. And from this point of view, it must be said that this has certainly been one democratic deficit so far that has burdened us. We had wonderful scientists, people who invented amazing things. But when it comes to entrepreneurship, when it comes to some way of cashing up, in the most positive sense of that word, this knowledge of ours, this innovation of ours, this has often failed our people. And entrepreneurship is something that is certainly worth building from the young to the top, and children need to be given this as a value, as something positive, as something worth facing. For this reason, I personally believe that it is very important that the text remains as it was drafted in the previous debate and that we can move forward peacefully in this regard. Look, I'd like to warn you about something else. It was very broad in terms of the issue of values that was highlighted in this public presentation of opinions. Some of you protested earlier because I mentioned it, but this was organised by the committee, and a special report was given, and in order to further point out that I am trying to present some of the obstacles that came out of this, I personally see nothing controversial. On the contrary, this debate now proves that the things that have been said in this public postponement of opinions have been very relevant to the very debate in those points which are open here today. So, what's the problem? From this point of view, as we say, it is good that we all go over some of the obstacles, prejudices that may have been raised in a different school, and that we are trying to form a school that will meet the challenges of a new time, the challenges of globalisation, and that we will give the next generation the kind of education and knowledge that will enable them to take the least equal stand with all other nations and thus the good future of our Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, would you like a replica? Thank you. Mr. Secretary, did you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u111	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members! As you know, I would only explain the Government's position on this proposed amendment. We're in. We believe that the word "business" as an integral part of the objective is important. Finally, it is not new to include this competence among the key objectives pursued by Slovenian education. The concept is that they differ in content and scope, sometimes they overlap, never completely covered, sometimes they are co-existences. But when it comes to innovation and entrepreneurship, you could say that they're partially covered, but they're not covering both. This is why, among other things, the European Parliament has adopted key competences. Entrepreneurship is one of the eight key competences in addition to knowing the knowledge of mathematical literacy, science, mother tongues, foreign languages, computer literacy, intercultural communication, knowledge of civic competence, which allows for some social skills and virtues that enable active citizenship, and among the core are entrepreneurship and innovation. And this is one of the key objectives, as well as the values, which we are working for in our cultural and civilisation circle and which have been finally endorsed by the European Parliament. I don't know, we can put this out. But it would seem ridiculous to many to explain to anyone that some Members want to be uninnovative or that concept or purpose, this competence is not appropriate to be included in the basic objectives of this law. I am therefore asking you to do so, however, because I understand that the opposite views in individual proposals can be one way or another, but entrepreneurship is one of the really fundamental and solid competences that man needs in modern society. It is about developing this competence from a small student to an adult who is in the process of education. Key competences are intended for lifelong learning. So not only those who visit the formal school system, but also those who visit informal or informal. So, this virtue, this skill, this competence is one of the key things that Europe or our cultural circle has set up as one of the fundamentals. So please don't support this amendment. This means that you do not support the proposal to exclude entrepreneurship from some of the basic objectives set by the Slovenian school system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say to those who today think that there is a situation in Slovenian education that teachers can speak or we say, "But be quiet," that perhaps for a long time he has not been in any of the schools and it would be good to walk through Slovenian education. Speaking of which, have some sense of what's going on in Slovenian education. I think that's right. Because in this case we could estimate that in Slovenian education there is a lot of creativity, a lot of innovation and a lot of incentives for such an approach to work and that it has long been a long time since where Slovenian schools worked in this way. The second thing I would like to say is that we will adopt this law today or in the future. This law will have consequences in realisation. He will come to Slovenian schools and, of course, principals, teachers, educators, parents will look at what Slovenia has written as the basic goals to be achieved in primary school. One thing is very important - that the goals are not mutually exclusive. This is very important. When we talk about these goals, it seems very important to me that what has also been said is that these objectives need to be seen through values. And I wonder when the headmaster, the teacher, will look at the next goal, which is written here as "the development of entrepreneurship". Because not only are we talking about entrepreneurship, but we are talking about entrepreneurship, as personality attitudes in an effective action. I imagine myself as a chemistry teacher, how am I supposed to teach chemistry and make a student feel like an effective action? Is this the creation of experiments that will bring effective action so that the whole school will know about it? So, these will be real dilemmas that can make you laugh. Only you will explain how you interpret entrepreneurship as a personal attitude in an effective action. In particular, according to Goal 3, which says that we will allow the individual the personal development of the student in accordance with his or her abilities and interests. So his personal interests, his abilities, which will be involved in developing his positive self-image. I've been doing a lot of work on how to create a positive self-image in young people. We had special projects at school. All the assets were involved. Because that was the problem. If you have someone who is less successful, how do you create a positive self-image? And, of course, I wonder: How will this objective of entrepreneurship, which will be a personal attitude towards an effective action, be in line with this objective? Of course, this thing isn't funny. 'Cause that's gonna be a real problem. Because someone who will not be directed or directed to an effective action or will not be able to carry it out, I wonder what will be his positive self-image. Because it's about reality. It's not about writing something down here, and then we say, like in the previous marriage -- yeah, well, one's going to be a little bit better, the other's going to be a little bit worse. We'll see what a solution will bring. There is no way I can agree to the fact that when we talk about such important content that it is a game of words. This is about confronting the arguments we're trying to face. But not with the game of words, but based on content, based on the real consequences that will await us when we deal with it. As a parent, when I follow this goal, of course my questions in school will be clear: Tell me how you achieve or how you do not achieve personal orientation in an effective action with my child! And, of course, at that time, I expect the competent answers of the teacher, the director, the consultant, all those involved, actively participate in this educational and educational process. And then they're not "hechi" anymore. Then they're not "hechi" anymore. At that time, we are dealing with specific problems of the individual. I've never approved of saying that to a teacher. I have 150 students, and it's hard to focus on your problem. Because for an individual then only his personal problem is relevant at that time. At that time, it is necessary to take time, meditate, and seek a solution. And of course, that we can look for these solutions when these problems arise, of course, we must have a clear interpretation of the law. And if we are already interpreting creativity, innovation, which makes sense only in combination with entrepreneurship, then it is very difficult for me to understand the different interpretations that we are hearing here today about the concept of entrepreneurship as a personal nature in an effective action, then I find it very difficult to understand. And this will have to be explained to the entire Slovenian public in terms of what we wanted to say. That is why this amendment, which we propose, refers to the fact that the promotion of the student's innovation and creativity remains correct in this indent. For he will answer clearly what is the goal that we want to follow. In the rest of this indent, of course, I fear that it will cause a lot of problems and also a lot of misunderstandings, and in the end, a text that will have very little impact here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, my colleagues and my colleagues. I would remind you that we're talking about the primary population. And it is certainly a known fact that if we have this consideration before our eyes, there is in fact no fundamental value in entrepreneurship. And if we're talking about fundamental values, then we have to point out knowledge, love, respect, help, friendship, not what you write in the law. And ladies and gentlemen, is corruption not part of entrepreneurship? In terms of corruption, many children, because of this corruption, do not even have the resources to pay for lunch or lunch or additional school obligations arising from the bills. To talk about how we are social, and not to talk about corruption before, the previous point also referred to the fact that we have a great social abyss and nicely said, misdirection. I'm sure the minister knows. Data on how many families the primary school system has to subsidize lunches and lunches. Why don't you talk about it? These people are in an enviablely poor situation, and there are more and more. How will you explain to them that you want to develop entrepreneurship? But if their parents don't have the right to profit that they've created in companies. How will you explain the concept of entrepreneurship to them if their parents do not have the right to work, which is a fundamental constitutional right? How will you explain to them that their parents have no right to be socially disadvantaged if this is enshrined in Article 2 of the Constitution that we are a social state? You'll explain your entrepreneurship to them. Then you have to tell them about corruption first. Corruption is a condition for stealing and also for the development of individuals. Unfortunately, there are more and more. And he's always been poor. This is not what we are talking about in Slovenia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u116	Thank you very much! Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Please! Mr. Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Very briefly. No one who advocates this amendment contests the importance of entrepreneurship. Far from it. We're all aware of him. But as we've heard from Comrade Mojet, you're mixed up here. A sufficient condition is needed. It's confusing what's generating something else. And certainly entrepreneurship, but once again, on the basis of what was the basic movement, i.e. innovation, creativity, creativity, and this is a much broader concept. And if children get these values, these competences, then entrepreneurship will be part of all of this. However, if they are self-employed, then all of these values should come from this. Of course we don't have that assurance. However, I agree that this matter is not as important as we have been giving it here for a while, but it is a mistake to dictate a bill that has caused and resulted in some confusion. Once again, absolutely, entrepreneurship, of course adapted for those we talk about, i.e. for children in primary school. But what's important is that they're creative and creative. Because that's the only thing they'll benefit from later on in life. Not least, they'll be entrepreneurship. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mag. Brenko Grims, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u119	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that this is one of the goals. This in response to some of the debates that have already been here. And second, which I think is crucial to understanding this story, is the following. The moment that this National Assembly has already adopted the new Slovenian Constitution more than fifteen years ago, it has actually established entrepreneurship as a value by doing so. Because this is based on the very basic principles of the Slovenian Constitution, based on the fundamental principles of the new social order, democratic society, the regime which this Constitution has brought. And from this point of view, it seems to me that one part of this debate is so exaggerated and already so absurd that it is already difficult to really discuss it. But there's a lot of misunderstandings. Someone's been comparing entrepreneurship to corruption. I'm sorry, that's why this case can go away. Those who do not have developed entrepreneurship qualities as innovation, like all that comes from these objectives that are set here, will, of course, look for a shortcut. He'll be looking for a shortcut that can also be illegal and he'll go after corruption. That's what it says, it's the opposite here, but not here, it's impossible to draw an equation. Once again, because this is a value that is actually based on the Slovenian Constitution, I would expect a larger debate on how it is possible that we are now putting this as a goal into the school system. Why did we not do so immediately after the adoption of the Slovenian Constitution? What has been happening all this time that this democratic deficit has not been noticed, that entrepreneurship has been valued as the goal of the primary school system to give the city it deserves? This might require a special debate and an answer. But not the fact that this is proposed in the text today, but for some, I obviously look back, it seems excessive and they suggest that this should be completely deleted from the text. I will personally object to this. Once again, our goal must be to put the system in a way that responds to new challenges, to a new regime that we, too, sometimes cannot directly influence ourselves, to the challenges of globalisation, which will prepare our generations for the challenges of the third millennium. Entrepreneurship is certainly one of these objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u121	Thank you very much again. I do not understand that some colleagues want this entrepreneurial spirit, the objective of developing this amendment to be removed from primary education objectives. I'm kind of not getting along. We think and must transfer this positive entrepreneurial spirit to primary school as soon as possible. Very early, our students, as well as teachers, have to deal with their thesis, which I think is the development of entrepreneurship. Each student can only benefit from further education. Wherever he lands at the end of that education cycle. I think that's a good thing and that this is being transferred to school, that's what we're talking about and that this entrepreneurial spirit is developing. These goals are not easy to measure. This is difficult, this is for some more difficult debate than it is now here, how this, they and the third objective of primary school education is measured. These things will be taken care of by others, apparently. I think that's a good thing. It is positive and I welcome that this is finally coming to this level of primary education and that our students, our children, will face early what they will then do in the future as educated workers, as entrepreneurs, as creators. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that. I think it would be right if I did not support and support this amendment, because it is already written in the government proposal or in the paper itself, the development of entrepreneurship already in primary school. It's a step forward, for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to support this amendment myself, but I'm going to read a whole line of what we've written down among the goals. Developing entrepreneurship as a personal attitude, an effective action of innovation and student creativity. I think that already today many children are very innovative, very creative. But many in themselves are not very active or perhaps the teacher does not even know how to encourage them in the right way. I don't know why it's a problem if we're also pointing him at that if he has an idea, it's kind of a good thing that he's somehow actively expressing it. I think we should read the whole thing. Not only do we now hang on to this term "business" as if we were talking about an economic alliance or a word link. This is where entrepreneurship speaks as a focus on action. So that something of its own and that it's not passive. It will be difficult to convince me that our children are often very active. It seems to me that sometimes we bring them through the entire elementary school so that they are very inactive at the end and all innovation and creativity are already in the lowest classes when we want to generalize them into some golden environment, sometimes we destroy them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Dushan Kumer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. I really didn't intend to stop by on this subject. But first, I would reject the assessment of those who say that today's debate on this amendment or this article is absurd. Those who say this are absurd in themselves, for they speak contradictoryly about the things they are talking about today. On the one hand, years ago, they had no opportunity and no right to speak. Today, they say that children talk too much and that they need to be squeezed into school, that they are uneducated, violent, and so on. So they can figure it out. But I would've turned things around a little bit. It would be very good for all those responsible for this youth to have this sense of entrepreneurship developed within us as a personal attitude for an effective action, especially parents and teachers. We should have this developed. No, but we don't have it, and we avoid our responsibility to children. I speak very competently because I have a lot of children and I can talk about it competently - and I would like to say this to the young people, to them who are going to instill this in them now from the sixth year forward, I do not know in what way and by what criteria you will have it, but I would like to say: I fully agree with those who, if it has to be written that for me, innovation and creativity is the cause and the result, added value of this entrepreneurial spirit or entrepreneurial thought, including in school, including in youth. But I'd like to ask you who wrote this down and you've been avoiding each other's words, and that's "competence." However, you are not inclined to compete for this word with all your content and all your cores to be in school legislation and you are in many things, even in primary school this competition in one way or another, and to bring entrepreneurship. So I would suggest that you make some things clear with yourself conceptually, substantively, and so on. Once again, do not leave your own responsibilities to the young population. It's not the only law we put things into the younger generation. Things on which and for which we bear responsibility ourselves and are unable to carry it out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u127	Thank you very much! First of all, I'd like to talk to you about an incredible terror that reigned 15 years ago, 16 years ago in our primary schools. I think that all teachers who have completed a school or a teaching academy before 1991 should be forgiven because they were probably trained in this direction to terrorise children and tell them to be quiet, obey and do as the teacher tells them. I'm the one who graduated from school, or I've been in school for many years. Just because I finished teaching many years ago, I can say in full consciousness that we have never been educated in this direction in order to ban children from initiative, from creativity. Among other things, we had to, not have, in the educational process, but we also wanted to develop a value called solidarity. There is not one word in this law about solidarity, which is certainly of value, while entrepreneurship is not of value. If we go to see what value means, then surely we cannot count entrepreneurship among values. It is amazing that in today’s 21st century entrepreneurship can be said to be a value. It's kind of a property, an ability that a person has or is not. But the value is something we fight for in order to make it better and better for all of us to live in this world. That is how I think it is certain to talk about entrepreneurship compared to the concept that this primary school, which this law is talking about and by which teachers are going to raise children in primary school, does not mean that children will be raised in solidarity. In our schools today there is a visible, visible distinction, social distinction between children. How many times we hear that children from poor families are neglected, humiliated, and so on by their classmates, their classmates. Have we ever thought that we should put solidarity among the objectives of primary school and, above all, that the social situation cannot be the reason that we are children in school, that they are different in school? Here I think it's too slow to stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u128	Thank you very much. And Dr. Slavko Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There is no doubt that this record is as unthinkable as it is. I think it's clear to everyone who reads it seriously. Developing entrepreneurship as a personality in an effective action is nothing more than a horticulture record that does not fall within the law. Especially not in this law, which is the Basic School Act. I just expect us to find a similar one, because you're going to bring logic to an end, even in the Kindergarten Act. The previous record in the old, current law spoke of the acquisition of general and useful skills that enable a self-sustaining, efficient and creative confrontation with the social and natural environment and the development of critical powers of judgment. There's no record of that. But we have a surgical record now in this law. If someone would have added to him the record that colleague Pecan spoke about solidarity, then someone might have said that a person might have read the Constitution if you were teaching us about it here. Just like it's written now, but this place is way out of line. By the way, let me point out that the story of the objectives of the law is actually less important than we are now proving here. Because they have to be read differently. What is really the goal of education in this country, which is not set out in Article 2. In Article 2, this is only partially summarised. When you read other articles, when you see what school policy is, then you can answer the question of why we really take part in a school system. I therefore propose that we reduce indiscretion in such a way that we, of course, accept this supplement. It would be very good, however, if we are not specifically explained here by those who, like last week's associations, take us here, lead us by the nose, when people suggest in public presentations what should change in the law. But those who run this meeting know that it is no longer possible to submit a supplement. If it's not cynicism. If from that position it is possible to preach about values and talk about who has them and who doesn't have them and to speak ill of teaching in this country, then cynicism does not exist at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. The last two debaters left out a very important fact. Specifically, this article covers quite a few indents when they spoke of solidarity. However, it is necessary to pour at least now pure wine to the public, because I claim that in the proceedings so far, except for the public presentation of opinions - and here I would like to thank television for direct transmission - to a large extent the right to know as a fundamental constitutional right when it comes to the content of what this new legislation actually brings. That is why we can use this today to present people with what is really going on. Therefore, I read this indent: "Training for the common cultural and civilisational values that stem from European tradition." I hope that it is clear to everyone who has ever dealt with political science or social science that solidarity is certainly one of the keys between these values. That's what she says. She's covered in this marriage. Those of you who have addressed the obvious from this point of view have certainly spoken many unnecessary words. However, I must say that this debate on the value of entrepreneurship, as a specific objective set by this law, along with innovation and creativity as its key components, has led to the essence of what this story is really about. This is a fundamental issue of values. If you want, you can have a European attitude. For European orientation, one European fundamental value is certainly entrepreneurship. And that people, to prepare their children for this goal, to try them with the best of their powers in this direction, in the positive sense of that word, to raise and develop those qualities that will enable them to move on in life full of their implementation. If you want the whole community, the country of Slovenia, to have this debate so violent, this tells me in person very much. Just as I am grateful to those you have presented at this time, in particular at the last two performances or three, there is a measure of resentment that has always been characteristic of the debate on the Committee on Culture, Education and Sports. There were insults flying by the opposition. Not just me personally. I'm moving away from that. That's not a problem, but they also flew to expert people, to the minister, to the ministry, to representatives who worked there. One of those people who have just spoken - if you don't believe, you can review the tapegram of the committee's meeting - was talking about a 'unprofessional group from the Ministry' that are the only authors and advocates of this new legislation and so on. That says a lot about how to communicate. If this communication on both sides were to receive those attentions, as well as those ethics that would deserve it, surely where more appropriate solutions could be found and perhaps a greater consensus might be reached. In this way, if one constantly insults another and perhaps even provokes a challenge, because all of us are human, then it is very difficult to reach consensus. But please, those who have done this and who have shown this little bit here for a moment also now - I am happy to do this because today we are being accompanied by the public - please face it and take responsibility and please do not attribute your actions to others like you did here today, and you have already tried to do it all the time before. I respect the Rules of Procedure myself. To speak clearly nonstop to my account and to respect the Rules of Procedure by the opposition, which one of the representatives does not convene a meeting of the Commission despite having a direct basis for this in the Rules of Procedure, although it is clear from the legislative service that it is necessary to do so, but not its replacement is required, but mine. You know this also says a lot about double criteria, and in the end, it also says a lot about the educational effects of some schools that we have all put together in the past periods.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u132	Thank you very much! I will respect the Rules of Procedure and remind you that we are sticking to what we are discussing. We're talking about the amendment to Article 2. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Madam President! Minister, I will purposely appoint people so that there will be no problem in replicas, if anyone will also notify you, I advise you, let yourself defend the law, not your political soldiers force you to do so because they do you more harm than good. First case. What was going on on the board? Mr. Minister, you have appointed the President of the Union as a delegate of the Social Democrats. Whether it is an insult or not, let the honourable Mr Grimes judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u134	Mr. Zagorac, the same goes for you. We are talking about the amendment to Article 2, not what was on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u135	That's so much in your mind and knowledge. Mrs. Uhanova, solidarity, entrepreneurship. For you, it's the same thing. Are the professional firefighters solidarityable or are they entrepreneurial - in my opinion - voluntary firefighters - sorry - solidarity or entrepreneurial? It's my solidarity. They do it for free without entrepreneurship. Mr Minister, we're talking about entrepreneurship and I'm going to talk about this spirit of entrepreneurship in primary school. We're not talking about innovation. Innovation, I agree it has to be. The fact of entrepreneurship as effective actions, as Mrs Jeraeva said, can also be ineffective and we must try to make it effective. Even with a six-year-old child, I believe you agree with me here and we need to teach him. But this has nothing to do with entrepreneurship, because entrepreneurship, Mrs Jeraeva, determines the market. But here I thought, Mr. Secretary, that you would explain to us what you consider to be an enterprise in the law. Do you consider entrepreneurship to be a strictly defined concept set by the market, so that we can teach a six-year-old how to earn it in this country, because this government can do very well at the expense of entrepreneurship. Then I must say, thank God, because I believe that this amendment will not be accepted, it will only take one more year. God or help us if we do this. And another matter or third thing I'd like to mention to you, Mr. Secretary. You know, the problem with primary education is practice. Teachers in primary school who teach students from the age of six to the age of 15 did not have the subject of entrepreneurship. They didn't teach him either. And if someone doesn't know how to give up this enterprise, they're going to give it away very badly. As requested in the amendment of one or the same legislation, the concept of an administrative unit is introduced in the books for the fifth class. Anyone who gives me a replica to tell me what his concept is, and I'll tell you what the third grade book says, what the administrative unit is. I almost got thrown out of my chair when I read it. Then, like I told you, God help. And, Mr. Stebe, I have to mention you, too. I want replicas from you. You said entrepreneurship was a necessary condition. If we look at entrepreneurship very narrowly, there are two and two five in entrepreneurship. That's the purpose of entrepreneurship. The Minister has not explained to us how he talks about entrepreneurship. Two and two is five. The curriculum for primary schools is designed. And let me tell you: How will you - because this is an urgent condition, it is required by Europe and this Government - introduce it to primary schools even though teachers in these primary schools do not have it as an object in college, not in high school, not in primary school? How will they unknowingly teach our children about entrepreneurship unless you give these teachers any additional instructions, as is the case with the principals? I think the Armenian case is the last one you'll have on your desk in a while, how they have to act if they want to be. But it's the school's politicization. This is no longer the well-meaning nature of primary education. These are all questions and reasons that I believe I will now receive the answers from you, who I have appointed you. But I will still support this amendment myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mag. Grims, you want a replica? Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u137	I've already told you how this happened. Once again, everyone can see for themselves. Magnetograms have been available for a long time. Please use them so that there will be no thought, for then we can quickly judge in a completely wrong way or even be attributed to someone who has not done so. That's a lot of tactics to say with your finger and yell "take the thief" so they won't see that you've only got your hand up here in your pocket. It's been a long time. I said earlier, my colleague, that many of the insults that flew by the opposition could also have led to reactions from the opposite side. I can only regret everything that's been going on, and on behalf of everyone, I can only apologize for these things. Those who did it themselves would have been nice if they'd apologized themselves, of course. Just so that everything will not be so grave at this point that it will be clear what we are talking about when it comes to firefighters. Indeed, a colleague, firefighters, volunteer firefighters, when they carry out their activities when they go out, are solidarity. But when it comes to fundraising, which also enables some of the above-standard activities, they are also a bit of a business in time, my friend. And that's why entrepreneurship goes. For us to develop this as a value. To help our children develop these personality traits, which enable them to develop equally in the face of the challenges posed by globalisation and changes in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u138	Thank you very much! Mag. Straws, replica!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u139	Yeah, it's a replica. All I want to say to my respectable colleague Zagorec is that he listened wrong. I have taken the thought of honourable fellow Members Mojet that entrepreneurship is a prerequisite for innovation and creativity and nothing else. But I'm not going to respond to it. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u140	Thank you very much! Mrs. Jeraeva, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u141	I was talking about passiveity and activity. If you go to look at the monuments, you will see that the undertaking is also confident, bold, and so on. And why don't I support the amendment? I always quote: "The National Children's Parliament and children said then or again that the school taught them not enough to live." Our children need to meet a real world very quickly, and so perhaps if they are a little more entrepreneurial and can express what they want. We have a bunch of creative and innovative children. And if he doesn't have a chance with his teacher, don't convince me that he can express his creativity and innovation in any way. But if they're active at that, then they know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u142	Please, if you don't mind my saying something.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u143	He's a confident monument, Mr. Zagorac. It doesn't make sense, because obviously we won't get along.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u144	Thank you very much. What do you want? Discuss. I'm opening a new round to discuss. Check-in is on. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Talk about the foundations of statehood. They are clearly and loudly recorded in the constitution. Allow those who do not know: Slovenia is a legal and social state. This is my starting point. I'll build on it. Believe me, I'll try to build on it. Secondly, those who like to highlight European trends - respected colleagues and colleagues, I have recently received the document "Proposal of a resolution" within the European Union, which clearly and loudly opposes the excessive influence of the church on education. Europe strongly opposes this. No, Slovenia does not go up with Europe, but it goes up against it and it goes up against it, it's clear evidence on food today. Remember what you wanted to do or what you would do with the mandatory subject "Ethics and Faith." If I continue as far as firefighters are concerned, solidarity, volunteering. I say, even in the event of a previous disaster, every honor to them. But do you know who restricted their entrepreneurship? Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Government of Janez Janša. You passed a law on society. By this law you have forbidden them to collect voluntary contributions, respected colleagues and colleagues. We need to look very wide when we talk about facts. And to those who go into the noses of previous systems or of previous education, let me tell you, dear fellow Grims, now that you so sweetly smile at the principle of the previous system or the reforms of the previous system and the current system, the same person is only a little bit changed in the middle. But it still has very clear guidelines. The same man is at the forefront of this new reform. As far as passiveness and activity are concerned, I believe that the government, the coalition Members, do not know, do not want to say. But they know a lot, but they don't want to talk about it. Because if they were to be measured in this Parliament, they would undoubtedly not meet the objectives set by the Government in the Basic Education Act. If we're talking about entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship, we're comparing it to efficiency, then you're a zero, a respected colleague and a colleague. Not to be insulting, once again, I say that even those who operate with words and say it's just a game of words. You know, every word after each other carries a very clear message. The content of the words is important. I hope you will try to understand the content of the words, including those contained in this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to point out that there are several objectives and indents of solidarity included in the word as set out in Article 2 of this novel. The Member of Parliament mentioned the word competition. Why don't we write competition instead of entrepreneurship? I would say this: entrepreneurship is a much broader concept and covers much more complex content than just competition. But also competition is a skill that either some relationship or - we can say - is also a competence that is right for students to be educated in some healthy way. Last but not least, that's why we have school competitions. Last but not least, assessments of students’ achievements are such or different. But it's all before rivalry. Usually, the word is applied quickly, especially in this political discourse that we are witnessing today, immediately to competition as such. Therefore, it is better to use some other terms. Finally, our goal is to train and equip an individual with all the competences that provide him with a competitive place, a competitive capacity in the world, life and entrepreneurship. This is certainly one of the key dimensions. I'm a little surprised about this debate today. I did not expect anyone today to oppose entrepreneurship as one of the key competences or objectives in the process of education and education. How would we understand, in addition to what is enshrined in the article of the law, this entrepreneurship? I would define it as some prudent use of all resources available and also ways to effectively reach the goal. So wide and so wide must be understood. As a result, each individual has an increased ability to deal with day - to - day issues and questions on this basis. Finally, this will increase its use if we want to use this concept - including competitiveness in the world, in the labour market or otherwise in life. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u148	Thank you very much! I'm opening a new application circuit. Check-in is on. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u149	Thank you for your attention, Mrs. Uhanova. Dear Mr. Secretary! I was very good at listening at the last minute. You called competition a competence. Competence is decency. There is no essential connection to competition. Do we agree? You must have missed it. Cankar's competition, Mr Minister, will not take place this year because the ministry did not provide money, at least according to my information. And entrepreneurship as a fact that you have to find yourself in a certain life situation. Yeah, who's gonna teach these kids when they're six? Those teachers who didn't have it at school? You? Who's "painting"? Me? Slovenian public? Those of us who have children in primary school who experience primary school in practice? Please, come on! Come on! You're a little out of business. It was written somewhere, in a bad translation. Well, you got away a little bit, didn't you? You see how well you smile, honestly. Mr Šteba, if you use Mr Mojet's words, use them as your own or replicate them. Self-confidence as the foundation of entrepreneurship - is it?Oh, my God! The foundation of entrepreneurship is: two plus two is five. It's the only way to make money. And, Mr Grimes, Mr. Minister is such a "brief" man that he does not need your apology and action to react, even if it is ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u151	Thank you! Well, education for entrepreneurship is, indeed, a characteristic of the Protestant world from the European cultural context. And the man we had until recently also on our bills, Trubar, in addition to innovation and creativity, has also managed the enterprise to perform everything it is. Otherwise, as you explained the purpose of entrepreneurship, Mr Minister, it is so written in this part empty. And it doesn't make sense that it's written down. It's too bad it's written in here. Because if in higher triads, the last triads of primary school, they turned it into what's called training or preparing for entrepreneurship, it would be partial. But the expression of innovation and creativity in combination with all the other goals that are written contains what you are trying to do and what is becoming, whenever we talk about school, "shagger" - I would say - these coalitions. Understanding the school as a business, entrepreneurship as a neoliberal category, not in a higher, lower value system. I do not deny that entrepreneurship is essential for carrying out certain things in life, but, as stated here, this is an empty goal. And it's too bad it's written down. Therefore, it would be wise to accept our amendment's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u153	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Just for a little while. If we look at what reality is like, we can say that our children are already very entrepreneurship. And usually this pattern of entrepreneurship comes from the environment where they live, from their parents. If parents are very entrepreneurial, children are still very entrepreneurial. As far as I'm concerned - I'll be honest - I don't like this word in this. As for the earlier saying, the Social Act does not allow firefighters to collect voluntary contributions, which is two, whether it is ignorance or a fat lie. And if this is a fat lie, then I would say that this is one of the insults that we often hear from some Members in this House. But if, Mrs Tavševa, you don't know this, but before you say it here in front of the Slovenian public, take a look. Ask the mayor how fire companies are financed, how the funds are collected, how you can learn a little before you say that Janša's government has done anything and has taken the opportunity. Our fire companies collect calendars every year, according to contracts, in different ways. By throwing a party, etc. And they also collect substantial funds from this title. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Sok! I hope that you and I, and - I believe - also the Slovenian public, and especially those who are directly affected - say firefighters - understand what happened to the changes. Maybe I was bragging about the marriage. The point remains the same. Firefighters must not organise catering activities for the purpose of acquisition. Yeah. This was clearly and loudly recorded in the law. Would you allow me to explain?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u156	Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please give me a brief replica! We are still talking about Article 2 and the amendments to this article, and not the organisation of the Association of Fireworks of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u157	Thank you very much! But allow me, Madam President, this was a replica. A replica of Mr. Sok's performance. My colleague just told me that I didn't fail the law of society. Hold it tight. See if you know what you're taking.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u158	Thank you very much! Looks like there's gonna be another round of debate. Check-in is on. Mrs. Meretka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u159	Thank you so much again! For the sake of the public, it would be good to read the entire Article 2. That is, what are the objectives of primary education, so that the public does not think that we are only talking about entrepreneurship and that we will create big entrepreneurs in primary school. And a lot of solidarity, respect, cooperation, tolerance, these articles also speak to different thinkers. However, entrepreneurship is one of the words found in this line. It's all right. It's all right. Not all scientists, all innovators, all creators. But some entrepreneur might come out of it. However, I do not have to agree, Mr Zagorac, to the National Party's thinking that entrepreneurship is the same as corruption and that competition is also a bad thing. At that time, it is bad for business or competition to be produced or used for bad purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u160	Thank you very much! Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Only for the public. Entrepreneurship and the amendment are intended, Mrs. Uhanova, only the last indents. The opposition, of course, agrees with everyone else. They're fine. That last word "business" is not right. She's unacceptable to the opposition. Do you understand? Great, thanks. Only this last word and this duty to the amendment is justified on our part. Not the whole article, just the last indent. And you're talking about solidarity. Where is solidarity in Article 2? Will you show me the line? You won't, because she's gone. Mr. Sok, the Society Act. I believe you get the cards. The beautiful ones in the back of the NSI, painted with the Slovenian flag. It says "yes", "against" to make it easier for you to navigate, because your mind is very difficult to use in this House. But the Society Act prohibited voluntary firefighting companies from using their own staff and giving their entire income to themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u162	Could I interrupt because this is not in any way related to Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr. Vice President! I'll stick to it. But Mr. Sok had to be taught.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u164	I also taught him, but don't hold on. This concludes the debate on the amendment to Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 11 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, the Non-Aligned Members and the SNS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, sorry. Put your hand up so I can see. Not under the table, but above the table. Check-in is on. Ma'am mag. Waste, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u165	Thank you. The article we are going to discuss and the amendment I support is linked to putting the importance of sports education in the healthy development of children and is essential in the long term for national health and long life. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the possibilities of a flexible subject, bringing together objects and similar matters. Finally, we were one of the members of the Group who, together with others, tabled a proposal for a Law on the organisation of a flexible subject. What this supplement does is that it provides regular weekly physical education. Experts in this area point to the increasingly poor movemental young generation, an increasing number of children with overweight problems. Let us leave now at the edge of a group of children who are actively engaged in various sports outside the regular school curriculum. But for many of those who are given sports training as the only physical activity in the regular educational process, regular sports education, which should be carried out three times a week, would be an essential condition for the health of the generation. That's what this is about. I hope that the coalition Members will also support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We all know this human wisdom that all good in too much damage. Food, drink, not to list all the other things. Students who are in the teaching - training process are largely sentenced to sit in classrooms all the time. Sitting for four, five, six or seven hours in the same space and from hour to hour to experience these things that are being done through the learning process is somewhat stressful and also burdensome. On the other hand, the analysis of our school children shows, even for primary school, that they are underactive, so active. Almost all the tests show that. Therefore, it is also one of the duties of the school to help resolve this matter. I'm glad we have so many hours of sports. I know that the day when sports is also compulsory on the show is the day we have this watch. We know that all the students were more relaxed, that they worked easier, and that they went to school with some joy. For this reason, I think it is wise that if we are to achieve these goals, we should tell schools that it is good that they have to schedule these hours throughout the week. We old people over 60 years of age, where I can count on being able to move, but I have to exercise every day in the morning, not once a week, and I'm going to bring this all week, because I know it's hurting me, but it's not good. There's a lot of things that say something that's good for it. However, we should shake off the weaknesses in trying to place sports training in the subject during the past hour so that they were a massage to facilitate the composition of the subjects. On many occasions, however, they had to “click” these hours of sports education outside of school, and they remained for three hours after school, and they had this training in sports, or they had done something else for an hour before school or something like that. Now it's not possible to do this with a new school order. Oftentimes, these hours were intended for sports education, and what I said was, say, a school schedule massage and at the same time the removal of certain organizational weaknesses in school. For if the disciples go to sports training, they must change first. A five-minute break is too short for that. Then they must strip off, shower or wash and go back to the next hour so that the very contents of this hour - it is said - sports education shrinks according to pre-preparation activities and preparations afterwards. Therefore, it would seem to me that if we wanted to have a healthy family, if we wanted to be creative - that is to say - if we were to be entrepreneurial, if we were to be innovative, and if we were to be creative Members, we would certainly have to, after having these qualities, which we think would be good, to honor a primary school student, if we wanted to take this into account, it would be good for us to support this amendment and to place sport education on a different pedestal in primary school than it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I believe that there is no further debater on the amendment to Article 11. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm concluding. You want to discuss it, Mrs. Mag. Spending? [[Yeah.]] I'm asking you to call me right away next time. Because, look, I'll put my head down for a second when I read it, but I'm looking at the hall first, and no one's answering to talk. Please also bear in mind that this option exists on my part. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry if I'm causing you any trouble. Well, I'd really like to explain the amendment to the motioners. This article, which discusses differentiation in the teaching of another foreign language, excludes students from the 7th to 9th classes in the teaching of another foreign language and speaks of internal differentiation. The internal differentiation is inherent in any educational, in fact learning process. Emphasis on internal differentiation only when teaching another foreign language, in another foreign compulsory language - we are now talking about a compulsory foreign language - is unnecessary. Because this only denies all the other articles and all the other procedures that are urgently necessary in teaching. Therefore, we are proposing an amendment with which we - we believe - this article should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u170	Thank you very much. The application for discussion shall be open. Here you go. Amendment to Article 15. Ma'am mag. You've got your word back.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u171	This is all I wanted to point out, however, that the last paragraph of this new article is particularly pointless that the provisions of the first paragraph are not compulsory for private primary schools. It may be possible to conclude that private primary schools are exempt from all kinds of things. I do not understand the exceptions that are directly related to the teaching of another foreign language for all types of private schools. Like - for example - in physical education, it is also possible to say that private schools have a full view of physical education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. When we think about differentiation yes or no, in the case of a compulsory foreign language, it is good to remember at the expense of which subjects, at the expense of which another foreign language was brought as compulsory to primary school. It is essentially a recategorisation of one of the selection items in the mandatory. And there's no level of differentiation in the selections, there's no differentiation. So it's objects where it's not. This is precisely why this is another additional argument, why this is not necessary. And as I said, the second foreign language, the compulsory second foreign language, which has been introduced, has essentially reduced selectivity. We can nod the government. But the facts are like that. Prior to that, the availability of selectivity was significantly higher. Previously, selectivity has also been distributed more evenly between natural and social subjects. Now a certain fund of these hours is virtually less. It is a less specific fund of hours where there was no differentiation before. As it is a matter of bringing this choice into account, of course, there is no need for us to introduce differentiation here now. And it's quite possible that with a variety of tricks, the matter can be presented differently. But you will see, the practice is that selectivity is now less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I wonder for myself within the meaning of the provision set out in the text of the bill. For if we remember just a little while ago, we have talked a great deal about differentiations and forms of differentiation already in this mandate. And we've already changed Article 40. The 40th Article has already been amended in this mandate. And in Article 40, we wrote that a teacher from the first to the ninth classes - that is, in the first paragraph of Article 40 - in teaching and in other forms of organising work differentiates work with students according to their abilities. So, internal differentiation. Then we wrote down in the following detail what we will do in the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh classes in a foreign language. We said that we allow to the maximum extent of hours also organised level learning as flexible, that is, flexible differentiation. And then, in the eighth and ninth classes, we also allowed foreign language classes to organize either by assigning students to study groups or with two teachers or as a level study or as a combination. Of course, the question is: What is so specific about the second foreign language that you write Article 40a specifically, and you speak so vehemently about the autonomy of schools? So many times we have heard the autonomy of schools, the autonomy of teachers. Now you write article 40a separately and for another foreign language you do not allow the autonomy of schools. You don't allow the autonomy of a teacher. You only write one form of differentiation. So, internal differentiation. It is interesting that you are interfering with the seventh to ninth classes, although the proposal, which we have amended in this mandate, has a slightly different division. The eighth and ninth classes have different forms of differentiation than - say - seventh grade. So these are interesting experiments and interesting arguments of the profession that justify learning a foreign language in such ways. And, of course, it would be very good to hear where the reason why you now write into law when learning another foreign language is explicitly that only internal differentiation is allowed, as already stated in the first paragraph of Article 40. When we talk about another foreign language, we need to ask ourselves what is the point, namely, of selectivity. I have already discussed this in the general debate of this law. We know that the decision for the second foreign language as a selection subject is already very high in current practice. Compulsory learning of a foreign language. Of course, the question arises to me: How will that goal be realized when we talk about developing the most powerful aspects of an individual and that selectivity makes it possible for him? Because I'm aware that knowledge is important. But this government also shows -- let's say -- by appointing new ministers, that it's just not so important if there's something you decide, even what you know. Weighting whether mandatory introduction of another foreign language and precise definition of what a teacher can use as a differentiation between the seventh and ninth classes. I wonder: What is the professional justification for such legal solutions? Won't someone who will -- let's say -- learn a foreign language -- say -- in an evening school or in his own instruction -- be handicapped on the basis that a teacher won't be able to use any other form of differentiation? What, then, is the professional argument for such a child? It would also be good to see why you exclude private schools in the second paragraph. Therefore, the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article are not compulsory for private primary schools. In what context is this difference now possible? Because if we are saying that we are going to have the same accessibility to knowledge, then why are you restricting - say - public schools to such an autonomous form of teaching in the form of differentiation as you allow private schools? In this way, will you not limit the knowledge of those who will enter the seventh class into the framework of another foreign language to learn it in a significantly different way than the school would want to organize, thus preventing it, both in the 7th and 8th classes and in the 9th classes? What will be the motivation of a child who will - say - come with very high knowledge in the seventh grade at the beginning of the second language class, with his knowledge very high, and the school will not be able to use any other form of differentiation that we have now recorded in Article 4 and what autonomy of schools would leave an autonomous decision? In such a way that it would be very good for the Minister to hear arguments about why you oppose the amendment's proposal to delete the text of the article, and what are the arguments in which the forms of differentiation are drawn up for the foreign language in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Mogue, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To speak of opposition to Slovenians ’ knowledge of foreign languages is now blasphemous. This is what the National Assembly was aware of very early, but by the end of its first term, it had also adopted the so-called School Tolar, in which additional funds were devoted to learning foreign languages. However, Mr Minister, what we now read to you in the opposition is as follows. You have introduced another foreign language among compulsory objects. This narrows down the definition area of the selection items. You did this without analysis on the conditions for introducing only this in the whole country. This means: Does it make sense or doesn’t make sense, or what are the real options of setting from teacher to student selection? Who did we give a plus here and who did we give a minus? Students have been able to collect these things so far. I must say, the choice was that more than 50% of the students chose another foreign language. For the most part, he was chosen by those who needed this other foreign language for their career. So among them were the high school students or those at the vocational schools who thought to continue their studies. While learning another foreign language is as small as it is now covered, it is for students who will go to vocational schools who will then not be able to develop that language anymore, because the school system will not offer it to them and for them the real sea can happen. This is said to be using some state money, instead of developing this student - as you said before - entrepreneurship - would in fact end up with such a measure. This student could take another choice class to which he is happy and with which he could continue his career successfully in the future when he goes to vocational school. That is why we have proposed that this article should be deleted and that the law in this part could indeed be amended and made after a quality analysis would indeed be carried out under the conditions for introducing this in the whole country, from which it would also be possible to see what the business objective of one such measure would then be. That means what he'll bring to the student, what he'll bring to the state. For this reason, it seems to me that, now in this consideration, an article as it is, cannot get the vote of the opposition. It would be necessary to reconsider and do what was not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. The purpose and purpose of the opposition to this amendment are perfectly clear. We want to define the way or form of differentiation in the future foreign language in the last triad. We want it to be an internal differentiation. Especially because it is a fundamentally different approach. Also didactic approaches compared to the first foreign language. After hours, it is a completely different story and we are convinced that the forms of internal differentiation can achieve a rather broad set of goals that is set in this object. As far as selectivity is concerned, I would like once again to highlight what we have already done several times. Here we have the diametric opposite position. While you claim that the extent of selectivity decreases with our solutions, we claim quite the opposite, that it increases that selectivity was previously replaced when children had to choose one object from one pool and one object from another pool. It's not like that anymore. There is no limit to selectivity. With parental permission, they can have more or as much as they have had before, if they have already filled out all the gabarits in this regard. In such a way that no argument is in fact against selectivity being reduced. On the contrary. When we introduce another foreign language, when we introduce another foreign language, the choices are further enhanced, as some students will later be able to choose another language that has become mandatory so far. So here you will find it difficult to convince us and anyone else that the selection of the solution that we have in this novel is diminishing. Finally, the level learning also retains its - say - at least numerical, especially in mathematics. While in foreign language, especially English and Slovenian, there are some other forms of differentiation. So this is where level learning falls, the frequency of using this form of differentiation. However, as far as private schools are concerned, the same issue could be addressed to the legislator in the previous law. The exact same doctrine is that the forms of differentiation, those which define the forms of differentiation, do not apply to private schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Check-in is on. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again. I myself have the concerns that I have also expressed in the general debate on the second compulsory foreign language, out of the simple belief that this additional burden on many of our students will be quite difficult, very great. In the fact that already with one compulsory foreign language, which is right - I absolutely support this - many students have problems. With two more. And this will be an additional burden that will put many of the learners ahead of additional problems. For all the disciples - we know - are not equally capable. And whoever wants more than one foreign language today has a choice. Despite your argument that this is a learning society, the EU and so on. Everything's fine and fine. But this option is given to those students who want this knowledge. More foreign languages and so on. That is why I fear that this measure of yours, which I consider to be an issue - of course, I have the right to this own conviction - may be too much of an additional obligation. I am concerned that this second foreign language will work for many students, while, as I have already said, they already have problems with one additional burden and difficulty. I believe that your beliefs and the beliefs of your associates and professions are yours. Part of the profession supports it, but part of it I don't think it is. As with some of the principals and teachers, this is not supported. And that there is - I say - I am also the parent of the seventh-grade student, and from this point of view I wonder if he can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! When I listen to the debate, I find that if the adoption of which law has paid off the debate, then it is right here. In view of our first hearing, we heard certain points of view. That we had a second hearing and a public presentation. It was at this very time that we were able to convince you that another foreign language was not as much a curse. I also remember that at first reading, a respected colleague on this side of me still had second-language thoughts. I can read it from a magnetogram. But that's not essential. I was very pleased with the words of my respected colleague Mojet, who said it would be blasphemous to oppose. I think that's a pretty good point. True, all humans and disciples are not alike. They're having trouble with an object. One with this, the other with the other, some with the tongue, and some with what else. That's right. But time is such that knowledge of the language, even if only partially or poorly, benefits. I'm happy to see that yours doesn't make sense to oppose the language. But now an interesting problem has arisen somewhere else, in the form of differentiation. If I recall correctly, one year ago we also passed a law on primary education, where we expanded the form or more differentiations. Previously it was - and correct me experts on this - just - I think - one form of differentiation, more or less. And then the problem was what it would look like if there were other forms of differentiation. Today, however, everything really bothers to be just one form of differentiation. Why aren't they others? It is good that you have accepted that many forms could be changed, as the law did at the time. The law was changed. So I think we've made progress. If nothing else, at least knowing that another language is needed and that it is no longer some serious "fun fun". On these forms of differentiation, we may also reach a common denominator by the end of the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u185	Thank you. The problem is, we don't know exactly how to listen. I have nothing against learning foreign languages. In the debate on behalf of the Member of Parliament, I pointed out at the first reading that we know very few foreign languages. 1.6. However, I oppose the compulsory foreign language at the expense of compulsory objects. My position hasn't changed. Mr Minister can convince that there is no argument that selectivity is decreasing. There are arguments. You introduced us to a music school. So, all those who go to music will leave one choice item at school. You've reduced the number of hours of selection. What I had to hear in my selection was that some scandalized that children were choosing physical education, which I think is good for them to choose. You have scandalized yourself about choosing a household, which is good again, to raise it as an informed consumer, so that it can take healthy food into account that it will be able to look for what other ministers tell me is "the world is better" what traders are doing to us. In short, I could tell you a lot more here. But I wanted to say that, on today's European Day of Languages, I read to the Statistics Office again why languages should be taught. Very interesting. In the first paragraph, foreign languages must be taught for business reasons and labour market mobility. There is no other reason for learning foreign languages. And I know a lot of them. And now I'm not gonna spend my time doing that. But this statistical information says that the whole population of primary schoolchildren in the third triad of one language is taught and 45% are taught in the other. Mrs. Shriner mentioned some other information. However, what could be heard in a public presentation of opinions from experts defending a compulsory foreign language was only that we had to change something in our head and change our attitude towards language and we would understand and not oppose the mandatory introduction of another foreign language. I find this underestimating because no one has anything against another foreign language. Let me understand! Let us leave open room, however, for those of the few young people who do not have the resources to develop and do not show a desire to learn another foreign language. Look what's going on in high school. Our goal is that every young person should have a high school degree. And in high school, that other foreign language gets out of our chain. Here we have concerns about how badly you make proposals, how you don't plan for the entire vertical. That is why I think that you have introduced, at least gradually, a compulsory foreign language. One small incentive was also from these sides that we made reservations. What else didn't happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u186	Thank you. I'm opening another round of reports. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, just one question. Please let me know on the basis of which analysis you have found that the second foreign language is important or compulsory in the second or third triad of primary education. Sam - as I say again - the daughter is in primary school and I got a bunch of offers for optional learning of another foreign language. Since I found out whether or not my parents realized that she could be gifted to languages, we also signed her in and paid certain things so that she could learn another foreign language, even though she would not need it at a high school or a vocational school. If you're talking about how important this is today. It really is World Language Day. But then why don't we teach children in primary school how to digest? They do not require a language, only good work and very well paid in Europe. Especially for workers coming from the new members of the European Union. Another foreign language can be a very deceptive matter. Especially for children who do not meet this standard. And we commit them to it. Even when I went to elementary school alone, some of you probably visited or even ended up here because it was compulsory - thank God, you had a foreign language, and then you decided which direction. One of you was the locksmiths, the other the blacksmiths, the third selling vacuum cleaners in - I don't know - in government clients. But you don't need a foreign language there. And some of them are very good mechanics. Today, where I'm driving the car. And they're very good, and they can tell me that in very Slovenian. Please tell me: Why and what analysis has shown that either French or Italian or Spanish will be so important that we have to start studying it in primary school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My question is this: By reducing selectivity, do we prevent students from learning another foreign language? Are we preventing it? The answer, in my opinion, is no. The question is: Why are we introducing him? Why are we reducing selectivity? In what way will we produce this other foreign language? Will it be possible at one school, given the different interests of learning different foreign languages? I'm talking about relatively small schools. In order not to prescribe which other compulsory foreign language is. And if we're talking about language skills, it's important, and I think there's no one here in this room today. And I think there is no one in the Slovenian public who is unaware of the importance of foreign language knowledge. I mean, sometimes we've been taught, you know, you're more effective if you're not, but you're a minister. But the point is that there is no argument that selectivity needs to be limited in order to prescribe something mandatory, which is given with selectivity. Mr. Minister, I have not heard the arguments that you would make in order to specifically write down the form of differentiation. So in another foreign language, you only allow for internal differentiation. You failed to handle the arguments why only internal differentiation. For I remind you that a large child will come to the seventh class with a very high knowledge of the foreign language, because the awareness of parents today is that knowledge of foreign languages is very important. And in what way will you then allow the schools to have autonomy so that all these differences, where you will deal with students who will have absolutely nothing to motivate them to learn another foreign language because they may already have very big problems in the first foreign language? Then how will you motivate this student in relation to the student who will come to this group with very high knowledge? Will this student, who will have very high knowledge in a foreign language, not be able to learn - for example - a foreign language that will not be offered, be required? There are many questions here that there are no answers to. So there are no answers. And just talk about wanting to have another foreign language and that Slovenians would like to know foreign languages and that we will reduce selectivity quickly and state a mandatory foreign language. I don't think the goal will be achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, he asks the Minister to explain to me once again what arithmetic he is justifying that selectivity does not decrease. Look, it's been 27 hours and three choices. Then you're with a trick that class hours don't count as loads, but there's still a commitment. Okay, after an hour, you've been here "squeezing" - we'll say - but the kids are those half-hours in school. So they're no less in school. And one more hour came along. At the expense of their parents ’ decision to expand their children’s burden for an hour, which has already been done. So the net result is that one hour -- as I said -- of these total three, you took. Plus that's another half hour overqualified and so get one and a half hours for mandatory other foreign language. On what? At the expense of the fact that the two selection items remain and the third ones can be chosen, which, after all, is now up to the parents themselves. The fact that at this point half of the students have already decided on the second foreign language as a choice language and that you will now say it, but now it will be mandatory, as they would say, look, because the vast majority uses the cell phone, and then the lady will be obliged to do it for everyone. Yeah, some people don't need it. And by expanding these selection items on the one hand - for example - with a music school, you create only confusion. You're making a mess of things because they're different things. Then another school, which may also be excused to be evaluated as something of a choice. That's not in there. There was a lot of talk about athletes. However, an amendment was not adopted to show similar value to those in primary school who engage in knowledge with creativity. So with those things we talked about at the first amendment. And you have also achieved that this selectivity at first sight will of course be greater, as you can quite freely choose. However, in the final stage, you have disappeared or even abolished even distribution, so that students choose between natural and social subjects. Look, it's already important that you two can talk or that our students can talk to strangers in their language. I emphasize, we adapt to it, we adapt to their language. But I think it's also important that students know that electricity doesn't come from the power plant, but from the power plant. And that you, for example, cannot imagine life without a computer today. It all points to what I said before. And those arithmetic tricks didn't convince me. I still have one more hour missing and that half hour with the trick, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! In today's day, I have asked myself many times already whether languages are a blessing in the EU or whether they are the curse of the EU. In fact, in a commercial sense, the functioning of a large community and system, if one language has one language, is inappropriately simpler than being made up of 20 and more languages. The translations themselves - I don't know how much they cost, let alone professional communication with each other. But we are where we are. And it certainly goes to us because we are a small nation, so that by introducing foreign languages as much as possible, we are also increasingly forgetting or putting our mother tongue or the language of our parents at the forefront. That's why it seems to me that when we're in such a dilemma, it would be wise for us to be a first-class colleague of Rudy's, because there's still one in the back row. There's three of us. This is the first time I've been in Parliament, with this name, it's smart for the Ministry to speak another foreign language. But at the same time, I say I miss what it is. I miss the analysis to talk on the basis of arguments. For what has now been said has not answered the fundamental dilemmas. Look, I think the first thing is to restrict the choice of objects. At the same time, it is also a burden for all to have three languages in primary school. Just as it used to be in classical high school at the beginning, the Slovenian language will be the first foreign language, and the second foreign language will be the foreign language. We're going to load some of this up as a burden. And it won't be a curse, as my colleague said before me, if they get that language, it's not a curse. But it's definitely gonna be for some, fun-fun. Thank God, some will say that the minister was so smart that he drew on general learning success. And now we don't care how much grade we have in another foreign language. Or we take it the way we take it. That's one dilemma. The second dilemma, as colleague Potrate has already said, is even worse. As soon as I was Vice-President of the Governing Council in Maribor, one mayor, then moved to Strasbourg as ambassador, in any way demanded that we introduce a foreign language in kindergartens. And that's because I didn't say it was such a simple thing that she would say it, and I would open it in 14 days, and I would go to kindergarten and say, from now on, parents of autumn, type in a foreign language and we'll learn. Because that's what you have to look at in the vertical. And if the argument is that another foreign language is introduced into a primary school, which is a public school, then this argument is certainly also true that it is even more necessary in a secondary school, which is also a public school. But that's where this imaginary solution is no longer going forward, it's not dragging. And it seems to me that this principle that he was is not the best now. I agree with this to find a better solution. I would like you, Mr Minister, that you have an even better professional team around you, that with some other models for which everyone would be faced with these arguments, both position, opposition, as well as the cultural public, most for. Not that we are now giving ourselves in this area, which is still important to people who are still important to our survival in the European Union, in this way we are fighting and wasting time on this problem. I would be for us to be patient, to be ruled by - if you want - entrepreneurship and so on. I would be in favour of such a major intervention in primary school for you to think deeply again, because, after all, we are not stupid enough not to have any arguments that we would suggest not to accept and to come up with one such solution that would be acceptable to a wider circle of people who would bring us some good solutions and at the same time achieve greater social professional consensus and at the same time increase prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia. Being one another on the trenches now, I'm sure, Mr. Minister, your voting machine is an unprecedented machine in the world. We're gonna get run over. But the rest will be recorded in history, when it is recorded in the history of education, then certain reforms and all other things will be evaluated. There you will see who wanted the good, who tried with arguments, with some serious comments by Slovenia to ensure some progress, who believed blindly and blindly accepted some solutions that cannot be counter- arguments and thus brought Slovenia into a position that does not have as much quality education as it could have had. Our education is quality. If you just look at how many of our teachers have built the entire school system from 1991 to this year. Just look at the statistics. I will be very happy when those who have ended up following these new programmes and somehow at other levels, when this number of people with higher and higher education will already be somewhat over 20%, 25, 30, when they take over these leading functions - I hope - will function differently than we who operate and look at these social systems when we accept them, only on this fight between one and the other. There's gonna have to be another way we're gonna take this policy. I want this to happen as soon as possible and to the greatest extent possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to respond to the honourable Member, Mr Mohet. I'm very pleased with the expert team that works with me. That's not all that's sitting at this table today. But he's quite numerous and I trust him completely. However, this is often the case in these debates. In particular, when an ideological field is also placed in the field, we speak through each other. Arguments don't play much of a role. You've noticed that, too. It's more about measuring power. I would like the debate, including yours and your colleagues, to be even more constructive so that we can actually take into account more such comments. Even today, there have been such things where I expected total non-controversy to be found in huge, huge arguments against. But it is obvious that some of the questions are becoming a quick 'Politicum', the subject of political discourse. This is completely normal in democracy. However, it is certainly wrong to say that - let's say - some professional arguments are either offensive or demeaning. We who sit here have gone through more or less the school system where we had two foreign languages. You've had more. And it is right that in primary school, to allow equal rights or entitlements for our children or students now going through primary education, which I have said many times that this is practically the only compulsory institution in this world. It is right to allow them maximum equality and access to all the competences and skills they can acquire. And the fact that some have a choice language like other foreign languages, others do not necessarily mean that it is an expression of their desire, but it can also be a result of the socio-economic conditions in which they live and the cultural climate. In such a way that it is perfectly appropriate for all to be given equal opportunity to have some basic competences. In the field of knowledge, too, basic knowledge, another foreign language, which is conceived substantially different from the first foreign language. I would just like to answer the honourable Member, Mr Zagorec, when he asked about the legal grounds or the grounds in general for introducing this. It must be said that there is a variety of domestic and foreign professional grounds that are written in preparation in the introduction to this law. The European Council adopted a report on the Language Policy cut-off project, the cut-off of language education policies 2005. In 2002, he adopted this remarkable recommendation in Barcelona, proposing that two foreign languages be taught as early as possible. Finally, we also have the professional basis of our Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, which is directly linked to this concrete proposal. These are, say, one part of the expertise and analysis. Of course, good practices from abroad can also convince us that it is also right to introduce this novelty, practice in other countries, if it is largely accepted, probably not stupid. Last but not least, on his last visit, the European Commissioner also convinced us, and also in public appearances, he has repeatedly stressed that this decision is more than just and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Check-in is on. Mr. Aleš Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u197	Respected and esteemed! I listened carefully to this linguistic debate from all sides, and I was a little concerned. However, learning a language is something other than learning another skill. In fact, Slovenian is a language like all other languages. Here too is the famous Wittgenstein River: "The limits of my language are the limits of my world." This is where you introduce something else. You're introducing three small worlds. I'll be counting the Slovenian language class so we can have small worlds. Three little language skills. You're introducing a second foreign language to make what you probably are -- at least I hope -- you don't want first language learning to be worse. At the same time, it is quite limited and motherly learning has also been started, even if the same number of hours remains. It is about three structural systems that begin to intertwine, interfer, adjust and so on and mix. Those of us who went to schools when we had three foreign languages or two foreign languages in primary school - it is also said - English and Serbian, if you remember, probably also remember the problems you had when Serbian began to mix with Slovenian and the Slovenian intervened in Serbian. In fact, until you know one language well, the mother tongue is good, until it's your widest world - it's said - in all layers, so long is learning foreign languages in some way disrupting this world of yours. If these things are getting bigger, then we've got bigger problems. Your experts, Mr. Minister, could also look at the case of those children who are billingual in Slovenia today and have problems with this because they no longer know the language of their parents, but they do not know the language of their environment. But if you don't believe this, listen to one of your Februarys, how he's struggling with English because he's never stepped either out of political Argo or out of his dialect, because things aren't transferable. It is therefore very wise to think much more carefully about this. In fact, unless you want to, or if you don't want people to know, you know how to say -- it's said -- that they can articulate when they talk when they tell their thoughts, that they can be entrepreneurial, that they can go back to where we spoke. If that's not what you want, then this system of small worlds where people find themselves, as they are, is good. Besides, it's very bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u199	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary. I appreciate your gesture to defend your team, but let me make my views clear on what my vision is. So far, I haven't received any answers from your highly professional team to at least two questions. One is: Is the acceptance of a article in a law such as that limited the free choice of an individual? And this friend who was: Will another foreign language be introduced in all secondary schools in the Republic of Slovenia? Because if there is such a need in primary school, then there is an even greater need in high school. And how did you do it, and how, Mr. Minister, did you analyze how the transition from elementary school to high school in foreign languages will be? For I myself received this treatment that I had German, French, and Latin in elementary school. But in high school, I had English and Italian. And I was a victim of the system. And for me, I thought it was inappropriate for him to continue with the first foreign language for four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u200	Ma'am mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that in European policy, mother tongues are still put first and foreign language learning is put second. Let it not be blasting if any of us mention anything about teaching foreign languages. What we are constantly stressing is the question of the competence and number of teachers for individual languages, the distribution of foreign languages, which we will introduce as other compulsory foreign languages, not to mention a whole range of problems, which are also related to curricula and methods of teaching foreign language. Mr Minister, you have not disappointed me, you have referred to the opinion of the Commissioner for Multilingualism, who has visited you. Only I didn't find anywhere in the records that he was very excited about the compulsory foreign language. He only supported the learning of foreign languages if he believed in mass media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u203	Thank you very much for the word and also for the opportunity to answer the questions raised. Once again, as far as selectivity is concerned, the appointment of this second foreign language as a compulsory language in the last triad. In no way does it reduce selectivity in learning foreign languages. And the question on the other hand, how is the matter with the vertical and the secondary school ahead, you might wonder what it's like now that it's not the entire population. Now there are more problems, double problems, compared to future problems that would arise. But once again, I would like to highlight the following. Students not only learn other languages for use in school but also for life, we also learn to live. That's what this is about. Thus, no hour will be thrown away if, by chance, they do not have the same language in high school that they would continue to use. That's what it's been like so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The application runs for the next round. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u205	I would like to point out just one more aspect that we are not opening on these issues, but it would be good to open it. We talked about civic education, we also have domestic education in the law, and at a public presentation of opinions it was about patriotism of speech. And I wonder how the student feels, who has been constantly told how important it is to know foreign languages, and how much less important it is to learn his first language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that. If you allow the honourable Member to do so, no one has said so. In fact, mother tongue remains the first language and there is no doubt that any foreign language learning can replace or replace mother tongues. Please don't turn your back on my thoughts and words. But the fact is that matters are very connected, only if you respect and know others can you appreciate yourself and vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Mr. Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I suppose you don't think that there will be the same quality of knowledge if someone learns one language or three in the same period at the same time. I don't think so. If all his time and thoughts and intensity of learning could be directed at just one language, he would probably be able to achieve significantly more there than if this were to run in the same period for the three languages that will now be introduced. And I am in this sense with such a view, yes, so that you said that mother tongue would still be the first language, but I do not agree. Of course he will, but one in three, and for him, the students will run out of time because they will have two others. In this respect, the weighting of the loads should also be precise. Of course, the question of teachers is whether we have enough for the other language. And another difficult question. For example, in high school, I was taught two foreign languages, French, and German. And I have to say that while this was a compulsory part of school back in high school, we were taught French in four years by four different teachers, none of whom were romantic, none of whom knew French, most of them were taught a lesson that was in turn, just one day before we got it. Of those four years of learning French, we had nothing left but an evaluation that was generally not good, since it is normal that we could not gain much. From this point of view, we wonder whether it is wise to impose another language, for I do not believe that we will be able to train more than a hundred teachers, young people, for a short period of time, for a quality course in another language. These are the concerns which have their basis, are rational and from this point of view I hope that you will not take my debate as an issue of DeSUS's behaviour in Parliament, as you have stated, or have the right to declare, say, in one television interview. I mean what I'm saying, honestly. The considerations are well founded and it would be appropriate for you to accept them and to think about them, and perhaps also to follow someone else, not just your own decisions. And then, let the debate run for hours and hours, and the result will be what we have decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u210	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u211	Thank you so much for asking. I'd like to explain it one more time. Our own practices led us to this decision. We all, I've already said, had the right to learn in primary school of two foreign languages. I don't know why our children or current students wouldn't have that right. Foreign practices that have been and are still valid, and professional bases and recommendations if you want, but this is probably the least important, highest bodies in European education policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u212	Mr. Rudolf Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! When I considered both your answers, we could also look at the magnetograms, I saw that you took me through the water thirsty. I can also conclude from this that, in fact, the government in the field of language policy in secondary schools is chaos, that nothing is regulated in these transitions. And because I have not received these answers for which I have asked you, I will also vote with great pleasure in the end for this amendment to be accepted, and we will find one consensus and one form that will be good for this country and for our education.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I'm opening another circle. Mr. Ljubo Germič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, no one today is limited in choosing another foreign language. Nobody. The difference in your proposal is that you will reduce selectivity in a way that will reduce this second foreign language, so that this second foreign language will be compulsory. And here's the thought of why you should [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] make the decision you've proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Now I really do realize that no one wants to discuss it anymore. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 15. However, I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the four amendments of SD, LDS, NP and SNS. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u217	Thank you very much. There's not much time, so I'll try to be as short as I can. What I'm saying is that what the Minister wrote down is that he's talking about a training plan that, in my opinion, doesn't mean anything but a very clear discipline for children. I have here a proposal for such an educational plan and I'll tell you when I read these things, I can really only say, God help us. It is my opinion that a traditional way of disciplining is self-censorship. And lastly, you know, I also have a school code in high school that was adopted by the Minister of Education. Allow me only to read briefly: Article 13, "a student protest - a student organisation is obliged to keep a name list with the signatures of the students who attended the protest and to transmit it to the school within five working days of the protest." Minister, please! However, it is not the time for us to adopt such sub-laws and such laws in 2007, which actually allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Bostian Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I cannot believe what I am reading in the bill. Let's say 60d. Article, school curriculum. You give one school priority to choose your own curriculum as to how it will implement the facts set out in Article 2 of your law. The example of such a school was written that those who are a little impatient, hurtful, or any other type of school will be disguised. Hello?Oh, my God! Masked, marked! Do you know when that was? In 1945, hello, and before! What are you doing? We choose our friends ourselves, and so are you in primary school, Mr. Secretary. Don't tell me you haven't been insulting anyone in eight years of your primary education. And imagine they put a bag on your head, drew your eyes, and you walked around the school like that. Nonsense, big one. This article, I'm going to say, is just one last, and later on at the next point we're going to have the last one until we pay off the church's debts, this government that you can be on the government today. Thank God for just another year. You know, people are different, and kids are different. It's a joke, whether we want it or not. And that's why no one needs to put a bag on their head, not a mask. But it's the school that sets this plan. School, not you. I'd still trust you, but I don't trust the school because schools have different restrictions on how they're going to do it. And if I tell you another story. The last triad, one of the optional compulsory subjects: religion and ethics. Yeah, well, that's bullshit, that's a year's worth of stupidity for kids. But it's okay, we'll stop the believer, we won't have to pay him, we'll do it in school, we'll teach the kids at school what it's like to go to church, pick up closets and stuff. Mr Minister, in this article you have gone too far if we know that the children we are dealing with today are between 6 and 15 years old. Imagine what you're forcing them to do and how you label them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. By Article 28, we have tabled a proposal for four amendments and would first talk about the first. This suggests that instead of the subtitle "school curriculum", this article would be referred to as "school curriculum". This seems only like a language intervention, but it is a matter of strengthening the belief that the school has a educational role in addition to its educational role. I say that she had it before, and she has it now, although some enthusiastically advocate that the previous school was not educated. She was raised for values, she had art education, she had a lot of other things. The question is how these values are defined and placed in the life and work of the school. We believe that it would be more appropriate if this Article 6d had the title'school curriculum' and we believe that the first and second paragraphs could be deleted peacefully. For these two merely carry out what has been the subject of our debate under Article 2 and the amendment tabled to it. While we have proposed an amendment that has delineated entrepreneurship, we have talked about everything else, including the school's educational concept and whether the school is educated enough or not, but you can see precisely because we have already explicitly demonstrated in our debate that what we have with life, work and goals of the school to say is still contained in Article 2 is not necessary in this article. As proposed in the third amendment, it grows from the consequences of the first amendment, thus replacing what was written instead of the curriculum and introducing the term 'educational design'. What we will not be able to avoid, however, is that if the educational design of the school is introduced as precisely as it is here in the implementing act adopted by the school world, you will at least have to admit that it interferes with the school's world even in those things that are of educational nature and which you have instilled in us in the design and composition of the school world that we are wrong and that it is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u223	Thank you very much. This part, the curriculum, and the design is not a bad name, we have introduced into it on the initiative of many civil society associations, including professional associations, including parents. But if it's not as much fun fun as it used to be, let me read it, article 60d, talking about the curriculum. "With a curriculum, the school shall determine ways to achieve and achieve the objectives and values set out in Article 2 of this Law, taking into account the needs and interests of pupils and the specificities of the wider environment. The curriculum shall include educational activities and forms of mutual participation of the school with its parents and their involvement in the implementation of the curriculum. Therefore, educational activities are proactive and preventive activities, counselling, guidance and other activities, praises, recognitions, awards, types of educational measures and the like with which the school develops a safe and encouraging environment to achieve the objectives set out in Article 2 of this Act. Professionals and students and parents are involved in the preparation of the curriculum. [[So it's a triangle.]] The curriculum shall be adopted by the Board of Schools at the suggestion of the Director in accordance with the procedure laid down for the annual work plan. At least once a year, the principal reports on the implementation of the curriculum to the parents’ and the school’s world. The report is an integral part of the annual self-evaluation of the school." This is such a controversial article, which speaks of the educational moments of education and education in this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Check-in is on. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u225	Thank you for your word. Very briefly, Mr. Secretary. There is a fundamental difference between the design and the plan. The plan is mandatory. The fact is, in article 60e, you as a sub-chapter of article 28 speak of the school's choice of this plan. Schools will be able to make different plans, including financial punishment for students or parents. And that's not fair. That's not fair. All students must have the same punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u226	Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would ask my colleagues to discuss sticking to what is on the agenda at that time, because one of their colleagues was jumping around so much that it is almost impossible to argue because he has brought together different things from different laws and how we should then hold a debate in a way that will also provide some relevant information to the public. I'd ask you so nicely if you could do something in this direction. Secondly, I think that, in particular, the two discussions of the predecessors were in the best way to confirm how important it is to raise a greater importance, how important it is to introduce an educational plan, to make it one of the key things in Slovenian education, because their performance was such that, if I make a little joke, the lacanoes would probably say that, through their actions, they spoke unconsciously. That they themselves showed what would happen if education was not given enough importance. For this reason, I believe that this chapter is actually one of those key points that have remained behind in this debate, but actually represent what is going on for some reason or another, as it were, on the nerves. When it comes to education, there has been a lot of emphasis in the past on learning, acquiring certain behaviors, and very little on the other key work - education. And this is exactly what we're talking about -- education, values about what it is that builds a man. Where only knowledge comes without values, he unfortunately showed Nazism. That's what it says in every polytheological textbook, you can check it out. And that is why it is the education, the education for values, the education that will take into account both the wishes and the efforts of parents, the environment and the interests of those directly concerned, that is, the students, because all of this in this article is really written, read by Mr Minister, I will not read it myself unless it is absolutely necessary, so this is exactly what it is worth to put into the school system. We give more weight to parents, we give more influence, we trust them more, we express trust in parents and young people in education and, on the other hand, we also trust in the profession, because in the final form, the educational plan will be the fruit of the cooperation of all these factors. And for this reason, I firmly believe it is worth keeping this chapter, it is worth maintaining the curriculum, it is worth maintaining this joint involvement of parents, students and professional workers, that is, teachers, in the drafting of this curriculum and in its implementation. This is the new quality that we now incorporate into the school system, which is something that certainly our school system only strengthens and improves. For this reason, once again, those of you who have expressed yourself extremely inappropriately in some previous debates have in fact shown in this way how necessary it is in fact to incorporate this element into the school system and to give it the place to which it certainly belongs in a developed Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgainer. Mr. Zagorac - procedurally yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u229	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. My procedural proposal, I think I have three minutes to design it. I'll just start with him, and then I'll explain that there won't be any problems. I think, Mr President, that we should take into account the opinion of the honourable Mr Magi. A Grimes who may have been in an accident when he said that some people are wild and others are unable to prepare for the point. One of the SDS members so admired me and did not give me the opportunity to prepare for the point and to that end I would like you to support his proposal and to prevent any aversion, suggestion or suggestion in this House or attempts by government members to influence us oppositionally. And here I certainly attach great importance to him, I think you will be happy to make such a proposal, Mr President, and also to support and thank you, mags. Grims, that you've noticed this, this Member of yours, and I think you're going to have an even smaller debate in the Group of Members about even having to come forward. But if we move on. A closed circle of people, if I may explain my procedural proposal, Mr President, since there are no suggestions against Members, as already provided for in the Constitution and rules of procedure, how will you say a closed circle of people will determine this primary legislation when you say the influence of parents. I'm a parent myself, and today, don't let me have any influence on how the primary school system in this country is going to develop. Moreover, one of your Members came to me and even deceived me, what I am saying, even though I am a parent and an MP. Perhaps you will allow me both applications, Mr Grims, and in this case, I confirm this procedural proposal once again. I don't know. It replicates on a procedural proposal. You'll probably let him. The curriculum and the curriculum, Mr Grims, are two different words. One's binding, the other's not. Probably like a mag. You understand that, but if you don't, I'm obliged to teach you, but in a public way, not in a public way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u230	Mr. Zagorac [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u231	as one of your Members of the SDS has done. [[...]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u232	You took advantage of my kindness to let you speak, because what you just said was not a procedural question at all. Thank you very much. There's no replica on the procedural proposal. Anyone else wants to discuss this article? Yes, I'm sorry, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, you've been reported as the last debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u233	He must have engaged a colleague when he made it clear what the purpose of the educational plan was. Discipline and nothing else. And I strongly oppose that. Once again, we are writing in 2007, giving some guidance, not the rules that students must or must be subject to. We're talking about children from 6 to 15 years of age. You're nodding your head. I've got two papers here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u234	Thank you very much. A new round of debaters. I'm opening the application. Mr. Mag. Grimes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u235	Thank you. Given that the content of my colleague's debate was not procedural in any way, but in any other way substantively, I was misled because I considered it to be a simple debate, then I also hope that it is understandable that I have responded in a manner that is appropriate in accordance with the rules of procedure. From this point of view also thank you for your proper warning. The second thing is, I think it's inappropriate, and it shows total disrespect for the interlocutor, if you don't listen to him, or if you're even twisting his words. This is something that is not in line with European values and, as an interesting point, is the objective of the new school legislation, as the objective of education, as set out in this law. From this point of view I am grateful for those words, although I do not think they were good, that they were not appropriate in terms of the reputation of the National Assembly, but I thank my colleague, I am really grateful for this because he gave an additional, crucial argument and fully confirmed my words. Of course, I didn't name anyone before. I wanted to talk about things, not people, but if he recognized it, I won't argue with him in any way. I respect his opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Please. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. I think it would be necessary, I will say, to warn the soldiers that we are talking about the 28th Article of the Basic Education Act, amendments and additions, not talking nonsense in this House. And I have another request, procedurally, given that Mr Grims is obviously not familiar with the European guidelines on the consideration or integration of the religious community into primary education, of the negative effects of splitting this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Please, Mr Grimes. No, there are no replicas on the so-called procedural proposal. Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u239	Thank you. In this debate, I see once again one fear that I will not know what is happening now if schools have to draw up a curriculum. As the Minister has said, the curriculum should include activities and participation of the school with its parents. And it bothers me terribly that we only talk about how we will punish our students instead of talking about how we will praise them, give them some recognition, a reward for being better and more effective. And I'm a parent myself, and I don't know why I shouldn't have this right to help my teacher with some kind of instruction when he's working with my kid.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u240	Thank you very much. And Mr. Aloys Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Parliament is indeed a place of speech, but certainly not anything, but probably every Parliament has some special features, and so is ours. As far as this legislation is concerned, it is said that the law also regulates the area of education by means of a curriculum. I think most Slovenian parents support this. Most Slovenian parents, maybe all of them. In some schools, we all know, things have gone so far that even today in primary schools they already need security guards to actually maintain this school order. If we read this curriculum, which will contain the elements of what is stated in Article 2, then, of course, there cannot be one between us Members who would oppose it. Whether we call it a curriculum or a curriculum. In my opinion, it doesn't really matter. I don't know why an amendment like that had to be tabled, except to talk about it. But if we look at Article 2, this curriculum will contain a lot of things. From the fact that this plan will contain something about promoting consistent physical, spiritual, social development, not reading everything, then something about enabling personal development, then developing awareness of national ownership and identity, which is important for our small Slovenian nation, education for common cultural and civilisational values, education for respect and cooperation. I think there's less of that in our society. And if we want it to be even less in the future, of course it will be necessary to work on it in schools. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. I don't know why we're having so much discussion right now. All this is good for the school to think about and what seems most important to me is that a report will be made and that parents will discuss this, that every year they will assess what the school has achieved in accordance with this plan of written principles, where the shortcomings are, where the good parties are, where the best is not going. And this is parental cooperation, those who say that parents will not cooperate. Parents are increasingly involved in the education process itself, and since the first education and the most important education takes place and starts in the family, it is also right that parents cooperate in all of this so that we do not hang all of this at school, but in fact the parents are responsible for it. I must say that I strongly support this matter. I think it is right and I am sure that, in the past, some things in this area have been removed from the hands of Minister Gabra, when practically children have been told only what rights are and what duties are. Such a system, and it is not only a matter of Slovenia, but in fact the whole of Europe, which notes that some mistakes have been made in the past in this area and that today, in fact, we are being avenged through this educational aspect of our youth, future generations in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I'm opening another circle. Check-in is on. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's completely unnecessary again to stumble on nonessential things or to call it a "educational design" or a "educational plan". The point is, what brings up a curriculum or a school curriculum. It is certain that the school, together with parents, teachers and children, will jointly adopt a plan, educational principles of work, how they will achieve the objectives of primary school and certainly, as colleague Sok has already said before me, that the education segment in the previous period was essentially a matter of self-evidentity and lack of emphasis on education, especially education, and today we see that at least as important as education is also the upbringing of children. That's why I don't think this amendment of the opposition is necessary. I think it's more important than the word link itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u245	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would really like to ask the President that in the future you do not allow colleagues to use procedural issues for substantive discussions, because this way we can be very quickly misled. What my colleague pointed out and what I wanted to respond to was the issue of Europe's recommendations. And that we will all know what we are actually talking about, allow us to read one quote from the recommendation of the European Parliament and of the Council, i.e. a joint recommendation of 18 December 2006 on key competences. From only the sixth point, a brief quote: "Education contributes to the preservation and restoration of the common cultural background in society and to the learning of basic social and civil values such as civic consciousness, equality, tolerance and respect and is particularly important at a time when all Member States face the question of how to deal with increasing social and cultural diversity." It also stresses the role of education in strengthening social cohesion. Now, I would just like to ask those colleagues who have discussed so much earlier to assess for themselves how consistent your words are with these fundamental objectives, such as equality, tolerance and respect, that is, respect for the interlocutor. However, as far as the content is concerned, I hope that these words now make it clear to everyone that this is exactly what is fundamentally covered in this chapter and also in other legislative solutions that are before us today. There was also one indisputable fact on the part of this previous debate. Through these laws we also implement the recommendations of various European institutions, including the Council and of course the European Parliament. Their joint recommendation, which goes precisely this way, which we are currently dealing with, I hope, has been quoted clearly enough. If necessary, I can also quote some other points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this Article or the amendment to Article 28. I am putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 47 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.45. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I, too, made one procedural error early in the morning because I presented both novels at the same time in the introduction. So let me just take for a moment what I've already said so I won't repeat myself. With the amendment of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we only want to confirm the quality of Slovenian education. It is true that we are also partially interfering with the organisation and structure itself by giving the possibility of setting up centres, but in no way endangering the identity of individual schools. At the same time, we are trying to ensure a slightly higher level of respect for domestic culture, stress the importance of hymn and flag, extend the free extension of stay to the fifth grade, improve the protection of children from the threat of sexual violence, try to continue or upgrade the concept of private education, by stressing again, we do not want to change it into anything, only three schools that have been deprived of one small proportion of funding so far, we want to end the discriminatory situation and thus put all the participants in education in these schools in an equal position with others. Among the objectives we have added in particular two, which I believe will not be any major objections or problems. This is an education for active involvement in democratic society and underlines a responsible attitude towards itself and to its health and to others, to the environment. So also in some ways the element of solidarity that some have missed today. I want you to accept this, in particular in substance, complemented by supporting them in this debate in Parliament. I think the effects of the changes we will adopt with this amendment will be positive and will contribute to the higher quality of Slovenian education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm asking the chairman of this committee, mag. Grims to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. Here, too, there is the same formal situation as in the previous law. Here, too, the first hearing was already held at the meeting of the National Assembly and it was also decided here that the law was the appropriate basis for further consideration. Nevertheless, we have listened to many comments on the Committee and adopted a series of amendments, among them only to mention one which completely removes from the bill the possibility of funding per student's head, which in the last three months has been the most exposed to some civil society organisations. A number of other amendments have been accepted, as is evident from the material before you today. Please re-examine it. I would also like to point out that here, too, many relevant information can be obtained from the magnetogram and the debates transmitted, which were given in writing from the public consultation also organised by the Committee. However, since it is by no means my intention to push the debate forward, I will also conclude this report in this part. Here I think it is very clear from the writing how extensive work has been done by the Committee, but now it is up to you to assess together whether there is anything else to be changed in the text and which articles and then to make a final decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 30th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 25.9.2007. With regard to the amendments tabled to the supplementary proposal of this Act, the amendments were also signed by the unrelated Member of the Parliament, Dr Slavko Gaber, on 3, 5, 10, 11, 15, 24, 26, 29, 30, 44, 46 and 48, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Therefore, I will not refer to the MP as a motion for amendments below. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. Check-in is on. Mr. Slavko Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u251	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here we have talked a lot about the concept of citizenship, as well as about the concept of patriotism. I even signed my own time a circuit that recommended that schools hang flags and duly mark national holidays. However, what it says here is that if the educational institution fails to exorcise the flag in a prescribed manner, it is considered to be carrying out an activity contrary to this law, it seems to me that it is a wrong approach to fostering a positive attitude towards its own country. A country that believes that it has to write this in law and in this way sanction the behaviour of schools does not seem to be particularly respectful. That's why I'm not going to support it. I wouldn't expect there to be enough of them here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u252	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u253	Thank you. Well, I was wondering what the Ministry of Education and Sport would do with feedback on whether schools have lifted the flag on the first day of school or not, now the answer is here. To believe that schools do not carry out activities in accordance with the law, unless the flag is suspended, is a very, very strict and unjustifiable judgment for me. We come from different cultural backgrounds and customs. In Iceland, where I've been, almost every other house has a flag hanging, and we don't have the flag hanging habits as developed as elsewhere, and now we want to bring you in. Let us leave aside that we do not know what will happen to the European flag under the new treaty, because some countries have a reserved attitude towards the common European symbols, including the flag, but let us be serious. Does the Ministry foresee this, and I really want to know if this will include any specific sanctions for those schools in Article 1? Does he intend to withdraw their funds or revoke their certificates or question their programmes? I do not want to be cynical with this issue, but remember, honourable applicants, that the research carried out by the Faculty of Social Sciences, which was presented to us at the public presentation of the opinions, has found that the attitude towards the raising of the flag is something that we do not yet have as yet as a generally valid and necessary fact implemented. I would expect this requirement to become gradual in order to be introduced in a kind way, because we are talking about a nice school and we would not question the citizenship of those who do not wear the flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Check-in is on. Mr. Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u255	Thank you very much. In fact, Mrs Potrata encouraged me, in her debate, to express my own opinion on this. In fact, I would say that it's kind of sad that we have to write this down in law, that it's not the same school institution or a private house. You can't equal that. The school institution is an organisation established either by the municipality or by the state and is also financed in this way. Secondly, if a citizen does not consider it important to place a national symbol on his house at the greatest public holiday. It's his decision. However, if it is established that there must be a flag on the public institutions, then, Mrs Potrata, there is no doubt about it any more. They have to hang her there, whether it's one of the principals of one school per year or not. If he thinks he can decide and say, "No, but we won't play an anthem at this and this celebration." Because to what you've explained, it doesn't feel like much. Or he'll say, "We won't hang the flag." Because he doesn't feel enough about it. Then, of course, it is the country that can force it by its actions to do so, whether it suits it or not. In such a way as you have said, in some serious democratic country, common matters cannot be regulated. I understand that's the way you think about it in your client, but most people disagree. And it is true that if this is not so, it would in itself be conditional that, unfortunately, this is because the Slovenians probably did not have their own country until recently, that it begins to be regulated through law and then it will come into national consciousness that even after a certain period of time it will not be necessary to write in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. You've got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Sok, I'd like to ask you if you're listening. I was talking to the first person in the unit, I wasn't speaking on behalf of the party, and I wasn't talking about my attitude towards the flag. I was talking about what the research showed. However, I am convinced that a respectful attitude toward values and symbols cannot be imposed. How difficult it is to expect even adults to treat the emblems with respect, but in this Chamber it was often possible to hear you taking the dignity of the President of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u259	I'm also sorry that some schools, rare ones, need the law to hang flags. I am sorry that even the respectable attitude of the former minister has not been taken seriously and has been suspended by the flag. As he said, he recommended that they do so. And I wonder how the principals or teachers will teach at those schools that do not exaggerate flags or respect national symbols, children's civic and domestic education. Or we were fulfilling Article 2 of the previous law, which we had previously lost quite a few words about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u261	Thank you very much. It seems to me that in my life I experienced the most respectful attitude towards the flag when I was in the Navy on ocean ships. Each ship represented an extraterritorial part, and in the morning someone whistled, just when the sun came up, we lifted the flag when it went down, someone whistled again, and we let it down, we were somehow also connected to this country that was far from us. I mean, colleague Uhanov, if it's about who's for example, then at least it's for example the National Assembly. You know why? At state symbols, look, both flags, I don't have anything to say. But if you look at the coat of arms, if it's the coat of arms of the Republic of Slovenia, I'm a "pesgumarca". If you look at the constitution, what it says, what is the coat of arms, what color it is, and so on, we don't have it here, but we have a caricature of the coat of arms up there hanging. And at least, whatever it would be if we gave ourselves something and wanted to raise others, it would be that there would be such a crest as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states, which it finally accepted. I am pleased, Mr President of the National Assembly, that God himself has brought you here at this time. From my mouth to your ears, please. Now, as far as the flags are concerned. I think it would be good for the government's distinguished representatives to think about this a little bit more. I am this initiative of yours to hang the flags, support and see that you are also trying to give the country attributes to education. But in this country we also have cultural institutions, from theatres, galleries, to everything else, we have health institutions, from health institutions, or from some other institutions, which are of national importance and institutions, and we should also do things like this, so that education doesn't "hang out" like a polygon, but for the rest of us, it doesn't matter, as far as this is concerned, we should accept something comprehensive with national symbolism and with these things that are important for this. But it seems to me that this amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues, is completely superfluous. If you read it well, it reads, "if the educational institution does not enforce the flag in a prescribed manner, it shall be deemed to be carrying out an activity contrary to this law." The activity of the institution shall be carried out in contravention of this law. I don't think this thing as a legal norm can hold up. Something else is not in accordance with this law, not an activity. You know what an educational institute is. If you don't hang the flag, then you don't teach there, you don't do it, so if you want to get this law into life, then at least a little bit, or not the law, you should get it into life, you should fix it a little. But since there are no sanctions, then I continue to wonder whether our schools are really so low on trust that we will now sanction them with certain things. Or we'll send the principals and the teachers, who will be the light of progress in this country, to the police to hang the flags. It seems to me that this is debilitating to the people who are carrying out the educational process, which is why I will not vote in favour of this amendment. It would be wiser to withdraw this amendment or at least fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u262	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss Article 1 and the amendment? I'm reopening the application. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I would just like to say very briefly and clearly what the speakers have said, which is that this amendment to Article 1 has no place in this law. If you don't believe me, colleagues and colleagues, read Article 6 of the Constitution. Article 6 of the Constitution does not have to say much, which reads: "The use of coat of arms, flags and anthems is governed by law." That's the law we have. Whoever breaks it is criminally responsible. Pika. But what you wrote here is nonsense and has nothing to do with it. We have the Constitution, we have Article 6 of the Constitution and we have the law on flag hanging, on coat of arms and on state holidays. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, the activity with the flag hanger has as much in common as I do with Louis Armstrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u264	Thank you. Would you like to discuss it again? I'm reapplying. Please, everyone who wants to talk about Article 1 and the amendment to sign up. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u265	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope that I will get the answer that my colleague has tried to put before me, but there has been no response from the representative or representatives of the ministry. What does it mean to carry out an activity when we talk about hanging a flag or a bond, saying that the school is responsible and even responsible for hanging a flag at school? I basically agree with this, thank God, because I say that the Slovenians are not aware in this respect. No doubt! I support this, but I don't understand what it means to "do business contrary to law or article in law". Last but not least, I would like to remind you that in our country we have not only the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but we have a law, a law on the coat of arms, a flag, and finally a regulation on the hanging of flags. Why, then, do we define this in this law by breaking the norm or by violating it? Last but not least, what would be the offense or what would be the sanction for a school that would violate this article of the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u266	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about this article and the amendment? No, no, no. Then I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS, LDS, the Non-Aligned Members and the SNS. The application for discussion on Article 3 and the amendment to this Article shall be pending. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I expect, indeed, that representatives, representatives or representatives of the Ministry will address questions from Members and Members. I hope that since the Minister has removed himself from the meeting, that does not mean the silence of the organ on the other side. I hope that we will have the answers to specific questions. We're talking about the substantive amendments. And you know, I would like to point out that we have not heard so many times today that the Ministry or that the mother's working body has taken into account the amendments, that a large number of amendments have been adopted. Yes, but in doing so, the speakers forgot to say that the key amendments were omitted or disregarded, and those key amendments, which will make the opposition say, protest for such a way of working. Even when the general discussion was held or when it was confirmed that the law was suitable for further consideration, it is necessary to examine who supported such a decision. I personally objected to this, including my fellow Members and colleagues, because we know how misleading and how ignorant the work of the government coalition is when we try to form a law. And even this law is not ready, as the minister once said, as a triangle, it is said, in cooperation with all interested and professional partners - no! This law is prepared as a movement, and there is a very narrow circle of people who have access to correcting things. And if I now focus on a specific Article 3 and an amendment to Article 3. It's about setting up so-called centres. Yes, on the working body we have heard - yes, a guess of the opposition, what this will actually mean in practice. It is possible whether kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools and even colleges will be combined into some centers, institutions, factories. What this will mean in practice, a substantive response, a respected colleague and colleague, was not given by the Ministry. Here I'm going to use a sentence and let me read it. Leonardo da Vinci said, "Fight learning theorists who didn't confirm their ideas with experiments." And what's going on under this law is, I'm sorry -- that's exactly what's going on. In theory, someone knows something about how things are going to work out in practice -- God forbid you know him. There's no analysis. And if the Minister had previously referred to some European analysis, representatives of the opposition on the working body, we have not been informed in Parliament's debates of any concrete analysis of this ministry of how the law will be introduced or what consequences it will have in Slovenian society. There have been OECD analyses, but also other European analyses and strategies that are not in line with the government plan. He didn't mention those. Once again, I hope to get a concrete answer. How will Article 3 be established in practice?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u268	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u269	Thank you. It is true that it is difficult to discuss the conclusion of Article 2 concerning the establishment of centres that the applicant wishes to hear in any way the concerns expressed in both the professional and the interested public, but in particular the union has made a strong objection to this, but we are proposing an amendment to Article 3 which allows, as we have written down, the establishment of public institutions to carry out accompanying education and education activities. The proposal that this supplement introduces, we have three members from our parliamentary group as a special law already wanted to implement, and although at the beginning we had the feeling that we have understanding interlocutors in representatives from the ministry, it has turned out that our expectations were in vain, so we are again trying to table an amendment and convince you that it would be good if public institutions were established to carry out the accompanying activities of education and education. In our view, although such establishments already exist, such centres are already functioning, only that they have now been established after several years of operation, so that they cannot be adequately financed under the existing law. That was the principal's problem. A director is easily established to the centre, it is easy to abolish the legal personality of schools entering the centres. The whole range of things in organisational terms has also been changed from labour law, and this does not touch us, the only thing that could be heard are the economic reasons for setting up the centres, as the Government has imagined. However, we want to say that it would make sense, if anything, to set up such centres or services for accompanying activities as public institutions that should carry out their activities in a non-profit manner. I hope that this amendment will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u271	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Have a nice hello again. Today we have heard from the Minister who praised or expressed confidence in the team he works with and that this team is preparing expertly based proposals for the texts of the law, which we are then dealing with here in the National Assembly. And I wonder if a team that then has to change their suggestions in view of showing it that they are not the most premeditated solutions in the way they should have done their job in such a high-quality manner. And I do not wish, Mrs Škrynjarova, to be reprimanded to me today, as you have said to someone in public, that they are allowed to talk about education and that they can talk about it to everyone today, I will allow myself to comment on the fact that we are changing the content that you are assessing that the legislation already in force has provided quality solutions, and that practice shows that certain links between certain educational institutions have provided good solutions. Then the question arises why to change something that is already working well, and to change it in a way that is not premeditated, because if it were premeditated, then it would not be necessary to modify the text of articles with amendments, as was done by the coalition that corrected your text. This is an interesting thesis in the way the minister trusts his team, and then he has to admit that it has not been done that way and that certain content needs to be corrected. And once again it is a matter of consequences, so the change in laws will have concrete, practical consequences in life. If you had to correct this text of this article so that it is not possible to combine the centres just like this even the vertical, from kindergartens to higher schools and connect it to some centre, the amendment here has made it a little clearer. Of course, this clear definition is not yet clear in the response to the thesis that the legal personality of educational institutions is, of course, taken. For we are not yet talking about whether certain kindergartens or certain schools that will be connected to the center will be able to maintain their bodies to which they are going. And here deregulation at the level of rationalisation can bring significantly more weaknesses than benefits. Because in practice it is difficult to understand that some or some educational institution would be burdened with this and burdened with what you are talking about so many times, even though then in actions they show the legal solutions in the same direction. So when you talk about burdening someone, you do it by simply deleting them or letting them be insecure. Is the unloading not only a business activity, i.e. a pedagogical activity, and to relieve, for example, the director of organizational matters, but you allow the possibility of a discharge in such a direction that the director will simply no longer be. Mrs Škryjareva, you can nod what you think, we do not know, but it is that the laws are texts that must provide clear guidance and clear understanding and clear consequences in practice when one law is in force. And that's what we're talking about. We're not talking about what you're imagining under some notion. We talk about what the law says and what the consequences may be. And when you talk about rationalisations, then we can expect these rationalisations to go to some degree, today we do not know what this final rate is in your opinion. And if you're talking about whether it might not be necessary to have either a parent's world, or a sacred institution, or even a principal - of course in this case we are opposed to such a solution, which is uncertain. For if we leave the decision level to the founding act, of course, the solutions in certain founding acts may also be different. The uncertainty that this diversity brings is too great. Because the experiments in education are not short-lived and without consequences, for bad decisions at some point can have a lot of bad consequences for the future. In the argument of the bad decision and the bad proposal in this record, in the bill, we are proposing an amendment that actually allows for the idea that you are advocating. Of course, it allows this idea in a different way, which explicitly writes, how it is arranged, and without losing legal personality only in educational institutions. However, if there is this interest for the accompanying activities, as is now possible, we can arrange this by clearly writing the text in the law, if we support this amendment, we will also make it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u272	Thank you. There's still some interest after the debate. Yeah. Opening login option. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u273	Thank you for your word. Now in these previous debates, it has been very often that we have talked, unfortunately, past each other, sometimes simply because someone has debated or made statements when they have not actually been there. As an interesting thing, if you doubt these words, under both calls that were addressed to me, they are the first to be signed by persons who were not at those events at all. And some of the debates that are now here are exactly like talking to people who wouldn't be at a board meeting or anywhere else. For if we have all been in the same meeting, how can it then be argued that when it comes to these associations, an attempt to allow for a more effective form of organisation, which is allowed as an option, rather than an obligation, I stress in particular how it is possible to miss the indisputable fact that we have listened to the comments made in the previous debate and we have amended this article. In fact, the prevailing belief that the text actually allowed for the possibility that if someone wanted to interpret it maliciously, it would allow for the possibility of getting in a position to vote smaller in the course of professional decisions. However, on the committee we have adopted an amendment that completely eliminates this, which is so uniform, very clear that it is now quite clear that when it comes to professional decisions, these remain on individual units. As far as business is concerned, those options that allow for a more rational business without anyone suffering any harm, I particularly warn, only there are thought and allowed, optional, only permitted, the possibility of doing so in a given form, which is envisaged as an option under this law. In particular, just as an example, one accounting program costs quite a lot of money. With that program, of course, you can cover more than one unit without a problem. None of these units suffer anything, so no one has any damage, the saved money can be spent to raise the quality of teaching, so it is invested where it is most definitely needed and what it is primarily intended for. That's all the point of this text. On the Committee, once again, we have listened to comments and we have written the text now in a form which, according to our firm conviction and even after the assessment of the legal service, does not allow malicious interpretations, some of which were unfortunately presented here at a certain point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u274	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u275	Mr. President, thank you very much. At the edge of this debate, I would like to say the following. There really was a debate on the committee, but this debate was a force of strangeness. She ended up obstructing herself, so there was no consensus, no handing or anything like that. It seems to me that the debate in the National Assembly is the one that gives us the opportunity and the opportunity to discuss our views on this matter. I find this amendment very meaningful. Organisations in education and education are needed today - not only in this area but also elsewhere - to bring things together such as accounting activities, legal and cadre activities, food organisation, maintenance and cleaning. It would be very illogical, however, to try to do these things in a cheaper and more quality way, to try to bring about a situation in which a self-sustaining organization like now, such as: the director, the board of institutions, the parental world, and so on. It is a matter of great concern that such things could lead to formal decisions at the level of this institution of accompanying activities on matters that are now an internal matter of each school. For this reason, it seems to me that this amendment, which has been tabled, is not sufficiently clear, perhaps even more restrictive than the one now in the article, and even though the Committee on Education and Sport has amended it, I would say in the end: let's not go the way we talked in the past, to talk here in the National Assembly, because there is a great likelihood that even a referendum will take place in this law. Let's try to listen to each other, try to find some consensus "cum grano salis" let's try to find -- because it's barely a second treatment that goes on after a public debate, even though the law in certain things is closed -- some solution. If we do not find it now, we should invest and then accept in the third reading something which will not be opposed by the entire public to which this law is intended. That's why I would support this amendment. It seems to me that he will be cleared and clearer than the diction in the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u277	Thank you so much for saying that. It is really strange that many initiatives, which at first sight seem perfectly right, are well-intentioned, not least seeking to rationalize the operations of schools, then write down or write down so that they immediately give birth to a lot of doubts that immediately give birth to the possibility of such interpretations as no one else would want. That is why this amendment, which we are now discussing, is being tabled in order to eliminate all these fears. For, see, in the existing form, the one we want to correct with the amendment reads: "The division of powers between the authorities of the centre and the bodies of the united public kindergartens and schools is determined by the act establishing." Nice and good, but then let's ask ourselves who's preparing the creation act. Founder, i.e. municipalities, i.e. politics. And politics can therefore prepare, you have already taken care of with the composition of the worlds, such acts of establishment, where it may also be modelled on the Phantom Law on Higher Education, in which the academic autonomy of the university has not been affected, but it has affected the economic economy of the university and, of course, on the whole of the university - here you are also not interfering with the implementation of the educational process, but are interfering with the economics of this. The centre is joined all by order, not by legal persons and in legal traffic perform on behalf of and on behalf of the Centre. So, this is how you end the legal subjectivity of schools. And that might be good for someone, but generally not. And we also wanted to remove this confusion with our amendment. Why is that important? Look, options are different. One is that this center will represent a great factory of knowledge, but unfortunately not much of knowledge, but of how many will walk here. I understand and believe that you will not unite schools into large school centers, because experience and studies also show that this is not right. So, the second option is that, of course, these schools stay at their own location, but they're connected to the centers. What's going to happen now? One school, physically and very remote, will be decided where they do not have such direct contact, both direct information and experience on the needs of this school, as if it is up to the school itself, as if it is up to the teachers who teach at this school, as if it is up to the parents of the students who attend this school. We've heard before that setting up centers is an opportunity. Look, with these options, I don't know if you'd be thrilled if someone or not you, if someone gives you an opportunity, I stress no obligation, the possibility that they can shoot anyone, just as an opportunity, not an obligation. A very harsh and cruel comparison, but you see, that's the way it is with these options. And worst of all, these options will quickly become tempting and will be exploited and regrettably, not because of what these options are supposed to be given, not because of rationalisation, the operation of schools - I fully agree that accounting needs to be combined, that all these joint tasks and activities need to be rationalized - but because of something completely different this will happen, because of the desire for even greater involvement in education, the involvement of policies in education - so I have previously pointed out who are the founders - and also the reduction of the autonomy of schools, administrators and not least of teachers. For this reason, this solution may have good intentions in the background, but it does not guarantee it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u278	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u279	Thank you for your word. I'm glad we're hearing a little bit, because we're also discussing the centres a lot on the committee, and there's going to be a whole bunch of things being exposed that don't hold; so now we're going to be doing factories and we're going to have schools where there's going to be 2,000 students and there's going to be more violence and everything. Now we all understand that schools stay where they are, but that the things that could have been burdensome or perhaps not worked out very well for the schools are coming together. If one school had an approved half-houser, now if they can get together downtown, then it'll be one janitor for two schools and we'll figure something out. It must also be said once again that they can unite, so that this is an option, even in public debate, and in all public or many public performances, there has been a lot of confusion here because it has been set up as a fact; therefore, we will now have only educational centres. It's an option. Those who make the decision will make the decision. I've already told you why. It is very clear in Article 8a what tasks the Centre can perform, and we have clearly already understood that we will not combine some educational things there, but that the centres will only be able to carry out business tasks, i.e. accounting, administrative and cadre tasks, food organisation and similar matters, and are not taking decisions on professional decisions regarding the educational process in schools. In a public presentation of opinions, one of the principals said what he was doing and how much time he really had left for what was his first assignment, that is, that he was a teacher’s leader, and how the founders would agree. These can be two congregations, and it can be a congregation and a country maybe - and an agreement with the school of course, because I never happen to do what I did in the congregation and I know how we set up a public institution of primary school. [[...]] We did not establish it in the congregation, but we talked to the school and the people there. Similarly - I see things like this - here too: in the local community there are parents, in the holy schools who will talk about it, or unite in the centres, are parents who will certainly not be allowed to take the role of making decisions. Likewise, neither will the congregation nor the teachers allow themselves to play this role. And I think we talk all the time about how we're all mature and how we can talk and talk and agree that we're gonna find some smart solutions here and we understand that there's not going to be a world center of one school that's on this end and the world of that school that they're going to be united now in the center. The saints will stay there if they agree to do so, but the centre will be composed of some other people and will not represent 45 of all schools that we can join together or that will join the centre. I think that these options will be decided where they will actually see that this can bring them a better effect. I said before, half the janitor provides the ministry, for example, and then it combines, whether the school or the congregation will finance the other half or not. He may have been combined with kindergarten by now, but they were all their own institutions. And why don't we simplify these things and put them together where it's better to do what we have schools and kindergartens for.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u280	Thank you. Since there's obviously still an interest in the debate, I'm opening a new application circuit. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u281	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll say we obviously don't understand each other or some of you don't want to understand. Allow me to read how clearly defined tasks are, this is an existing article, which says: "The Center for the Association of Public Kindergartens and Schools can carry out business tasks, tasks of carrying out accompanying activities..." - then they are listed: "...accountancy, legal and cadre activities, food organisation, maintenance, cleaning of premises and so on." And then this article goes on to say, "and other tasks that can be carried out jointly for educational institutions united in the centre." Dear colleagues, what are other tasks? I had previously asked the question whether the education centres would maintain administrators. As set out in this Article, it is not clear from this amendment whether all directors will be managers and whether the educational concept - I do not know, I ask, a respected colleague or respected director of the Directorate - will be ignored. And, you know, I would just like to emphasise that the amendment in this form and content, as proposed by the opposition, only clearly defines the tasks of educational centres. It's not about anything else! It is only clearer to define, perhaps even those other tasks or to avoid other tasks at all, because they could be a disaster in the field of education and education. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! I think that this path proposed by the ministry and, last but not least, by the opposition does not oppose it, if I understand it correctly - it is a step that the Slovenian economy has long been "moved through". If this path had not done so, it would have been uncompetitive, inappropriate and did not give it its option, as mentioned in this Article 3, it is my view that it is welcome for local communities to be able to reorganise themselves in such a way and in a different way, to rationalise their jobs, because it is wise and wise to deliver all these services in one place, because it will be cheaper, more efficient and not least, procurement and everything else that is included in it will be more successful. [[...]] That's positive. While I do not see the essential differences between this article, which is proposed by the position, it is essential that the one proposed by the Government or which it is seems to me sufficiently visual and sufficiently transparent to indicate the direction in which such services can be organised within the centres. I don't see any problems here, and I support this because I feel like the mayor of welcome, so that we can appreciate some things locally. This is also the goal of the public sector as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u285	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So, in this context, a lot of words have been said about this amendment, but interestingly, the possibility of more schools being brought together into a larger institution is terribly disturbing for some. I don't know why it would be disturbing if it were rationalized, for example, accounting, also mentioned in law enforcement services, the acquisition of material, food, cleaning services - I don't know why it would be disturbing if we organised it more rationally. I just don't get it. Of course, the excuses are different, the point is probably somewhere else. All the judges around this and the main problem of those who oppose it is whether the head of this office will be the director or the director, or whether this director and this director will still have this position; you have not said anything about the students today. Why is it a school - because of a principal, a director, or a student? It's for my students. Of course, it is also important for the director or director, certainly because a good director, a good director, also depends on how the education system goes, but you all talk only about the principal and nothing about the students. Nothing about knowledge that can or cannot be found there. But some third excuses are being sought, and everything is about that. Today it was also mentioned here - well, the arguments were quite something, but one was very stupid - about some shooting. I'm asking you nicely about schools and shooting options and so on. It's better we don't discuss this! But something stabbed me, namely, that there would be an institution that has more schools, that would be bigger, that would be less independent and could be more influenced by politics. Now I ask you how this is possible if there is a bigger institution, where there is more knowledge, where there is more expertise, can depend more on politics. In fact, there is a smaller institution, a smaller school more dependent on politics than a large system! That's logic, and I'm not gonna ask you about one baton or a related 10 or 12 because we all know that anyway, and you know that's not true. In fact, the larger institution can be more independent, more independent, even politically, as this has been mentioned. The last thing I want to mention, not least, is this: you say that all professions are practically opposed to it. As far as I can remember, there was also a public presentation on Friday on this subject and on this subject, as discussed in this article, but I thought I had heard more of those who approve of this content than of those who oppose it. However, there is something that I would like to point out that some people feel that we are living in another time; that it is not only an expert who supports your suggestions, but also an expert who has a different opinion that has an alternative, and that they can be two professions, or three, or more, but not just one that supports such proposals or stands for your views. It's not just the only professional public or the only profession. And that public that speaks like you, you say, and that's against it. And now it's all professional public - it's not true! In Slovenia we have another profession, which can think a little differently and also have a little different viewpoints. And confronting these opinions can only be the right one and not just the opinion you represent and your profession - this is the only and saving one. It's a deception to the public, and if you want - well, maybe not so much deceiving us because we know things. The basic principle of democracy is that you have an alternative to having a different opinion. It has to be said that on Friday, as far as I was listening - although it was not good to be a member of the Chamber, so it was said that we should listen outside, let others be here, but we listened - I had the feeling that there were more those who supported the proposals of this law than those who opposed it. And there's something else I'd like to mention. According to the information we have, some who are sitting here have also called on some of this professional public not to come on Friday because they have a different opinion from those who sit here but support the government proposal. So it should be asked who ever called and urged him to approach the other side of the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. Germich. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I don't know if he named you. I haven't heard from Mrs. Squire. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to formulate my procedural proposal. Given that it has been clear from the implementation of the predecessor that he has no idea what he is talking about or what the amendment tabled by the opposition parties is talking about, I suggest that our services, when preparing the review of the amendments, add to each amendment the text of the explanation. The explanation is one that is also an essential part of every novelty of the law. It is said that the explanation is the one under which the law is usually implemented or not the last amendment. And allow me, Madam President, to read the explanation, it is very brief on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u288	Ms. Žgajaneva, in the next round of application you will be able to include yourself and explain further [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u289	But I, as I understand it, haven't had time for my procedural proposal yet, so allow me, Madam President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u290	Well, that's not a suggestion, please, Mrs. Žginer Tavš. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u291	I've got two minutes. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u292	Please respect the Rules of Procedure. You'll have a chance to discuss it yet, I don't know how much you've got, an hour, just a procedural proposal that's not what you're planning right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u293	About 20 minutes, but allow the president. [[...]] If I have 3 minutes to come up with a procedural proposal, I think there is also an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u294	No! No! Let me give you an answer right away. All Members will receive all the amendments, including all the explanations written by the proposer. What you have in your hands is just a review of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u295	and my procedural [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u296	Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, please, you will be able to discuss much more. Mr. Germich, you have the floor. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Germič has the floor. You'll make a procedural proposal after Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u297	Thank you very much. After the debate of your esteemed colleague Petan, he could say, "Not us paint! We can read things." And here I could join the assessment of my colleague Barbara, who also made that clear. Let us read both texts and see what we are talking about! The text of the amendment makes it clear that it is possible to establish a public institution to carry out the accompanying activities of education and education and nothing else. Then look at your text in the text of the law. A colleague of Žgajner's has already read this, or we need to read it 100 times to make the difference. I really don't understand that we are "colored" in a clear text that has a very different content. And don't argue here now that 100 is a profession or anything. Let us read the texts, and we will see how different content and then the consequences will be determined by law in the implementation of one or the other. Not "paint us" as if we came half-lettered into this middle. And here, clearly state whether you intend to take legal entity to certain educational institutions. For here you have written down that by means of an act establishing a centre in addition to the world of the institution it is transferred and brought together the authorities. And look at the law, the organs of public kindergartens and schools, and look in the articles what this is all about, but there's no unique answer here, there's no clear answer what you mean by that. And in fact, there are open questions that require answers, whether or not the process of abolishing these organs will go forward and at which level. In the amendment, we clearly record what we want to transfer to the joint agency: accounting activities, legal personnel activities, food organisation, maintenance and cleaning, you understand. And there are no nebulas in which you need nebulas or even a knife to cut the mist in which we move. This is a clear legal provision that you do not make under your proposal. That's it. And here we want clear answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u298	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With all due respect to you, to this well-respected assembly, with all due respect for the rules of procedure of this House, I would like to draw up a procedural proposal. You'll probably let that happen. In particular, the Rules of Procedure itself provide that Members and Members of the National Assembly shall not talk about anything other than the agenda. In the case of Mr Petan, the opposite happened: he was talking about everything else, not just the agenda. And here is my appeal for a procedural question: whether, honourable President of the National Assembly, you are obliged to draw attention to such ignorance of the honourable Member to warn him, to interrupt, to take the floor unless he speaks of the agenda. For Mr Petan spoke of everything else, except this amendment to Article 3, an amendment by several opposition parties. And in that case, Mr President, you must warn him. At least this is what you did in the case of a respected colleague of Žgajner's and in some other cases that took place in the National Assembly. But you didn't do it in the case of your respectable colleague Petan. I wonder why not. Does not the Rules of Procedure apply equally to all 90 Members? You know that Mr Petan spoke about everything else, just the article we are talking about, and the amendment of the opposition parliamentary groups is not, so he misused the Rules of Procedure and in this case you, as the only interpreter of the Rules of Procedure, are obliged to respect and warn Mr Petan as one of 90 that he respects it. As an explanation for your procedural proposal, which I believe you will not put to the vote, because you know that I am right - so you know for yourselves that you are obliged to warn a Member who does not do so, it is said, that there is no line of business - let me also tell you why. With this amendment, Mr Petan, if you have received it without justification, but it is the professional services responsible, and it is increasingly clear that the new centres have jurisdiction. If you've already forgotten to give it to you in your SDS professional services, that's your problem. Not the problem of the Rules of Procedure, not the problem of the distinguished Mr President, not my problem and not the problem of the esteemed colleague Žgajareva. That is why I ask you, Mr President, to stop Mr Petan for the second time when he speaks nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u300	Well, Mr Zagorac, you know very well that in the debate on an individual article and on an individual amendment, we always leave the debate wider, including on the law. If I strictly take the word of all those who slightly exceed the limits of an individual article or the content of the amendment, I should probably take the word away from the Slovenian national party first. I think that there would then be too much controversy here and it would not have achieved its purpose. Mr. Petan has the replica. He raised his hand. Please, Mr. Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u301	Thank you for your word. Those who oppose this law have great ambiguity - and no harm. Therefore, I should be allowed to have something unclear about your proposal for an amendment. I don't understand what's going on here. Now I'm going to read exactly what makes this amendment unclear to me, why I can't support it. The amendment is inconsistent with the part which organs are formed at the level of the centre. It is also unclear - it is not clear to me - what is the relationship between the Council of the Public Institute for Accompanying Activities, if any, and the saints of public education institutions. I don't understand that. If it may be unclear to you, it may be to me. It is two management bodies, both of whom would also accept the most important financial planning documents, and their coordination and coordination of all Councils would be extremely complex. This solution, which is proposed by the basic proposal, is clearer. That is why I object to your proposal because it is unclear to me what I have just read. I think there are enough concrete content and I can oppose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u303	Thank you very much. This debate today is indeed a big joke, and I am particularly afraid that, after the enactment of this law, there will indeed be a large VIC - major educational centres. It's supposed to be a problem because we have a janitor who works for kindergarten and elementary school. And instead of concluding two business contracts for a janitor, we're going to set up a VIC - a training centre with a director and I don't know what else. That's a very bad argument. However, I think that, given that you do not want to listen to the Council of State, which clearly points out that the possibility already exists in Article 7 already in force, which preserves legal subjectivity, is that the basic story that we are discussing here is the substantive formation of imprecise entities and the elimination of the subjectivity of kindergartens and schools. I ask you whether we will have OVIC municipal education centres or whether we will have provincial education centres or if you want to, why not do the same as in neighbouring Austria? In neighbouring Austria, accounting is in one place, only legal entities are no longer known where and how to determine. Therefore, the objective of this basic proposal and the amendment proposed by the opposition's parliamentary groups is unclear and simply wants to remove the confusion. We do not oppose the establishment of a public institution for these accompanying activities. Forming VICs, educational centres, which we already had, and this has not proved to be very successful. For a variety of reasons. And when we have maybe in a few years in Slovenia 14 or 12 or I don't know how many provinces, what will we have then - secondary schools will all be combined into 12 provincial education centres?Oh, my God! Because of the so-called rationalization. And then, of course, I imagine, which world of parents and which principals and how this will be designed will become completely politically subordinate to the current options in the province, depending on how we choose the election. So I think it's a big joke this afternoon by the government or the coalition, especially with arguments that you say it's necessary to do so. The janitor's not an argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u304	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u305	Thank you for your word. Associating with the centres is voluntary, not compulsory, but it is rational, meaningful, recommended because tax money is spent. Services are being merged, especially technical services, but not professional services. And how many times have we heard today: "Yes, how will you do this, yes, how will this happen?" How does this work now at high school centers, such as the New Town? We're not here to find the purple. That's what's going on! And also in this article, for which you tell him that we have written it vaguely, he says: "The compulsory authorities are the director and the council of the institution, the other educational institutions prescribed by this law are formed within the Joint Educational and Educational Centres. And it says again, "It can be determined that the joint director is for two schools." Once again, it is not prescribed that there should be one principal for five schools if they are to unite. But I'm asking you if it's rational to have one principal at one school with 500 children and another at a school with 40 children. Those who have 500 children must also order 500 meals or those who have 40 children and so on. Rationalization is here. But it's voluntary. No one's forcing anyone. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] And that gives us a chance to think in this direction. However, it seems to me that an organ such as the institution's world will still have an impact on these technical services. However, if institutions are established, as proposed by the opposition, I do not think that the holy institutions will be affected by their operation there. That way, we will not support this amendment of the opposition. It seems to us that the law is well - prepared or can be thought of as a way of thinking about rationalization.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u306	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u307	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! I'm not a member of this committee, and I didn't mean to get involved, but I would like to continue the two thoughts that my colleague has given me. I would start by saying that it seems that we are actually not reading the same text of the basic article prepared by the committee today and the amendment itself. Some colleagues, too, discussed how a future centre could function. My colleague, Uhanova, said that these centers existed. I myself know about such centres, and I have also helped some as mayor to establish, but at the level of kindergarten and high school centres. You know what's been going on for the last 15, 20 years? We only changed the names of these high school centres, but it was always in the former high school centre and the economic school was a machine school. She also had a forestry school, and then we had a former forestry school where there was fifth-grade education, and we gave him tractors and a forestry school, and a few years ago we set up a high school in Illyrian Bistrica. This high school center, which I don't even know, which one, fifth or sixth, has a name for. When I read the article and the amendment itself, I see almost no difference, because it is a contract. There must be at least two for the contract. So if a contract is to be legally valid, there must be an agreement of two. And you both say, for example, if I just read there in paragraph 4, "the division of tasks between the public institution referred to in this Article and the institutions of the founders shall be determined in the act establishing it. In the case of...... and so on, that I would not continue reading. Personally, I think that the fear or fear of colleagues who oppose the basic text is probably just a phrase that speaks about the subjectivity of the legal persons before, if I say that it was a single high school, a separate secondary economic school, a separate forestry school, that they will be united and that it will then be one body and that this will be led by one. I see a person here being rationalized. I also tried to take over the school’s accounting work as a congregation, for example. Do you know what the scream and the scream was? Why? Because I would know exactly what to get potatoes for, and why the price of day care in kindergarten is like that. And I don't imagine what I've been trying to clear up with some of my colleagues from the opposition: but I don't imagine a middle place where there's really going to be an establishment where now there's some big fear about some VIC -- I think my colleague Squeakl said -- which will contain a kindergarten, a primary school, and also, let's just say, a high school centre with four different education lines. And if I've seen here correctly in the basic text that there's actually going to be still high school there and high school is going to have a principal just like before. There's going to be a high school of economics -- she's going to have a principal, she's going to stay a high school machine -- she's going to have a principal, but someone's going to be above it, and that's the director. And the powers in the basic text and in the amendment, which is, all agree with the creation act. And only fear is who will then be the one in power to establish, we must go to rationalisation, not who will carry out this rationalisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u308	Thank you. Apparently, there's still interest in the debate. I'm opening a new application. Mr. Bajc, did you quote anyone, but I didn't notice that they'd be misunderstood? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You didn't sign up for the debate, Mr. Squeakle. [[...]] Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u309	Thank you very much for respecting the possibility of replica with the opposition members. Mr. Bajc mentioned me, and maybe we don't understand each other. Yes, it will be a VIC, which will not be a public institution for the management of the accompanying activities, unless, of course, the amendment is adopted. And this educational centre can truly become a provincial VIC, according to the text of Article 8a, as adopted on the Committee. Really. By law, the technical law will take responsibility for the establishment of secondary schools and will bring them all together in the provincial VICs. Then put a maternity ward in Postojna, and we'll have one provincial public office for everyone. This is the subjectivity of public institutions, which was one of the fundamental characteristics of relatively effective public service delivery in Slovenia. Therefore, if it is intended to organise centres for the implementation of the accompanying activities, then let us call it public institutions for the implementation of the accompanying activities. Pika! And it will be very clear what you want, not open up opportunities for landscape and different vics.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u310	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u311	Thank you. Well, we should talk about reading theory in the National Assembly about understanding the text. On the sixth page of the amended bill, which we all received, article 8a of the Education and Training Centres" - and the text as it is. Our amendment states, "8.a. Article of the Public Institute for the Implementation of Accompanying Activities of Education and Education." There's a difference, obviously. And what you have to say is, please, in the fifth paragraph, where you talk about the mandatory organs of the center, where you talk about what happens, if you combine the same educational and educational institutions, and what happens in another case. And that's inappropriate because you can't convince me that there's something else to do; if the same educational institutions are being merged into the centre, the establishment act of the centre can determine that other bodies can be transferred to the level of the centre in addition to the world of the institution. Please read carefully, and tell us what you were doing: you took away legal personality, you took away the possibility of self-forming worlds and other organs, but, of course, you hide behind the word "may". However, if the key word is 'rationalisation', it is known what else can be hidden under it. I wonder whether it would be most rational for the entire country of Slovenia to have one municipality and one mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u312	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u313	Thank you very much again. You know, I will say, and I hope that this time, honourable President, you will let me say the thought to the end that, after the existing legislation, there is a possibility of unification - yes, because none of the opposition has objected to it! It is possible to combine on a horizontal basis, secondary schools can be connected to the centres, and Mr Bajc has rightly identified this. This possibility exists in legislation today. And this possibility, which exists today in legislation, actually means that high school centres, joint centres, their principals have their own authorities, etc. The new law on financing education and education will, in a new way, bring together not only on the horizontal, but I will say on the round vertical; it is said, from kindergarten to high school. God damn it, if we're going to go to college. But the problem is that the amendment of the law does not preserve legal personality. This is a problem, and it can actually lead to the failure of the directors because the founder will decide on it. We know who has a majority in decision-making: the policy of local communities. This was also one of the changes just at the beginning of this government's mandate. That's all this is about. And the amendment that we propose in the opposition, opposition Members and Members, speaks only of a clear definition of the tasks that these new joint centres can perform if they come to them. So these new joint vertical centers, if I call them that, for ease of understanding. I didn't get an answer, and today I've asked for an answer at least three times. Does this law, the content of the article proposed by the Government or the Ministry, mean that the directors will remain 100% of the directors in the new centres? Will the directors replace the directors? What assignments? I ask, Madam Representative, I have not received an answer. What are the other tasks that education institutions will be able to perform? What are those other assignments? The current dictatorship proposed by the Ministry is very broad and I am afraid that political interest is hidden here in the back. What we are proposing in the opposition is nothing more than a clearer definition or definition of what are the competences of the newly created centres. That's all this is about. What are the terms of reference that, by chance, "post Festum" will not come to, I don't know, a different interpretation of the law. That's all this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u314	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Good-bye! When we are talking about an article that provides for the possibility of public institutions merging into centres, I think, at organisational level, with the aim of rationalising the business and all of this, and of failing to perform certain functions, certain fears could also reasonably arise. In fact, we have a history of high school centres that are not too bright and whose goals were political and ideological. And this is the colleagues sitting here who are the heirs of the party - I think their client comes out directly [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, I've never been. And I would approve of their discussions if self-criticism were found. And regret for what was done to the Slovenian people and Slovenian children in the past. In fact, I remember myself in some of the cities of monsters in the form of high school centres, where teaching problems began to accumulate, including educational and valuable problems, but they were built and organised with a specific political and ideological objective. I believe that Mrs Tavševa has fears, too, because it comes from formerly called revolutionary journals, probably the same policy. Look, these high school centers were set up at that time with a clear goal of value and ideological engineering of children's souls. The principals or educators had an extremely primacy objective or task, the role of the political commissioner - raising children from what they were raised in their own family. And here, if you are self-critical, then refer to these bad qualities and these fears and your own experiences that have been consciously placed. But these fears today, I don't think they are justified through this article's dictates. And do not abuse the human experience and experience of parents with those high - school institutions, centers that you so embitteredly defended and supported only in some way to raise their children so that they would not be what they were raised in their own family. The experience of those high-school centres is actually poor, sometimes catastrophic in these centres, because there was too much concentration of young people - drug distribution and the exchange of all the negative phenomena that occur among young people has been better organised. Here I think that it is only rationality and that organisation, association, not in the same location and not in the same territory, but that some services that can be organised rationally are organised together and that we also have a legal basis for doing so. But it is not here that you see the bad sounds that you have in your own head, which you have actually deliberately placed once, and now you want to frame the other side to have the same bad intentions that they used to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u316	Thank you. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u317	Thank you very much. I must say that I am proud to come out of the Bellies because this city or people in this city have given me the opportunity to think freely, to think freely, even to be critical. And you know, I'm so prouder that I come from revolutionary red magazines if you want. Also because she is from the same place a teacher, a professor who received under this government a prize for living in the field of secondary education in 2005. And this document that I have with me today would make a lot of sense for those who make fun of revolutionary magazines to read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u318	Mr Jerovšek, there's no replica to the replica. Opening a new login option. Mr. Gulic, please sign up if you'd like to discuss it. And whoever wants to discuss it, please sign up. Mr. Ljublješek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wondered whether I should sign up for this debate, given that there were no criticisms, insults and even disqualifications in today's debate. For the first time, I have called when we discussed the last paragraph of Article 2 of the Basic School Act, where we have not united ourselves, whether it is wise to write down to promote the effectiveness of students as well. We have not even unified ourselves in this law on whether it is the obligation of the educational institution or school to have the flag out of existence in a prescribed manner, and I believe that we will not be united in this article, nor in the following article. My assessment is that the debates are empty, unconstructive - to be discussed. I have listened carefully throughout this debate, and I have also read the text of the basic article several times, as well as the text of the proposed amendment. To me, the objective is perfectly clear, the content of the basic article. And I also fully understand the objective of the proposed amendment. And they don't match. The proposed amendment is intended to establish, I would say, a service facility. Service, human kitchen plus cleaning. And it's the manager, and that's what's going on. That's it. However, the content of the basic text is richer, wider and offers greater opportunities. They're talking about a training center. And if you read the individual paragraphs carefully, you see that it is very concrete and substantively defined; that the basis of the Treaty of Establishment is no coercion - that there are defined tasks, those such as the content of the proposed amendment, but that there is also the possibility that by means of a founding act - we know that this is a statute - define other options. There's no compulsion here, but there's some kind of agreement, some kind of agreement, what's going to be written in there. That those who want to unite and unite in the centres are normally not legal persons. After all, not everyone can do something for himself, but the statute sets out what are the obligations, rights and duties. And they say it's not clearly written. We just want it to be clearly written down. It is not true that the opposition wants to be clearly recorded. The opposition with the amendment wants to set up service establishments to clearly define what education centres will do - but it will be enshrined in the statute. But the statutes don't enter into marriage. But we need to understand that. The main objective of this is to rationalise. In fact, this is the basic objective. I can tell the case from where I come from. We have four primary schools in a relatively narrow circle, a few kilometers round and plus two branch schools. And when this law is passed, it will be of interest that certain matters are brought together. A logical interest because four administrators will be burdened with some administrative service. Probably not, although he'll give the marriage a chance for something else. And another example, in my environment, we already have a kindergarten called Medvoda, which has five branch dislocated units and one director or director. We already have it, and it's going to work out. By looking at these sides, I know that the opposition is always right to defend its own, but it is difficult in some uncultured way to challenge the debate of individual Members. And I support this basic text, not the proposed amendment, which wants to establish itself, but now I will say not the service office, but the public institution to carry out the accompanying activities of education and education. It's a human kitchen, service and accounting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u320	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u321	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true what we have just heard, but because it has also been explained that we want to achieve rationalisation and rationalisation, it is for me that someone is working to manage it in a way that will ultimately be cheaper. On the other hand, here in the explanation it beautifully says 'the new form allows for more autonomy', and so on. The law states, "the centres of public kindergartens and schools are not legal persons". Now someone who loses their legal personality gets more autonomy? I don't understand! I would be very grateful, and I would certainly benefit from the decision if the distinguished minister could explain this to me: how does more autonomy come about? And what's the point, what's the point? For, if you remember the introductions, I had already somehow hoped that they were really well-intentioned goals and that this change was well-intentioned, but it was possible in writing to raise doubts at some other trends, desires; that it arouses suspicions to turn things around in a way that politics could interfere with education, and all this debate in essence only further convinces me that suspicions must be and that they are justified. For, see, if we want to rationalize the organization of nutrition, maintenance, cleaning of premises, accounting, then I see no reason why, if we want to rationalise these procedures, why we need to dismantle the director, to set up one superintendent who will also be in charge of everyone in this school to be able to organise accounting, nutrition, cleaning, maintenance and so on. This can be made much easier, not with people's kitchens: with an organized diet for all schools in an area and for which it turns out to be rational, together. Cleaning is organized for these schools, which prove to be rational to do this together. Because of this, if this is the basic objective of rationalising school activities, then there is no need to establish, as I said earlier, centres with a supervisor who will then be able to decide everything else, because it has nothing to do with the previously listed ones that we want to rationalise. Unfortunately, you haven't convinced me with your arguments and unfortunately I still argue, but you can also call this a people's kitchen, an accounting service or whatever, that this is much more rational and that it leaves the autonomy that is here in the explanations. However, if I go to school, the principals of autonomy they have are taken away and transferred to one centre, not only in these areas that we rationalise, but in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u322	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u323	Thank you for your word, distinguished president, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! At first, I did not intend to discuss this point, but I was encouraged by the debate and the conclusion that many debaters either do not want to understand the meaning of these changes or do not know exactly what this is about. I would continue here, where colleague Uhanova has already pointed out that there is no need to detect any "hot water". We have a case in Slovenia that works very well in this form. It's a school center in New Town. It is the largest educational centre in Slovenia, in eight organizational units it educates over 3,000 students, over 1700 at work, meaning that it is a very large system. And if we conclude here that all the directors with whom I have had the opportunity to discuss support such solutions, which are already in fact underway there, and in fact this proposal in the field of primary education can also pursue the same objectives. That there is a large savings in rationalisation, perhaps only the following information: about 350 regular employees and 150 part-time employees are concerned only with accounting with three or four employees; that we are not talking about other services supporting this extremely large system. There's a really big savings here, but I think it's not only a key issue here that we're going to make a lot of money here with some synergies. Together systems can contribute to better quality and also better performance. This school centre is capable of responding to calls for proposals on various projects, both national and European. Also, the information that they have been successful so far in 50 projects from the European Union, or for all funding or co-financing alone, suggests that there is a great quality here that can be an example or an example to many people. I think it's the right way. Another thing that, say, in the valley region - we can welcome or support: the very functioning of this school centre, which is, I can say, a very good interlocutor in the preparation of the school or learning programmes that the region needs. Here they are able to prepare programs for higher schools, here they are able to prepare programs for colleges that are being established there, which means that this is a very large synergy. And if we now go into the field of primary education, education and education, I am sure that such solutions will also be a step forward in this area, without those perceptions that we can hear here, that this is about politics, that it is about here, that I do not know what the hidden purposes are. I'm sure that's not the case, and I'm assessing for myself that such a solution is the right one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u324	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must first ask if we are still talking about Article 3, the amendment that I will not do anything wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u326	That's right, about Article 3 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u327	Thank you very much. In the original, I'm looking for red districts and awe, and I'm looking in the amendments, and I can't find anywhere. All these debates and memories of the past - let's leave it! Joseph Jerovšek, colleague, because you can say anything over the red districts, but not about the fear of speaking - we were gone and we will never be afraid, nor at all such laws as you are preparing if you are going to intimidate us. Never. But Kat is concerned with Article 3 - I don't know that you don't understand the basics. On the one hand, all those who are preparing for this amendment are saying that there are no clear definitions, no records in the original, not as far as people are concerned, not as far as tasks are concerned, not as far as they are concerned, nothing. And with this amendment, we want to make it clear that the sun will shine out of the mist and that we will see if there is spruce there, whether there is beech there, or whether there is oak there. Not that it's anything, but it's nothing. That's what they have to say to me, but there's no need to write a law for that one. It is only one public institution that will include 13 units in the Rippers, and it will be as you say - 13 units will be under one public institution. Whoever does something won't know. After all, it will all come to the local community, as always - the state mixes it up! Let me understand! We want a clear, clear picture of what a public institution should look like, who is responsible for what, what it contains, what tasks and what definitions it defines. If you don't like it, colleagues and colleagues, say it clearly and loudly that you don't like it, because you don't have to mix what you want to mix, and we're done.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u328	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Since I have been apostrofied for the second time and mentioned, I must say that I think it is right that we should touch on this amendment to discuss or think about what can happen in such or different contexts, and that we are also aware of historical frameworks and historical experiences here. Once again, I say, physically united schools in one center or in huge schools, mastodonts, have had bad consequences, and I think that all teachers are aware of this and that parents are aware of it today. My Slovenska Bistrica is also an example that once they graduated two primary schools and built a new, huge, which is the largest in Slovenia and that parents and all 17 years of autonomy demanded two primary schools. And thank God, in this mandate we have achieved this, that another primary school will be built in this year or in the second year, and that we will return and infiltrate the normal situation that is professionally justified in the field of education. Of course, I think it would be normal for these two schools, which will be 500 meters apart or 700 feet apart, to have some common technical services or something like that, but not pedagogical. When we talked about these bad historical experiences, I have to tell my colleague that it's not true that I made fun of revolutionary magazines. But I wanted to point out that I understand her, sometimes a bit revolutionary, thinking and rhetoric, but these are some historical values that may also be due to some environment. In fact, my experience with this notion of "revolutionary districts" is as follows. I really imagined in the previous system that this was the "exposure window" of the country and the system, and then I was -- I had to say this: at the time of the TOZD there was a factory where I was employed, got the TOZD foundry of light metals from Trbovlje and I was on some residential commission. And we went to look within the framework of the Joint Housing Commission's housing situation, I have to say this, in the Rippers. And those workers were literally living in straw, and that's when I saw these people from these revolutionary magazines being abused. They didn't do anything to them. They left them in the hills. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u330	Mr Jerovšek, this is a long way from content. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u331	And for that I also tolerate and understand a colleague, as well as someone else, because these negative consequences of this revolutionary talk have lingered in our time, so once again I say, we also need to think about these issues, what was the purpose, what was the purpose, what was the purpose and what we were building for the future. [[...]] The goal must be that our children or future generation will have a quality school, good conditions, and I think that this article is also written in this sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, I have understood this more than in terms of moderation and reconciliation of this controversy. Mr. Zagorac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u333	Thank you, Mr. President. I hope you'll understand me too in the direction of complacency. Jože, you as the age of this Parliament - I don't know how many mandates: today we are talking about school centres, not shopping malls. So much if you didn't understand the essence of this story; but listen to what you're saying, SOZD, TOZD, these are shopping centers, not school courses, Jože! It's okay. Comrade Grill, - probably when he said what he had escaped because he couldn't stand by his words - when he was giving us this great school lesson, he forgot that we're talking today about integration in the vertical, not in the horizontal. And when he said, "I spoke to some principals," probably four of them, because the survey was made between primary school principals and such a merger, 17% support them. That means there's not enough support. Joze, 50 percent. Grillo is not, I can't turn to him, but these are all funny things, we're having a little laugh when we're listening to them; even when they're talking about synergy; synergies between principals, 17% support them -- I don't see any synergy, but I didn't go to any shopping center, not a school center, but a regular elementary school. So it's better that Grill escaped than if he was answering me now. If we move on. I'm surprised, Jože, to you, given that the government's box of brain trusts isn't here today, next to you on the left, there's a couple of them from the school centers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u334	Well, Mr. Zagorac, that's a long way from content.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u335	You know which one, don't you? [[...]] [[...]] [[Laugh.]] Excuse me! [[...]] It really makes me laugh when you defend this marriage - Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, I know your things are well-intentioned. But also Ljublješek, Mr Ljublješek, a respected colleague, said that we are talking about relief. He said if the four schools come together, now we'll get one of the four principals -- this is not a burden, this is where the three principals lose their jobs. I don't see the load here, except for the three that you're going to send to the street -- sorry, but I'm really laughing because you're talking this nonsense, and I can't stand it. And ideological problems about the red districts! Come on, that's a "passe." You always advocate that someone was red - I'm too young, colleague Barovic is a little older, is old enough to remember what was red, but it was quality; at least there was no nonsense. Shopping centres are something else, Mr Jerovšek. Excuse me. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u336	Thank you very much. I would ask that we return to the debate on Article 3 and the amendment to Article 3. Mr. Žnidaršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u337	Thank you very much. So, in the debate, there was talk about the need for self-criticism, and in this sense I accept it. I feel to some extent guilty that I did not sign this amendment for you, because, however, there is at least some hope of knowing what this article means, because the existing article does not say it. And that's why this amendment came about. I think it's meant to improve the law. For this reason, I am sorry, and in this sense, I am self-critical that I did not cosign it, but I will certainly support it, as well as all the others who are running in this direction, in order to get at least a few things out of this law because they do not belong to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u338	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, colleague Jerovšek, if the coalition had such a position in the establishment and fragmentation of Slovenian municipalities, it would be welcome. But here, of course, is the content, even though colleague Zagorac tried to turn it a little bit into a joke, it's serious, and it's actually irony and in mocking at the content of the texts that we accept here today, because the consequences will be serious. Today, it has also been said here that the goal in primary school will be 'development of entrepreneurship as a personal orientation in an effective action'. And in the debate, it was also possible to feel that the question will be how we will achieve this, given that there is little behaviour in the teaching lines on this and that there is no precise programme on how we will educate them to understand what needs to be done in order to achieve this objective. But I think that the Government, by way of an example of how the ZOFVI changes in this Article 3 of the amendment, shows exactly the pattern, i.e. entrepreneurship, because today we have been talking about entrepreneurship in this Article in the case of potatoes. Of course, there is absolutely nothing that I can agree that this change is as simple as my colleague Bajc was trying to say. And if this enterprise also shows an effective action, which is now being carried out by the coalition, of course, we are rightly afraid of how this objective in primary school will be achieved if we have such models. For if such decisions are cases of entrepreneurship and if such conduct as we now see in this law is a criterion for effective action, then the models are completely wrong and the primary school goal is completely wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u340	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u341	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am very sorry that Mr Jerovšek has gone out now. I was expecting an apology. In fact, despite Parliament's allowing for a lot of things, and such resentment, I do not think you, Mr President, should be allowed to do so either. On the other hand, I listened carefully to what he said, and I saw that, in fact, the amendment was supporting. The amendment is supported by the fact that he got himself into a former combination, school, and, of course, these were actually eliminated there from the mid-80s and there to Dr. Gabra's school reform in some way. Now they would be reintroduced again, of course through the side door, because such an open article of the law allows for all kinds of speculation, all kinds of associations and re-animation of the political procession, which goes on the nerves. Of course I did, too! And then in those red districts, when they were combined in the '70s, and they continued in the '80s, of course, there was a lot of good in resistance to all these things, but not elsewhere. Others, however, have retreated and learned what they now want to sell in a different form. This integration of schools first on a material level, entrepreneurship, as it is said, will then, of course, go to another level, even ideologically, this is actually the basic objective. That is why, of course, I support this amendment, which wishes to make it clear what to unite and what not. The fact that school autonomy is being lost in this way is actually dangerous. And then, of course, when two more comets like Bajc and Jerovšek are docked in this space, then, of course, the thing turns into a joke, into something that's funny, but it's really very serious and long-term. However, as far as these jests are concerned, since it is not necessary for each principal to order a meal individually, the minister of the Beast should order this for all students, if that is so important.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u342	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you've reached out to me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u343	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members. We have explained the scope of these changes several times. It is simply a normal process, when it is also trying to adapt at structural level to the situation in question, the fact is that the child is becoming less and less. On the other hand, the way and method of teaching is changing so that it is not in itself a matter of trying to rationalise space and forgiving teachers, whom I believe will be increasingly needed in the coming years. Also because of this, not only because trends are changing, they are turning, but mainly because Slovenia is becoming more and more learning society, that a relatively fast proportion of all those involved in various forms of lifelong education is not afraid and is not a key reason to change this. Here we only allow the school space, we only allow it, and how many times should I repeat this, that the primary levels of similar organisational forms, which have already proved to be successful, even at the secondary level. We have made it clear that these are management tasks, accompanying tasks and also some other tasks, which is a normal dictatorship that occurs in these cases. For example, a defence plan can be drawn up and other joint events of all institutions can be created. And when you talk about combinations, that doesn't mean, say, physical integration. This option, which we give, allows for the opposite, is an alternative to quitting schools or by force. This does not mean the physical integration of all these schools and institutions and programs and children and teachers and everything that can be done in one place. Apparently, it says clearly: there is a bigger alternative, greater flexibility here than in the current ZOFVI, which allows school termination. This form is much more friendly in organisational and structural terms than it is in existence and as proposed by some Members in this amendment. It is true that the legal personality of a school can be lost, but that does not mean that the identity of the school will be lost. Finally, we have good practice in secondary education. The expert bodies will remain the same. A board of directors is formed, but the remaining structure remains more or less the same. And also when you talk to some, what about now that the principals are part of the activity. The governors are the first to complain that they have become modern managers who deal only with organisation and administration. This time, they will have a great potential for greater involvement in the pedagogical process itself. I think it's a form that's given as optional, you like to forget, it's a good form. No one is forced to go anywhere, no form of organization is forced, only an exit is given, some flexible organisational structure in a changed situation. I think that's the optimal option. This is not about direct rationalisation, as some of you have tried to justify this measure. That's not what this is about! Rationalisation in this case is not the only or key consideration of all of these changes or this amendment to this Article in this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u344	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendment? I'm reopening the application because you're raising your hand. Check-in is on. Mr. Saiovic, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I think that this third amendment, which is fine, I support, in no way bothers the story you started, is just an upgrade to an article that is weak and incomprehensible. I must say that in this National Assembly we have adopted a number of laws in this mandate, in which we say everything we can at the time of adoption, but when this is to be done in practice, there are problems. Not to talk about the law on spatial planning and even a bunch of them, but the ones we then refer to in the congregations and want to get out of life are big problems. If this was meant to save something for any price, then I must say that we have gone to the wrong end of the story. We can save a lot of money with the patriots, with the military, with the police, and with the kids in school very little. I see the problems that we have now, which are similar to those with the financing of kindergartens. The garden was simply to be extolled. Why? Because the country has allowed wage increases under the collective agreement and because the food supplied by suppliers in kindergartens has also been irradiated by 10% to 20%. And then we're in front of the wall and before we're funded in the congregations to solve this. Therefore, any such matters, where we pour pure wine, clearly lay down the rules of the game, are undoubtedly positive and welcome, and I really do not understand why we would not all support this article together. It doesn't spoil the essence of the law. However, I fear that such a law will push against the wall within the center of a large branch school, and that is not good. He's not in branch schools or all that money. These schools have a lot of added value, in groups with fewer children they are doing well, even better jobs. And yet, the school is just like the church and the inn, I'll say - maybe I'd even put it first - an essential element of development and tradition that some rural people actually live. And I really don't see any big ideological differences here, but just the practical application of the law, which is a law that much talk about, improves. That is why I strongly support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u347	When I listened to the Minister, of course, I understand that he supports this amendment. Since all the arguments you are making are, in fact, much clearer in the text of the amendment. Unless, of course, you're really not for one big VIC: a large educational centre, which also has other tasks as it is written. It is something that people, including the State Council, today we remind Members of as an inappropriate solution. And if he's holding what you've been saying, look at the magnetogram, then you have to suggest to the coalition that you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u348	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u349	Thank you. I have nothing against rationalization on my own. That is why we have also proposed this amendment. Rationalisation must be designed and a public institution to carry out accompanying activities can be a way to rationalise certain things, if this is not a rationalisation at the expense of changing standards, at the expense of lowering standards and at the expense of less co-management and so on. This is where the debate could still be held. What I think is that we have left a completely empty field, and we have not said anything about it yet, is whether or not it would be wise to think about how, when we say that there are fewer and fewer children, we have made sure that this population is healthier to have better habits. And, Mr. Minister, you will recall that I asked you whether I told you how they were doing, say, in Austria or Italy, where 20% of the food they bought is allowed to pay more expensive if it's organic food. It's an apple project. It would make sense for me to rationalize, but what we save, to direct to a higher standard - not to drain money from the school sphere somewhere else. I think there are so many reasons to think about how to improve everything that's going on at school so that we can participate and we can talk, but I've taken the story somewhere else now so that I've achieved my selfish purpose and reminded you of these things again because we have ecosystems or healthy schools, as they are called, we have European schools, and I don't know what else to do, let's really look at what's going on in these schools. It would make sense, once again, to organise a public institution to carry out these accompanying activities that could achieve better quality; not to lower standards, not to amend standards. And here is the advantage of our amendment, because we are not talking about centres, and if they already exist, then there are, and the question is - given what is known for the good functioning of an individual education and education entity, a good number for primary school, what for kindergartens and what for secondary schools. But I can't land, I'm sorry, on what was just or in one of the previous discussions said: almost from kindergarten to college. We can't control this vertical in the government, and we have two ministries, we'd have everything in the center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u350	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u351	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, if we tried to trust you and tried to understand you when you explain to us that after the adoption of the text of this law nothing really could happen, it would be very good to have on the table a clear picture of the network of Slovenian schools, so that we would also have this picture on the other hand and see that such changes to the law as you propose here will certainly have no consequences. As a result, we will be able to witness a completely different effect, as you say here today, that certain areas will also be able to experience the abolition of certain schools. To have credibility and confidence in your words, this very important key information is also lacking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u352	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 3? I am reopening the possibility of applying, please and I would like to ask you to gradually all apply to the debate you wish to discuss, we have 13 amendments. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u353	Thank you very much. I still didn't understand what it was like to lose a legal entity. Are we getting autonomy? But let's leave it at that! Also, this rationalization doesn't stop me. If I'm trying to rationalise something, then I'm going to set up services that are service to those who have to help. Well, we need service, not command over all of it. This is what's happening now. In our amendment, we propose rationalisation in such a way as to set up a service, and you want to take over the command. And then I will answer you instead of what rationalisation is: rationalisation is that politics will not have to worry about setting up five principals, but just one superintendent. And then there is really rationalisation, but not the rationalisation that would be in good Slovenian education, but the rationalisation that would make it easier for the politicians to get involved, even easier to control and influence Slovenian education. And that's not a good rationalization.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u354	Thank you. Any other interest after the discussion on Article 3? [[No, no, ……]] I then put to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 5 and the amendment. Mrs. Potrata, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u355	Thank you. I speak in favour of the amendment tabled, which proposes deleting paragraphs 1 and 2, which means that if we look at the text of the law, this is paragraphs 2 and 3. Of course, one can wonder why we are proposing to delete and thereby introduce the original doctrine. This should be read in the text of the competences of the professional worlds. Such a doctrine as it is now opens up a number of foxes, where certain things can be introduced. We can now discuss trees and forests again, but given that this law governs not only kindergartens and schools, but also secondary and higher vocational education, it is very important what are the competences of the professional and vocational education board, which is now receiving under the new law, as is now established, a decisive word in making decisions related to general education in these programmes. And it is precisely because there are professional councils, competent professional councils, those who decide on the appropriateness of individual programmes, on the appropriateness of achieving the same or equivalent standards or then in the third paragraph of the minimum standards, and because the professional council for general education now has only the opportunity to give an opinion, but the opinion knows how - I also always have an opinion on all things and then I am voted on. So this is a very, very open thing, and we need to be careful about it, and we think that this current dictatorship leaves too much open stuff where individual programs can learn about the right ones, and this is not always the case. I must admit that the last decision of the General Education Council, which has agreed smoothly to the reduction of the hours of Slovenian and physical education in the Catholic school programme, leaves me as a Slovenian in great shame, how can we base something that is in conflict with the many years of my profession's efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u356	Thank you. Any interest since the debate on Article 5? It's not. Then we move on to Article 10. I'm putting him up for debate. To this article also the amendment of the groups of Members: SD, LDS, NP and SNS. I'm opening an application for discussion. Check-in is on. There's no sign-in. I conclude the debate on Article 10. We turn to Article 11 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, LDS, NP and SNS. I'm opening the application. Mrs. Potrata, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u357	Thank you. I'm sorry, I was recognized for applying to the previous article, but only so much so that I could have a calm conscience. The considerations concerning the provisions relating to the expert councils may also be passed on to Article 10. Now it's 11 o'clock. In the amendment, it is proposed that the maximum number of children or pupils, apprentices, students or students of a higher school should be set for the examination, which may be included by the relevant type of educational institution or entered in accordance with standards and standards. This amendment seems particularly important to me at a time when the Ministry of Education and Sport is also considering transfers of powers from the state to the regional level, where certain areas or levels of education of the relevant region will be considered. And given how we always want to be rational, if the ceiling isn't set, there's only the sky above the ceiling. And I think it's necessary that things are still fixed that the number of participants in education is maximized, it seems to me that it is determined at the highest possible rate, because then they are still advertised, and it would be possible to do so with such derogations, as we have done in the Kindergarten Act, where we have increased, that it can retreat for 2 participants up and then you can first point your finger, and then you can say it because of rationalization so, then they say no, well, because now it turns out that it's going to become a general standard and then we can move slowly forward. I stress that the highest possible number of participants should therefore be ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u358	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 11. I am opening the debate on Article 15 and the amendment of SD, LDS and NP to this Article. I'm opening the application. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u359	This amendment is essentially linked to a lot of things, as we said at the time of Article 3. However, I expect him to receive support as they did in Article 3, because there is a clearer definition of how they are being financed, how they are being transferred, and we think that, because of everything we have regulated so far, this issue should be addressed with our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u360	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. I am opening the debate on Article 24 and on the two amendments. One was proposed by SD, LDS, NP and SNS, and the other by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 24 and the amendments to this Article. There's no sign-in. I conclude paragraph 24. Excuse me? Here you go, Mrs. Potter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u361	Thank you. Sorry, I got a little distracted. Here we propose to article 24 of the amendment, which would also add "financially" at the end of paragraph 1 for the word "technically". It is said that "technical and financial support for the functioning of the parental world is provided by kindergarten or school". This is possible from the institution. This means that a kindergarten or a parent’s world could work better, and we feel that this is also in line with what parents have proposed in recent discussions in this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u362	Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and two amendments. One was proposed by SD, LDS, NP and SNS, and the other only by SD. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u363	Thank you very much. It is only this, my fellow Members and colleagues, but I must say that I am in principle in favour of the Ministry's decision to extend free of charge protection in the fifth grade, because now, as far as I know, parents have to pay half of it, it is 50%. But I ask, and this matter has already been given within the framework of the parent's working body, why simply not extend this right to the sixth grade so that students in the sixth grade can also attend the extended stay free of charge. That's what this is all about. And if we rationalize costs with another amendment or article, it's true that we're merging kindergartens, schools, high schools, even higher schools into centers, with a view to rationalization, we'll save ourselves somewhere else. Put it where it would be very meaningful and considerate to give. Let me remind you that on the working body, the Minister or I think that Mrs Director of the Directorate was operating on data from an eight-year-old. It is said how many sixth-grade students attend extended stay. I would like to remind or remind you that we have a new nine-year-old, and that students are one year younger. Therefore, it would make sense to provide a free extended stay for sixth-class students as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u364	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u365	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I join this opinion myself and see no reason why we should not have the same criteria or protection for primary school students in the first and second years. I don't see and there's no criteria for why it would be necessary in the fifth grade and there's no criteria for that in the sixth grade. We know that the teaching system, as well as the way it was taught in the last triad, is changing slightly, and students are also slightly older. However, I think that if we are to receive a variety of development programmes with our mouths full of money and more money for a better school, then the proposed Article 26, which we are currently considering, is to be amended by Article 81 of the basic law by reducing the level of funding from the State budget after unnecessary public schools. I think that, for this time, this is unsustainable, unnecessary and I think that who thinks about what is written in the middle of the document, that education is one of Slovenia's fundamental priorities, then cannot agree to such a 26th Article and it would be good for these amendments to be incorporated into the law we are considering.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u366	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u367	Thank you. I intend to talk about two things, namely, I am joining a colleague and a colleague who spoke about the fact that we cannot accept the suspension of extended stay in the sixth grade. For this reason, I do not wish to be dissipated by the period for which the exemption is granted. No matter what. We're talking about the safety issue at school. The best security is ensured by organised activities in school. Not the guards and the cameras. Therefore, according to the specifications of the working time of the parents, the activities that are taking place, it seems to me that there are also options for free decision on what the student will go beyond regular school work, but what the school should offer is at least that children have the option to stay in the sixth grade even when they are finishing the second triad. We also find these proposals completely unfounded, particularly from the point of view of development psychology and some other things that could also be mentioned. I would like to look at another amendment, which is the amendment of the Social Democrats Group, which deals with the issue of investment in schools with an adapted programme. Indeed, these schools may be due to the establishment of local communities, but it would be appropriate for this type of school to take over the country. I think, Mr. Minister, [[Yeah, he's not here.]] However, in order to be able to listen to at least this amendment, the Secretary of State with its colleagues, given that the treatment of the specific segment of this spectrum, where we are talking about children with special needs, and schools with an adapted programme, in order to move this to state funding, could, in any event, transfer investment to this level. I particularly mention this because it has not been possible to ignore the warnings of teachers and teachers in this area that the legislation we adopt often interferes with the standards and treatment of children with special needs or in schools with an adapted programme. I hope that along with all the other amendments, this one will win your affection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u368	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 26? [[No, no, ……]] I then put to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS. I'm opening the application. There's no sign-in. I then put to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS. I'm opening the application. The application for Article 30 shall be pending. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u369	Thank you so much for saying that. And here's that article in the law that I think is one of the most controversial, and I'm not going to say it's the most controversial. I believe, however, that they wanted to manipulate the public at the Ministry and also in the government coalition several times at the expense of this article. This is the article that foresees or legitimizes 100% financing of private schools. And you know, I'm reading in the paper today, when my colleague Grims, and I'm going to say, he's deceiving again because he says that the government wants to give this article a choice for parents because they have the same rights, and so on, they're equal and so on. No, look, we're talking about private, private primary schools. If we legalize such a text or text as proposed by the Ministry, then we will actually come to our country where we have a tradition and I will say that a good tradition of public free education is at a stage when we finance or build on the quality of private primary schools. Why am I stressing private? Because there is another funding behind private primary schools, double capital is called. In the first place is the interest of a private person who will decide to have a primary school and, on the other hand, the country will not only finance a private school 100%. Even more. This article provides an opportunity for schools, private schools, to run for funding for space equipment, and so on, if the Minister so decides. But I believe that everyone in this country knows the intentions of this minister. Therefore, I say, it is not possible, indeed, to break down the public system of primary education, but it would be more reasonable to build on quality and to correct what has been bad so far, but not always to refer only to the past government, the past minister and so on. But to fix mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u370	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u371	Thank you. We are in an article that has not been understood for a moment that a coalition of 100% private education funding with a concession would withdraw. At least that way, we have nothing to be sure of. What is being corrected in the proposal is that 100% of funding for music schools is now envisaged. Now, of course, this is where the deception that has been announced as a major achievement in connection with the student’s funding is lost. As funding by participant is only released for primary schools, it remains for other schools. Even where there is talk about schooling not being and someone has given a vehement wave to the fact that schooling is not going to be, it is clear in article 93 that there are elements to the fact that parental contributions, whatever they are called, are introduced, and these are indirect tuitions. What we want to achieve with this amendment is to arrange for funding as has been ensured for private schools with a public programme so far. I don't know why those who talk about discrimination between private schools with concessions don't want to discriminate against those who are 100% funded but among those who are 85% funded. It is a fact that, at different times with different purposes, such participation in public funds has been ensured. And it's not written anywhere that we should go to the upper limit. And I will illustrate with a case, Mr. Secretary-General, which you yourself know well enough. For example, a private music school was set up to receive under this law when it is adopted, not to say if, but when it is adopted, because I know it will be adopted, 100% of the funds. They will use instruments from the public music school across the street, with 1/5 of the obligation to teach teachers from the public music school. But this isn't the end of the story, because I read in the paper that this private music school is going to be directly involved in liturgy. Of course, because that's what I'm saying, my statements will attribute an ideological omen and I will be reintroduced into the cultural struggle. But this is exactly what can be financed from public funds. Certainly not what is the right choice of an individual. Definitely. The rightful choice of an individual. However, it is no longer justified when this is financed from public funds, since the choice is such in this context, some at the level of public education, public programmes are ensured and if an individual decides on an additional element, that additional element is likely to be taken care of on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u372	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u373	Thank you very much. In our Group, we really believe that 100% of private school funding is simply irrational and illogical in the sense that the Minister on the one hand is trying to rationalise funds in public schools and is introducing a whole range of measures that result in this rationalisation and, on the other hand, we obviously have more than enough money to increase private school funding from 85% to 100%. This is particularly illogical under conditions, when, say, the number of children in Slovenia practically halved, from over 36 000 years ago, some over 18,000 today. Under these conditions, introducing additional private schools simply means breaking up a public network of schools, which, at least in my opinion, works relatively well. Of course, someone will say that this law does not introduce private schools. But if we take a good look at this article, we can see that it actually means raising funds from 85% to 100% funding private school programmes to give great benefits to private schools. Simply because this article also gives rise to gross dishonesty. You state below that private schools do not, for example, have the means of investment, investment maintenance and equipment, and then, somewhere below, reads: "Despite the second paragraph of this Article, private schools may participate in school equipment programmes in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister." Thus, investment in equipment is not possible unless the Minister decides otherwise by means of the rules of procedure. I think it would be right to be honest, but to write things more transparently. As far as this is concerned, Mr. Minister, this basic intellectual honesty here is not an honor. As far as the other conditions set out in this article are concerned, it should also be noted that it is unclear that those who say often, that there is some inequality, that parents who give children to private schools should pay extra tuition and they will not have to do so now. I simply don't believe it either, because the actual article is written so that this tuition will be easily hidden under "additional contributions for above-standard" or something like that. The article is so loosely written that it is entirely possible. This way I can fully imagine situations where private schools will be further financed by private funds in the form of contributions and then we will have this situation that our directors are alerting us to, for example, in Shentvid, where you have a public school that works well, but obviously there is no money for equipment or for adequate investment maintenance. The director does not have enough resources, but on the other hand there is a neighbouring school, which is private, and I will not now tell you who the owner is, so that you will not talk again about the cultural fight, where, of course, the money is more than enough. Who, then, is in a discriminatory position here, if we get that private schools are being financed 100 percent while private schools still have private capital, at the same time there is the possibility of additional parental contributions to the standard. From this point of view, it is not a matter of decommissioning public schools and introducing some additional private schools with a certain omen, I find it incorrect. That is why we are also trying to ensure that this well-functioning public education system is maintained by our amendments. I personally believe that this public education system, which is established, is more than appropriate for Slovenia to work well and that it allows children to develop those values that we consider not only as a society that parents consider appropriate. In short, no one imposes anything on them. What will be the consequences of allowing 100% private school funding, so that additional capital can be invested in these private schools, that there can be superstandard contributions to the standard and the like, but I can imagine and can honestly say that I am afraid that a whole range of religious schools will arise, not necessarily that only the RDC can establish other religious divisions such private schools, and I am sure they will. But what kind of company are we gonna get in this case? We will get a network of public schools and a network of private schools, which will sometimes have very questionable goals. I don't know why you decided that in the absence of funds that are obviously in education, I hardly know a principal who would say that there are enough resources in education. If not, Mr. Minister, I know a whole range of classrooms in primary schools where they're still drawing beautifully with chalk. Who's gonna say, "Well, that's fine." But at least in the upper classes, there are already some other tools that are used and that are significantly more appropriate. I must say that if you say that money is enough for private schools to be able to finance themselves even 100%, then I must say that I’m surprised whether they’re telling the truth to all those who work in school, or whether you’re telling the untruth or is simply the purpose of decommissioning public education. And I would be very happy if someone could say that our proposals for amendments are not appropriate and would argue as well. But first he will have to explain why in the situation where the number of children has fallen by half in Slovenia, we need additional private schools. And then he'll have to explain right away that this doesn't mean the decommissioning of a public school network. Of course, this will not work, so I think that if someone is making an ideology, the Ministry is driving it down in this area with this proposal. And I must say that neither are the true claims of those who say that Slovenia is a major feature of a small proportion of private schools in the European Union. There is a whole range of countries where this share is also very low and there is a whole range of countries where data shows that the public network of schools works very well, and you can also take Scandinavian countries in case you want. So I must say that in this area, as far as this article is concerned, we have been very disappointed in our Group of Members, and we have also supported an amendment to correct what to do, but as we say, you obviously intend to set up a network of private schools here. In some ways, I wouldn't mind if these schools were elite or anything else, if they were actually financed by private funds. It bothers me, however, that now there will be discrimination between children, that those who will go to public schools will have one bag of money that will be limited, and others who will have private schools where 100% of the programmes will be financed with the money of all taxpayers, and also a special bag from which additional equipment and investment in these schools can be financed. And tell me which schools are going to be if you want what looks like, they look better, and they'll have better equipment. If that's not discrimination, then I don't know what discrimination is. However, to argue in some current situation that parents do not have an impact on the way their children are raised by school, that they have a constitutional right to raise their children and to educate themselves in accordance with the values they have themselves, of course this is also possible under the public education system. Parents do participate in worlds that play an important role in decision-making, so I really do not know what this article serves. To what else would it be like simply to introduce a whole range of private schools to the detriment of the public school network? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u374	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, the Minister's argument that there are inequalities is in the right place. When we adopted this school legislation, the father was Dr. Slavko Gaber, who is sitting here, but we acted so that some schools with concessions received 100% things and others 85%, perhaps also with the aim of establishing relative peace in this area, and no one opposed such a solution in the law. However, now that the market economy has been on a large scale, such an equalisation of schools, as far as funding is concerned, is out of the question for me, because, to a large extent, it will result in the fact that we will have what our colleague Lakhovnik has already said, totally unequal conditions in the functioning of such schools and, as a result, if some schools can set a better standard, of course, the pressure of people who have more money or any other connection will be placed on such schools. As a student of the former classical high school, I know how these things went or how these things went. If we want private schools with concessions and public schools to be competitive, then we must at least have a difference in funding here, because I fully agree that the founder of a private school with a concession certainly has some goals, he certainly has some purpose to achieve with education. In addition to providing public education, it pursues other objectives and is willing to further finance, either as a sponsor or as a contribution, or as a public person of public law. In addition, such a school will be able to choose staff more freely, likely to have an impact on how such a school will work, even extremely strong, not only on the part of the State, but on the one it has set up. As a result, such schools, which will have a concession so financed, will certainly be in a privileged position in relation to public schools. And by doing so, we will also create a kind of social difference between those who will go to elite schools and those who will have to go to public schools. Among those who will also be able to choose school and those who will not be able to choose it. If there's a private school with a concession somewhere and a public school has only five, six students enrolled, and that one, I'm exaggerating, 400, we're definitely not going to fund this public school anymore, but all the money they're going to put in for such a public school is going to be put into this private school. And it can happen to us, respected colleagues and colleagues, the following - such funding can also cause conflicts in the ideological field. Such 100% funding can cause all the religious communities that work with us to get their appetites to set up a school with specific goals - what is such a school set up for? Now, as long as we have only one dominant religious community, it's a good thing, but when there's another religious community, let's say we set up a mosque to set up spaces for a big school. Yeah, well, it's no better to have a private school like this set up there, and then with public money, we'll fund these things there. And then at some school, it's nice to drink wine, it's nice to be faithful to one woman, and in another school, it's also gonna be a valuable thing to drink wine, to be unfaithful, to be worthless, to not having more than one wife, to be poor, and so on, to caricate a little. And here it will begin, through these conflicts in the country, to create what we know in the Middle East or what we know in other countries. It would therefore also be good in terms of education and political hygiene to remain this level, so that there would be some difference between public school funding, which is publicly well-paid with taxpayers' money, and those schools that private people would set up with a view to making this difference, since, for the first time, we would be able to start different conflicts in a country that we would not otherwise have, and for the second time, that we would try to offer very unequal conditions for schooling in Slovenia, because public schools are too small. This is just what he calls, respected colleagues and colleagues, after the amendment has not been adopted, a law has been adopted in such a form as to ask taxpayers whether they are willing to support such a law. If we don't find a solution or a solution here, I'm almost 100% sure, but I'm not a prophet, none of us is going to be so adopted by law, leading by such an article to have a referendum, which will cost money again and which will bring not unity to this nation, but even deeper disunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u376	Thank you. Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u377	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The debate on private education in the Republic of Slovenia is necessary. There can be no doubt about this and it is very likely that in the coming years we will also experience an increase in the number of private schools as well as an increase in the number of children in private schools. However, and in order to make this possible, among other things, we propose a supplement that facilitates the establishment of such a school or, more precisely, the financing of such an established school. If you read the supplement, you'll notice. However, if it is to be legitimate and if it is to be appropriate to the school system in the country, the discussion on the network of public kindergartens and schools in that country is essential. And if someone has to worry that the picture of this is clear, then it's the Ministry, and it's the people who run it. And the greatest flaw in this law that we have before us is this one. In this area, we wander in the darkness, or the only light that shines, is the light of rationalization. Talking about centres, how we're going to bring everyone together, and from kindergarten to including higher schools, is absurd, especially at the moment when we're simultaneously increasing the number of children, with problems with the network of schools, financing private schools from 85% to 100%. Some say that they must do so because discrimination is at work today. If that were the case, then this discrimination would apply in Europe in a large number of countries. France, Italy, Portugal, United Kingdom, Finland are all countries that know the different financing of private schools within the same country. Slovenia also knows this. What we are really talking about is a completely reversed fact. Here Dr. Lahovnik and his colleague Moze have already pointed out that we will have, on the basis of public finances, a 100% funding of private schools, which will be added to it, I don't know, about 20% of the funds from the private investor, the school owner, will be added to this, for example, about 10% of the parental resources that are special parents, are those who specifically decide that they want a particular type of school and therefore are willing to give money for their children, while in public schools you can't expect it, a significant difference between schools in Slovenia. We will rightly call this discrimination. We will have private schools in a privileged position because of public finances and we will have public schools fighting for their existence because we will rationalise them. This will result at the end of the day in very simple things: more teachers, smaller groups, better conditions as regards material conditions, let us not be mistaken, the prophet and author of RTV laws has already made public on television that the objective of the coalition is also to increase wages, distinguish between wage policies. Then he said a whole paragraph of laps had happened to him. For the first time, I hear it's something we call lapsus, but I'm afraid he's basically told me where the dog is praying. Something like that doesn't seem right. Slovenia and the Slovenian school system do not deserve this, especially citizens and citizens. I don't think they'll let you either.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u378	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u379	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to answer some of the questions and views that are in conflict with the proposals that we are proposing ourselves. It's about privacy first. Everything that's been exposed today in the field of privacy has been highlighted by you in the 1990s. All the fears arising from this privacy were justified when you established them, when you or at your time established private schools with 100% funding. Only later did you establish three or allow three with 85% funding to be established. It's a relatively small difference. And if someone came up with capital now that you're spreading the fear of establishing some other religious schools in Slovenia, I could have done it a long time ago if I wanted to. So this 15% difference in anything changes the context of privacy in Slovenia. And we do not change the concept of privacy in Slovenia in any way. We still define it as you defined it in the white book. All you're saying is one demagic. These calculations, the financial structure is a stupid thing I've never heard of. How do you know how much money your parents will give, how much will the founder give, and so on? How can you scare away this solution with a financial structure that has no real basis? I have already made it clear several times that the founder, the private person who will enter or establish a private school and enrich it according to the concept that was established in the 1990s, will at the same time bring a lot of money into the school space, a lot of financial resources. And these financial resources that he will invest can be diverted by the state into something else, such as the development of the quality of education. The one who brings is opening private schools, bringing money. And in this case, the country can save and divert some of these funds to somewhere else, to the quality development of education, not to the walls. Even when talking about equipment, Dr. Lakhovnik, it is necessary to separate basic equipment, walls, equipment and software. We have also repeated this several times in this house, and if we listened, we could separate these basic categories. Space and equipment and investment maintenance shall remain the cost of the private founder of the school. Music schools aren't involved in this, this is the last time you've told me why they didn't, and then today you're reading how we turned them on. Like, if you'll just let me have a word or two about tuition. Today, parents in public schools also pay for some superstandard services, pay them, we have a number of schools, such or other ones, but I don't know what they call it, differently, contributions. They'll probably be left with something special later, nothing will happen because of this difference, nothing new will happen, nothing new that has already been seen. 100% of funding has already been seen, we had schools like this 15 years ago that were funded in this way. As for the percentage of private schools, Dr. Lahovnik has a new OECD edition, please look at it, Slovenia lasts after the share of private education, not only in primary schools, primary education, but also. Also in the field of vocational education, where Norway and Finland have 15.16% of private schools, a country with a strong public network of education, which will always be a framework of the Scandinavian school system. And in Slovenia, the public school will always be a fence of the Slovenian school system. If there was any real danger after a rapid, mass-based establishment of private education or if Slovenian civil society had these resources, then this would have happened a long time ago because the regulatory conditions do not change substantially. Please! We have three schools that are now discriminated against and children who go to these schools, which are 85% funded, and the rest are already 100%. And you're making such a big cry and shouting over this change, because we're only equalizing the conditions. In fact, children are participants in the education of those private schools which are 85% funded, discriminated against visas of others who are also 100% funded in private schools, and of course against all others who are in public school. They don't create unequal working conditions, I say again. I hear the obvious several times, yes, but that private founder will now pay extra and suddenly the public school will be in favor. Every tolar or every euro that comes from a private pocket to a Slovenian school is welcome. We cannot be intimidated in advance before some have good working conditions. But once again, it's not easy to set up a private school, and even less of a primary school, it's not a profitable activity. There's no profit here. We cannot explain in economic categories the process of establishing private schools in the field of primary education. I think that public schools will also be maintained later and that public schools will also remain in Slovenia after the Slovenian Schools' fence. If there were any leverage for big changes, that would have happened a long time ago. With these changes that we are introducing here, we are in no way compromising the public network of schools. Anyone who can count to five can figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u380	Thank you. I see interest. I am reopening my application for debate on Article 30 and the amendment to this Article. Please sign in. Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u381	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I really didn't mean to call, but when I listened to these last discussions, I'm really wondering what we're afraid of. Are we afraid of private schools against public schools? I believe that this is a purely principled position: whether private schools do or not. But it is important to ask or answer the question of what private school means. Private school is a school with concessions, with a public school program. And if a privateer wants to get government money, he has to go through a rather complicated procedure on a professional council where the program is approved or not approved. I believe that this is, we are talking about a programme that is the same as that implemented by public schools. It's exactly the same program. Of course with certain supplements. When did public schools come into existence? The most interesting is the finding of certain opposition members who claim, at least from their discussions, that private schools are being introduced only now. Private schools were introduced a few years ago under the leadership of the previous governments. At first they were financed 100%, then, for certain, I think, ideological reasons, reduced co-financing to 85%, but now the issue is raised again to 100% programme funding. We're talking about programs, we're not talking about buildings, we're talking about investments, and so on. I myself express my absolute full support for the efforts of the Ministry, which in my view lead education towards greater quality and, above all, plurality. I believe that discrimination is now that 85% are financed. As a parent, if I become a parent now, I think I have the right to raise and educate my children. These are fundamental human rights and it is the duty of the State to ensure the conditions for this. I think it's pure demagogism to involve ideological signs in the procedure for the adoption of this law. Once again, this law does not introduce private schools, these private schools were introduced long ago. And I absolutely cannot support this amendment, which has been tabled, but I will uphold the law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u382	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u383	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! This law favors private schools. And the fundamental question is whether we will still have good public schools in Slovenia. The minister came to visit the parliamentary group and said, "Yes, another small change is, for 15 percentage points we will raise the funding of private schools from public funds." 15 percentage points is usually the rate of return on capital that a private investor needs. And when someone says the change is small, it's usually the biggest change. If this is really so simple, why are you so scrupulously opposed to the amendment? If there is no change, why don't you accept an amendment that preserves the old state? Therefore, the fundamental question to be discussed in this article is whether we will still have quality public schools in Slovenia and whether schools will remain lay schools in Slovenia. Mr Minister, your mandate will be perpetuated in Slovenian public finances as a mandate in which Minister Bajuk reduced your funding for education. 4.8% of GDP in 2004, you will end up, depending on how you conclude this weekend's negotiations, at 0.4% or 10% real in GDP's share of less money. Mr Minister, this is the data of the Ministry of Finance, and you accepted it at the Government on 31 July; perhaps it was a correspondence meeting, but you did not know exactly what you accepted. How will you ensure the same situation in public schools if you favour and finance private schools with a reduced amount of money? And that's why the basic story is, in fact, that your intention is to essentially destroy public education. The reasons for this are probably mainly related to the modified company we are building. We're building an elite society, and now it's time for these elites to make elite schools. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we will try to fix a law that shapes and discriminates for these public and private schools: the parents of the Šentvid High School, which is lazily, cannot place half a percent of their income at the school fund and the parents of the Škofia High School can place half a percent at the expense of their income. That's how it is today. And what you Members of the ruling coalition accepted a few days later on your mother's working body, you said that there must be a distinction. Even the Minister of Finance said the problem was with the Maastricht criteria and so on. You're talking about a private investor enriching private education. No, he's going in for a capital return on capital. And American school Warsaw in Warsaw, where tuition is $20,000, has no public education funding. Now in Slovenia it is possible to set up such a private school and will receive 100% funding, parents will have to add a few more fees 10, 20%, just enough to pay their loans and return their income to capital. You say there's no profit in schools. Technically, he's gone, but there's a difference between income and expenditure. And that's not a very big difference. Therefore, of course, my assessment is that what we are doing today, and if you accept and reject our amendment today, we will make the law as it is, especially public education in Slovenia will make it much more fragile. The limited amount of money you have managed to dissipate to the Minister of Finance will be divided into several units. And that's why there's a lot of scheming. By 15% the increase in private education funding is favouritism. And there is no reason for us to do this in Slovenia, but it is the task of the Minister of Education to take care of a quality public school system, but not to ask and ask private investors to perform the role of an investor, ministry and full care of public education instead. That is why, of course, I think this is a very bad policy. And something else in this regard about the so-called "black age of privacy in Slovenia". Destrenik Elementary School, a time of terrible times from 1945 to the 1990s. From 1945 to 1952, we recorded renovation works on the school building, the first major adaptation started in the school year 1963/64, in 1964 a teacher’s block was built, so that some families settled in apartments. The school year 1966/67 restored the entire facade, 1977 cabinet, kitchen, library, 1987 and so on. In tough times, these were the times in which the minister attended this school, he was in public school, in this elementary school as a public school, invested very much in public funds. And I'd like to see a private investor invest in Destrinik primary school. And what's gonna happen? Limited money will require the closure of such schools in connection with changes and the formation of VICs, Educational Centres. In addition, if we add a discussion on the cost to the student, to the student, we are in a total and major change in the financing of education and education, a change that requires citizens to talk about it. However, I recommend that you and Minister Bajuk discuss seriously this weekend why the reduction in money for primary and secondary education, for tertiary education and for the reduction of money to help schoolchildren. It's just a bad school policy. And this little change you're making is bad, and we're going to oppose it with all our might. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u384	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u385	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General! I hope that my current implementation will not trigger your colleague's reaction on the left and will immediately race in a bench of government Members and explain to them where they blew through some of my replica. I agree with a colleague from the government coalition who was the only one who said that this law did not introduce public schools. It's true, it doesn't introduce them, but it introduces 100% funding. Private schools, I apologize for my expression, but in public - in private we have gone so far that we no longer know what is what. However, it introduces 100% funding for private schools. This is where we agree. It's true. That's right. Okay, thank you very much. So much so that we don't deceive or create demagogies. Minister, when you mentioned fear. Who makes fear of private schools? When I listened to you, I had to say that I was very scared. True, it is not easy to establish a private school. It takes, for the first time, capital, for the second time, some ideological orientation. Maybe even more grave than some of my predecessors who wanted to say the same. In this article, it is a matter of meeting the last one, I hope that the last "farce" promises made by this Government for its support in 2004. Why do I think that? Because the church is the only one in this country currently fulfilling an alternative or public-alternative recognised education programme. No one else. Just the RC. We'll agree here, too. Mrs. Uhanova, I believe not. You don't agree that you have to get up in the morning. But all right, no problem. Let's move on. You've talked about us making differences between children before. In your previous marriage, you tried to convince me that we were all in the same position as children, especially in the introduction of another foreign language. Remember! I hope you don't have a selective memory. But right now, right now, with this law, we're not giving these kids the same chance. I'm not worried about my baby, nor are you worried about yours. We 90 Members plus ministers, or perhaps another secretary of state or someone who has taken advantage of this country at the expense of this Government, will be able to finance private education. What about the people we're here for? Maybe not anymore. And we're already making differences between children. You would say that, anyway, you had a smile on your face, even though you graduated from public school, few of you sold strange things around, did harm to the public sector, sometimes when you were collecting various contributions, but still you have a smile on your face, especially for government Members, I will not appoint them. But Mrs. Jeraeva, I see you've figured out who the story's on. And today you're telling me that we're not going to make any distinction. That's what we're doing. We do not allow private education for all children in this country. We allow the children of those parents who have something more and who are ideologically oriented into something more. In the previous marriage, you've all convinced me that it's wrong, because in public education we have to have everything the same, everything has to be nice, fair, we've even imposed penalties for those who make fun of others. What do you think the introduction and 100% funding of public schools will not lead to these differences? Private schools, sorry, again, thank you, Robbie, for the correction. You don't think that's gonna happen? We all have TV at home. Look at the difference. And why, once again, I ask why it is necessary for the state to finance 100% private education. What for? Private education is about something more. The one who sets up a private school, yearning for profit, for that entrepreneurial spirit you all talked about earlier. Let him also introduce him to a private school, but not at my expense, not at the expense of taxpayers and not at the expense of people in this country. I will be happy to support the amendment as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u386	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u387	It is interesting to listen to some colleagues who mix up private and public education, which I am not surprised to hear. If you haven't stood a minute behind the cathedral and you haven't had any kids at school, you can't blame it. Someone doesn't know how the whole system works. The proposed amendment is primarily trying to maintain a controlled establishment of private schools, as established by the previous government. Because of the more beautiful, of course, some private schools had to be abandoned, established, but under clear control. And this government is hoping to free up the school market. I think it's an extremely important move, and of course allow children and parents under the same conditions to go to school where they want to go. And it is this law that says this amendment that I would like to maintain the situation in which we are now, that those parents who would like this capital to be children, of course, to be a higher added value, must pay more for it, even though their children are also entitled to the same amount of money from the budget as the children of those parents who send their parents to public school. But in the same family it can be children, some go to a private school, some go to a public school. I don't know why someone who sends one child there or I'm hurt because one child wants one specific, one quality more, and because parents want to go to a private school exactly what they think is good for a child. There's a very simple principle here that some people don't understand. Here works simple mathematics, let public money go where children are. If 100% of money goes to a child's private school, it'll clearly take so much less for a public school. There's really no difference here. And private schools can't be privileged in any way, no way. Otherwise, we are slightly forgetting in this debate what schools are meant for. They are not intended to maintain services, they are not intended to maintain large capital reserves, which have established an extremely expensive primary public school in previous mandates. Take a look at those who send children to primary school, how much it costs you to put children in primary public school. And when there is a private primary school offer on the market, I guarantee you, with significantly lower costs for parents, this school will teach children significantly more. And I think it's high time that this happened, that we stop supporting the publishing lobby that is now serving on this account because it protects the so-called public school network, that in the back is just capital in the sense that you are talking about private schools. And it's about time this thing got loose. Therefore, it is high time that children and parents who go to a private or public school begin to be treated in the same way. Otherwise, I wonder if we still have public schools in Slovenia. Public schools should be free. We pay all public schools, we also pay basic needs, photocopies. Tell me, which high school doesn't have to pay for photocopiers, where primary school doesn't have to pay for photocopiers? Is this school still a public school? I don't think so. In fact, this law is about equalizing in the practice of private schools. Private schools are those co-financed by parents. And today all public schools are practically private schools. It is right that all schools from public funds to children are financed under the same criteria. That's why, as I said, all I see in this amendment is the protection of publishing capital and capital that draws money from parents' wallets. And it's also, I don't know, obviously some political ideological tendency that wants to continue to maintain some controlled situation in education. I just can't find another explanation. Otherwise, if some do not fit the so - called Catholic private school, they should establish liberal private schools. There's no obstacle. I just want to know who's gonna put the kids in there. That's what I'm interested in. I think it's nobody. Interestingly, there are many children of parents who do not or do not express themselves as believers who have been exposed to Catholic private schools so often criticized. Why? Because schools are quality and because parents are responsible and want to give children as much as possible, and therefore I think it is high time that we stop this demagogy in Slovenia and start catching up with Europe. And let's make it possible for those 15% of the school's regular work for private schools, which, as I said, work with our children just like they do public schools. No, it's not. Who's tearing down the public school network? A demographic picture, no one else. I think the Ministry is the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u388	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u389	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u390	I don't think I can give a replica in this case, but you'll discuss it when the interviewers are done. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u391	The opposition of some of the passionate supporters of this amendment has repeatedly said that this is 100% financing of private schools, private capital, private schools. But it is necessary for the public to say again that private schools, private capital, are not financed, but publicly recognised programmes by the Slovenian state. Tell me, isn't that right? These public programs are taught and attended in these private schools by Slovenian children, who are not private, private, church, our, I don't know which. These are Slovenian children. And that what the state gives for these publicly recognized programs should otherwise be given to parents. That difference is paid by parents, not by private people, by the church, and I don't know who. But it is true that private capital brings additional money, buildings to this place. And that's what's always missing. We all want nice modern schools, but we see that money is missing. And he's welcome here. As long as there are state-funded programs in private schools, it will be difficult to talk about private schools and private schools. But it's only 15% difference, in three schools, as I know it's not paying yet. And that 15% would create ideological conflicts or even religious conflicts, as one of the former schoolchildren said. What do you think we are the first in Slovenia to introduce private education? Look around Europe and see if private schools are the source of religious and other conflicts and intolerance. One of the Members also said that it would still be necessary to pay overtime in private schools. That's what I believe. Also because public schools pay overtime. And everything that's not in the law is already being paid. No extended stay or pre-school care will be paid from 1st to 5th grade. But everything else that's not written down, and the schools are already explaining that they can count on it, because everything is by standard, the standards, there's nothing left to do in public school for free. At the very least, it seems to me, as it is said, that 100% of publicly recognised programs are financed in all schools, because this is an investment in children, and the money that parents have to pay is not enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u392	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u393	Thank you. This debate on private schools does not take account of a moment which still needs to be said. What about the kids? Children must certainly receive a public programme and achieve certain knowledge standards so that they can continue to be educated after primary school, secondary school and so on. To open this dilemma, Mrs Uhan, that in private schools there must be a programme in place in one way or another, is child protection. And it is right that when a new programme is introduced in a private school for the first generation over the entire programme, supervision of the implementation of this programme is ensured. Because a child has the right to such knowledge, no matter what his parents think, and they have the right to think for themselves. But Minister Beast, you have helped to make part of the hall laugh at how unconstant we are in our demands. When I talked about 85% of the funding of music schools, I thought this was the starting point for other private schools to be 85% funded, so that I changed my mind now. I merely cited this as an example of funding. And now that we're talking so much about how all schools will be open to all by the principle of fairness and equal accessibility, including private schools. That's not true. I read the statements made by the principal of the Aloyzi Schuštar Primary School, which clearly states on what criteria children will be enrolled if they are interested in entering. And he says, "It will certainly be the first condition that parents agree with the school's visual orientation and accept its educational concept." So not just as someone wanted to prove earlier that quality will be the only criterion, but first of all, parents will have to talk to this elementary school in order for teachers and principals to talk to them about whether these children can come, then this condition will be that they have to be older sisters and brothers at school, because they will have the advantage and so on. There is much to be learned from this interview. In what is in the field of religious and religious values, I do not even go down because every individual has a right to do so. What is not always the same account, Mr. Minister, is that for every two plus two there are not four. And what we have heard in the public hearing is an essential difference in the provision of data. And one of the fundamental misleading data is from the average share of private schools in Europe to make a demand for how we have the lowest of all possible. However, when I asked you in the question of the Member State, Mr Minister, how would you infect or monitor what you said was the final range of interest in private education in Slovenia, you said that in the professional 10%, but on the one hand you said that some things in local communities could not be controlled. At that time, you challenged me for that bear case, but I can tell you a new one: a Catholic kindergarten will be financed from local public funds, invested, although a public kindergarten with ten times the enrolled children is significantly less well-maintained, because it is only from self-sustainment, and for 30 years they have not invested in it, and now we will leave it and we will train the Catholic kindergarten. So what you're proving isn't always certified in practice. It would be good if you had one. And he doesn't, unfortunately, because in the end, we get to the point where parents look over the bench like that, and we call ourselves that, because they're all our kids, and they're gonna be what they're gonna be. I admit it would be a lot easier if our school were free in the full sense of that word. But all those who read the publishing lobby and don't know what else, Minister Beast has recently claimed that we have quality textbooks. And how did we get quality textbooks? Because parents, teachers, as well as students wanted to have quality, beautiful, and wanted to choose between different textbooks. That's how it happened. But let me just say, look, the same principal I was talking about earlier writes: "However, our school must not become just a school for children of wealthy families, the school must be open to all. We will help families with various charitable funds, for which private schooling may be too expensive." No comment is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u394	Thank you very much. Mrs. Uhanova, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u395	Mrs Potrata said that the child has the right to a publicly recognised programme, that it is for his own good. No one's opposed to it, neither are we. But we advocate that he also has the right to be 100% funded by a publicly recognised programme. That's all we're different about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u397	Thank you so much for saying that. I also welcome all those who accompany us from this balcony. They must have a great interest in hearing this debate. First of all, I would say to Mrs Patrati that it is the fact that parents sign a declaration that they accept a private school programme as normal as it is normal for us to breathe if we want to live. Because someone, if they don't sign it, of course they can't accept it, because they have a specific feature, and then, of course, they can't even sign that statement. The second thing I would like to say and what is pleased about New Slovenia is the fact that we hope that this trend will also remain that the number of births in Slovenia is increasing. After 10 years we had about 400 to 500 more children born last year, which is very good, and of course it will not come through private education to disrupt the public education system, as some have told. When I listen to these debates, I can say that all these debates we hear from the opposition are only one thing in common, that is an ideological essence, or that, as Mrs Potter said, is still a continuing cultural struggle. In this spirit, some have declared certain things when you read them in a magnetogram, perhaps in time someone may be a little ashamed to say it. However, it is not necessary to forget that Slovenia is an EU member and that we live in the third millennium. Otherwise, we are already used to these discussions. I'm not surprised. It is surprising to me, for example, that Dr. Lahovnik's debate, which, according to the profession of economists, is a kind of up-to-date Slovenian economy, as shown by the media, does not actually advocate for an economy of a completely acceptable aspect, this is creating competitive conditions. The introduction of private education is creating competitive conditions. Like creating competitive conditions, awarding healthcare concessions. You're against it, too. So in all these areas, we have to keep some kind of monopoly. But I don't know if those of us who aren't economists understand this, but at least I would expect economists to show this thing in a different way. It is quite practical to talk about the establishment of the first private primary schools and one of these should be planned in Maribor, Vrbanski. But if the rich guy you like to talk about is the RCC, he wants to create conditions for a private school there, then, even as it is written in this law, he has to create or invest millions of euros first, so that this building, which has been in use for 60 years, does not invest much in it, that it will first make this building from foundation to roof, that it will create conditions for it to work as such. That's the first condition. The second condition is that parents in Maribor will then show an interest in leaving their children to such schools and allow them to acquire knowledge in this school. That this school is going to be for some elite, like you said, far away from it. We now have four classic high school in Slovenia. In all four of these there are students of different visual orientations. But it is true that anyone who comes there must sign one declaration to respect the order that this school requires. They don't make other differences. Anyone can sign in, but he has to respect what he's committed to respect. And more, for those students, because in these schools they have to pay, there's a fund, a needle's financial fund, from which they help pay the difference to students who can't do it. It is also created in Maribor, Slomškova Gymnasium, where a fund is also created. And who fills this fund? People who support this private education who are willing to give it something. And this, in fact, as I see, is very, very painful, I do not see any clever reason why and no one in this argument has actually summed up any valid reason, except that it is still an ideological reason for us to continue to fight the ongoing cultural struggle. And that, fellow Members of Parliament and Members, should, however, once in this country, be burdened with tolerance, tolerance, thereby stopping and giving the opportunity and opportunity to private capital to be included. For this reason, I and New Slovenia have decided to provide money for the content of the publicly recognised programme and to create the same conditions for these schools as for everyone else, and of course we support it. However, it will still be necessary for those individuals who establish the school to invest in equipment, buildings, investments, maintenance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u398	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Of course, to the Minister, at least we who come from the Moroccan end should congratulate and thank him, given that, for the conditions of the private school, i.e. the elementary school in Maribor, he has done a great deal with the return of property and the financial incentive to do so, and that, at this end, there are also the same conditions and opportunities for this to happen in Maribor. Of course, that says that he is not such a poor person who will do and establish this school. We're not afraid of it on an ideological level, at least I'm not afraid of it. However, I fear this to ensure the quality of public education in the future at an even higher level. That's what I'm worried about. And if I hear discrimination here today, say teachers, because it has been said, for less costs someone will create significantly more, so we can hear such comments from Members. And a second time. They're talking about parents. Are parents who put their children in public schools irresponsible parents? That was said today. I don't have any feelings or should have a sense of inferiority and be irresponsible because I have both children in public school. Of course, I'm afraid of that kind of thinking. However, if there is a distinction between both in relation to teachers or in private or in public school, there will be different treatment of parents where a child is given or whether he wants a good or worse education or whether he will go to a private or public school. Of course, this is where logic now turns, because now the logic was such that the quality of public school is ensured and the conditions for private schools are created. Now it is mainly about ensuring the quality of private schools, while public schools are failing and the question is what their quality will be. And here I am now wondering whether it will be necessary to change the worldview base and religious belief if we want to create children in your way, quality conditions for achieving quality education. Is there this dilemma? From the discussions of some members of the coalition today, I find this dilemma very strong. It is necessary to sign and be bound by this signature. And the question is what will be included in this signature or the content to be signed. Will it then be necessary to prove our world view in this signature? And here are these questions that we want clear answers in the Slovenian public. Don't burden us with the way we fight culturally if we wanted to have a lay school. For the blindness of one side can lead very quickly to the stickyness of the other side. And of course this is today on the table.I advocate that we create conditions for private education, but that we create this on the basis of some assessment of what we need in the Slovenian space. I cannot agree with the Minister's assessment, which says let us go to the European average in Slovenia. Is the European average the criterion? Is the attitude of Finland, which has a good percentage of private education, in relation to the Netherlands, which is over 60, the right to "cut" Slovenia somewhere in between? There is a need for expert reviews and professional answers, not a flat-rate assessment: in Slovenia we want a European average. Whether it's good or not, it's not an important question. We therefore express scepticism, because the quality of public school funding must ensure quality comparable to that of private schools. And it is with this equation that we estimate that this will no longer be possible in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u400	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u401	I have to say, I'm really disappointed when I listen to how low some can get into deception. But really. You know, when you talk about market logic, we talk about raising and educating the youngest, the most vulnerable representatives of our society. Education and education. Now the new government will introduce market logic into the sphere of public primary education. Please! A while ago, the minister said he didn't want to have a monopoly on public education. What does that mean? I repeat, public education, public goods. It was similar in health care, and we know where it took us. And those you don't want to understand, let me read to you what the law says, what section 30 of the law says. Yeah, it's gonna be 100% funding for religious and moral content. 100% funding of the complementary public network programme is called a default. Why did I mention 100% financing of religious and moral content? Because you are referring to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but you are interpreting it in your own way, as you are interpreting in your own way all day today both laws or school reform. I would like to point out that also the Minister who says no will not finance the construction or equipment of private, private primary schools from public funds under this law. But that's just not true. Allow me to read to you: "Unless private schools have the means to invest, investment maintenance and equipment." However, irrespective of the second paragraph of this Article, it is said that, according to what I have read now, private schools may participate in school equipment programmes, in accordance with the rules laid down by the Minister. But we know what is the intention, the desire, the desire of Minister Beast. And those who oppose the opposition with regard to such a very obvious breakdown of the public system of primary schooling, those who give us an ideological interest, I ask you, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not the whole school reform very much but very ideologically subdued? If you look at the submarital acts, the curriculum, say, in six months, the curriculum was prepared. In the field of literature, have you looked at the content of the new literature in public primary education? And finally, you know, a respected colleague who looks at me so hard, a gray eminence behind these reforms is a man who is a Bible teacher. This is the man in charge of the so-called Beast Reform. Now report to the opposition an ideological interest! Let's take a look at the thing that's hiding in the background first. I will certainly support the amendment because I am very clearly opposed to doing so. I am not opposed to the establishment of private schools, but we are opposed to the 100th and a few percent funding of private schools. I told you what a condition is - religious moral content, so they can get 100% funding or 100- and a few percent funding. I strongly oppose such work, at the expense of, I say, public primary schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u402	Thank you very much. Mr. Matthew Lachovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u403	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u404	Just a moment, Mr. Ledger. Please, please, Mr Jerovšek, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u405	Mr President, we have witnessed several times today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u406	What do you want? I asked.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u407	Yeah, I'll make a proposal at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u408	Do you want to discuss or make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u409	I'll give you a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u410	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u411	Procedural proposal. Today, we have witnessed a number of very insulting outbursts of colleagues, especially on this side. I have to say, I don't know what's causing this behavior. And I must say that now that colleague Tavsheva has attacked colleague Uhan's, she looks stabbed, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u412	What's your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u413	Insultingly and, Mr President, we should take action, we should seriously punish our colleague in order to stop such revolutionary acts and please take care of them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u414	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I think I only realize that the insult from one, the other, third party was great today; both at the time that I led this meeting, as did the President and again when I am conducting this meeting. Proceed, please, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u415	Thank you very much, also to Mr Jerovsk, for taking me dressed against the fallout coming from his right side. But what I would like to stress is this. Before, I was very surprised when the Minister of Education himself said, he sort of said, "Even in these public schools, it comes to parents often paying for some superstandard so that things can be carried out." I mean, that's true, but that the Minister of Education is bragging about it, and besides, as a fact, forgive me, but for all the parents in this country, I'm going to say it's ironic. I think the Minister of Education of this Government is boasting that parents in public schools have to make additional contributions to ensure that children have some normal standard, and these contributions are a whole series - I think it is absurd. If this practice exists, but to boast about it, please, because you have said that even public school is not 100% funded. And while the public school is not 100% funded, you will now be financing private schools with the same money. Thus, in public schools, parents will pay even more. This is ridiculous. And speaking of economics, it's only right that we're exact. The ministry says, I ask you how it can be argued that the equalisation of funding to 100% for private schools in 2008 will require EUR 288,000, if you do not know how many private schools we will have in 2009, pardon in 2009. This is, for example, one such question that seems to me to have remained completely unanswered. And what you often said on this right side today is that we don't understand the context of private school. Of course we understand him, because that's the point. The context of the private school means that the private school is also partly privately financed, and so it has been so far. In private schools, 85% of the funds were covered by the state, 15% by parents. Now you're going to change that logic. And in what is private school now even private if it is fully financed by public funds? It's private only after the source of the capital. There's private capital. And clearly, private capital has different objectives than public capital. But on that point, I'm sorry, I guess we're in agreement. And it can have a profit goal, even though you'll say that profit can't show up, but, as my colleague said before me, the difference between income and expenditure is nothing more than that. Or the goal is some other. We all know what the objectives of the background are. So, you know, ladies and gentlemen, I don't mind private schools if they're really private schools. But what bothers me is if it happens from elementary school to university this logic that someone says, "We're going to have seven to ten universities, we're going to have private primary schools." The jackal, from which it's all financed together, is the same. And that means that that public part, public education just gets less money. And once again, I don't know why the minister didn't answer me when I asked him nicely: If there were 36,000 births in our country 20 years ago, there are half of them today. And tell me why in addition to this public network of schools that already exists, we need a whole range of private schools, which will be funded by 100%, not more than 85%. And I'd support that if we didn't have enough primary schools. I would say, well, let private capital invest additionally, but of course the state must also cover that, the programme 100% if primary schools are too small. Excuse me. Where do you live? Primary schools, classes are empty. I'm very sorry about that. In Velenje, Anton Ashkrca Elementary School was ahead of the circus, I'll say, 20 years were four or three years old, today there are two. Plus, there's 20 kids in these. And you decide to finance private schools further. I assure you that most taxpayers will not agree. If you feel otherwise, you will have the opportunity to check it out in a different way. You can have a voting machine here today with which you can make anything, but I believe there are other options when people can express their opinions and I know they will. And then we will also talk about all these economic categories with the greatest joy. I am particularly interested in what this really is to ensure 100% of the funding of the programme, and then in another article you write that, of course, investments and equipment are not financed from public funds first, and then you write "unless the Minister decides otherwise" a little later. And the story is closed. Here, if someone is running an ideology, you know, it's driven by those who have proposed this law on the side of the government or the coalition. For this reason, I believe that 85% of private school funding is appropriate to allow this principle to be chosen by parents who are not satisfied with the public school in Slovenia to decide on a private basis, but contribute to the difference. However, if we also go to 100% private school funding, then this private school context is distorted. Then I wonder what these private schools are like. But you know, and if you have a medical concession, sometimes I still understand that he wants to have a concession, so he wants to do his own work. I would even understand if teachers set up cooperatives and started thinking about some private schools in order to achieve autonomy. However, I find it difficult to understand different religious communities or private investors as to their motives. Is the motive a profit or is it something else? But good, we're not getting into this. But it doesn't make sense to me that no matter what's in the background, we say 100% of your interests will be covered by the money of all taxpayers. At the same time, public schools are empty, half empty and have no means of maintenance. And let me answer, please, Mr. Minister, just look at the example of Šentvid in Ljubljana: on the one hand we have public schools in desperate condition, there are no means of maintenance, and on the other hand private schools are being built, which will be 100% funded by taxpayers' money. Then don't tell me it's economical. Let's talk about the facts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u416	Thank you very much. I'm opening another circle. Check-in is on. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u417	Thank you for your word. I don't know, I don't understand why so much panic on the part of some debaters about 100% private education funding, about programs. I don't know. Maybe in five years, it'll be different. It may be necessary to return to 85% funding. But today, in this situation, this proposal is very good for the New Slovenia Group and for me personally. Now that we are adopting the 2008 budget rebalancing and the 2009 budget, when we are addressing the areas of education so that no one will come with any amendments, you know, for this primary school, it is absolutely necessary to provide financial resources for this kindergarten. We all know the extent to which investments are being made in this area. I firmly believe that about 100 million euros is insufficient. This is how I explain it, it is one of those solutions that we will not or will not be local communities when they apply for investment in this area, 25th place, 50th place, or even lower. This means that private capital will be included here. I'm talking about objects. And that's the point for me. And I am sure that we will also solve a number of pressing issues in this area. That's why I'm going to support the government proposal. I would add, however, to certain debates. Yes, it is said that, I think, Mrs Potrate will not be here, the music school in the first place will teach liturgy, I don't know what Mrs Potrato has explained before, it's a shame that she's not here, I really like listening to her discussions, but to a certain limit. [[...]] But when he starts putting in some impatience, it doesn't lead anywhere. This same Mrs. Potrata said last time that every eight children in Slovenia go to bed hungry. Otherwise, she said she read it somewhere. You know I was so shocked. I also spent my childhood in quite a lot of poverty, but I did not go to bed hungry, and my father or mother did. That explains today. I would suggest that she go to elementary school when the students go home from the first to the eighth grade and ask them who has the phone. I think almost every child. And such discussions about the situation today in Slovenia, to talk about some poverty, I think it is very unfair, very unfair to all those who accompany us and spread some intolerance, some spiritual state, as someone imagines it only in their own, I would say, context, I think it leads nowhere. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u418	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u419	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Mr Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members. This lesson, which has been going on for several hours, has actually made me extremely sad because some of your fellow opposition colleagues and colleagues have been marked, you have stigmatized some 10,000 Slovenes and Slovenians of those who have attended the private schools they still attend, those parents who direct their children to private schools and those who work in private schools. Can you imagine how they feel when they listen to these discussions? There is a fear of Catholic kindergartens, Catholic primary schools, Catholic high schools. I don't know what's wrong with parents in Prekmurje who sign their children into Catholic kindergarten, Laura's name, and the waiting line is extremely long. And every year longer. I don't know what's wrong with seniors who, for example, at the Bishop's classical high school at Stul 23 have reached a few years, in fact since the beginning of this high school in the new state of Slovenia, who record the best high school results. One of the LDS ministers was able to see how this school works when he enrolled and brought his child to graduation. I suggest that we use or serve at some time, those who have the wrong idea about these private schools, what day of the open door. I believe and I'm sure you won't regret this visit. Let's look around Europe a little bit, because we are also citizens of the European Union. Consider, for example, France, which, as the most laicist country, pays even church private schools with a publicly valid program of 100% and pays teachers. And this, of course, is not a lonely case in Europe. The Minister of the Beast spoke about the OECD countries and the share of private schools at the level of primary education, and we are last. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. We're no better in high school. There are only three countries behind us, Denmark and Ireland, because they have one special system, and then only Turkey is behind us. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. The task of this National Assembly is to do something about it. The key reason for my support for 100% funding is the constitutional right of parents. If we're talking about private capital logic - yes, that's a good theory, but in this respect, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In this private education segment, he does not play his own logic. [[...]] I guarantee you, I'm very skeptical that one of the 100 richest Slovenians would invest money for a private school. This will be done by those who do not care about this Slovenian nation. Yeah, who's that? Some we already know, and some I hope we will find out, and I hope so in as many as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u421	Thank you very much. It is amazing that the chapter on private schools gives birth to such drastic dogmatic ideological responses. One would expect that we have already taken a deep step into democracy, that we can compare ourselves with the world and Europe, and that these ideological views will eventually be less or at least the end. On the other hand, I am not surprised, for on Monday, when it was suggested that these laws should be removed from the agenda, Shirca said, the discussions in the field of school laws and resolutions were largely directed. And I agree with that. We all know who the director of this show is. And they're actually repeating a direct act here. And even with the statement from today's debate, my colleague Germić, I am actually pleased with his sincerity. He said with his eyesight or dissatisfaction that blindness on one side usually results in blindness on the other side. And with disappointment he looked at us why we did not act blindly, why we did not react in a blinded way. But, buddy, that's logic, that's the same logic that went to civil war. The Remembrance of Hribar quoted Kardel as accusing the liquidations and saying, "We're going to force them into collaboration." And they did it. Don't provoke blindness. I have to say, I'm not a fan of private schools, but I'm in favor of competition in the good school market. I'm for schools and universities that give a good product. This is an excellent graduate at the university, who will be able to develop new programs, a new added value. And I'm for a good school that will give a good one to the one who finishes primary or high school. But here I have to admit that these schools have achieved good results. I think the former minister will confirm that. Four years ago, I think, it was the cause, and then we found out that he didn't want to publish the high school results anymore, that all four of the high schools had excellent success, that no one had fallen to all four high school schools. This is an excellent ID of these schools. These schools receive an entry significantly lower quality of pupils, such as the Refugee High School or the Second High School in Maribor, where they are only enrolled with additional points. So we have evidence that with increased interest, with better work with students, with students, the results can also be better. You're doing tremendous damage to the National Corps when you're trying to destroy these good results, what's going on around the world. And we Slovenians need good schools, for all these teachers, we need people who can develop and think for themselves. See also the contribution of Prof. Tonet Vrabar in the Letters of Readers in the Saturday annex. I've been following him for years, writing great articles, and I know, after his last name, that he comes from one of the most famous peasant families in Kozjak. And I think that argument is strong. He says: "In an interview with the previous Minister of Education, I read thoughts that are surprisingly consistent with the repression and abolition of classical education in Slovenia a few decades ago." And then he quotes, reads, how absurd, speaks, but of course he tells where it was published, who was the editor and so forth of this chamber and these circulars. And really, there's still this similarity. And I must say that it is also known that Kardelj abolished high school because it was a logical ideological conclusion that political opposition or dissidents would be recruited from high school. And there was a need to end high school. And with that logic, you have to stop. We need to move forward in quality assurance. These ideological, dogmatic arguments, cited here, do not stand in today’s world. They can't stand it, and they're not real. And look, one of the reasons I think is that these schools, I think, are general, because this was the morning when I wasn't here, is that these schools are said to be giving more actually already in the framework of the current recognized programme have been able to give more patriotism, more home education. And I don't think anyone from these schools is going to say that the Tigers were terrorists who killed children and set fire to schools, as Mr Stannik said two years ago. It's a lack of native education and some other kind of education. And, of course, there are some concerns that such cases are that in all areas, in some way, this competition generates positive results, and therefore I think that these arguments cited here are completely depressed, unrealistic, in fact contrary to the interests of the national corps. And in this I think that we should stop, that without blindness, which states that it is necessary to provoke it, talk in the light of better results, better schools in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u422	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u423	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministers, his associates! I must say, too, that I am disappointed by some of the opposition's debaters, who have actually broken the dignity framework that is expected in this National Assembly. The debates of some, which I see are no longer in the hall, have already reached the level of balinity. First of all, I was struck by that debate, or that part of the debate, when the coalition MPs threw up, that is, after not agreeing with his position that she did not agree that she would have to get up tomorrow morning. That's really lame talking. But if I go to the content itself. We talk over and over again, even though I do not know how many times it has been explained that it is not a public or private school funding, but a public education programme implemented by both public schools and private schools. So, funding for a public education programme. And why shouldn't this public education programme be financed by whoever's doing it? And that's all this is about. But not to fund private schools and so on. In addition to the public education programme, which will be financed by 100% of the state under this law, as in public schools, both in public and private schools, the State will also finance everything else in public schools because they are public schools and in private schools nothing but a public education programme. And when we talk about one article talking about whether, if the Minister decides, the equipment will also be financed, yes, but not any equipment, only equipment exclusively intended for the implementation of the education programme, software, not chairs, cabinets, bleaching and so on or other equipment. This is a software exclusively dedicated to a public education programme to be financed. So I don't know, because even how many times we're going to say this, the responses are probably going to be the same. But that's all it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u424	Thank you very much. Mr. Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This debate, which has been going on for several hours, I can only say that I am personally very pleased with public school. I think she's very successful. Good. I don't have any problems getting my kids into some private school. That's the first conclusion. Second. I am very sorry that in this House there is still so much ideology and for hours only: left, right, I do not know who is more right, less right, to whom it is more written on the skin or less. This I think is not good for Parliament or for Slovenian society, so that we can count where someone belongs and who we will support if that happens. Unfortunately, after 15 years we should cross these frameworks a little bit and take little account of what is good for Slovenia. Privacy enters all spheres of life. The economy has already made it through. It's been 15 years, it's not yet final, but I hope that the country will do its part and the matter will be clear who belongs to whom. In the field of health, this route has been made more or less successful. There are a lot of criticisms at the expense of concessionaires that this is not good and so on. But after all, the species have decreased, but they're gone. Some good things have also been given by privacy in health care, although you have certain concerns about some, such and other criticisms. And I'm also saying that everything wasn't perfect, and it wasn't, but some steps are made in a positive direction. In the area of education, for example, we are working today and will work in this direction, even though we already have private schools. But we're taking steps. But we're talking about some poor 15% from yesterday to today. It's almost nothing! How many of these new private schools will there be in the future in Slovenia? My opinion is that very little. Very little. They don't wait in line for private people with capital to invest in private education. I don't think they're going to invest somewhere else, where they're going to be better and bigger returns, not in education. Gardens. We tried to do something, but we didn't make it. This private sphere doesn't work and it doesn't work. Clearly, conditions, regulations, demanding and private people do not see motive and interest such or different as to interfere with the field of preschool education. It's not working. It's working. I think it is right that, as a society in the European Union, we must respect certain legalitys, because we are only in a certain community. And I think it's right to give those, I don't know, five-thousand citizens the opportunity to, on equal terms, decide whether to put a child in a public school or possibly for such and other reasons in a private school. Let them decide. Make it up to the parents, the kids, the kids, the kids. Why he decided what, he probably knows best; whether he has better conditions, more friendly, I don't know what else. But let's give this a chance for a child, for parents to decide. We do have a shot at this, though. But with all due respect, as I said in the introduction, I respect public school, respect it, and consider it very good. Finally, I see the problem in particular that this demographic picture in Slovenia is so sad. This worries me that there will be too few children for one school or another. And in this fear is certainly the one who worries me as mayor, what with the public network of schools, which mean so much in every place, is much more than just school. If you drop out of school, any place in the city, you'll end your life in the city. Believe me, I have an experience that happened years ago. And that place has no school, no inn, no mail, nothing, and life has died. School's a big deal. And I hope that this Government and future governments will also worry that we will continue to ensure that the networks of public schools continue to provide the minimum conditions for small schools in rural areas, wherever they are, to live in the future, regardless of this privacy, which will certainly not affect rural areas, but perhaps larger cities. And there's nothing wrong with that. I don't have the kind of concerns that some people have, but I belong to this side, I'll say, coalitions. And I think that the fear that some of you place so much emphasis on is completely exaggerated. Do not be afraid of the privacy and choice in this Slovenian education, which is today, we are talking about the minimum 15% change. And that's the whole five-hour debate about this point. What's the big deal? Isn't it a waste of our time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u426	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u427	Why are we against favoring private schools? Because we're against breaking up a lay-out public school. We need a layman's school. Gentlemen, we need it so that everyone, without elitism, without religious pressures, without these or those restrictions, without the pressure of older brothers and sisters, can acquire the right to education in accordance with the Constitution. We're not against private schools, but we don't understand them as a system. We're for private schools, which are enrichment and supplementation. And some of this is done in high school. To introduce this as a system, fellow Members and Members, if we had it in Slovenia as a system, if we had a school system in Slovenia, I guarantee you that a third of you would not be here today. I wouldn't be here because we couldn't get a private school education because we couldn't skip social classes in our life cycle. I lived in these systems, and I know how the kid went to public school next door, and this one went to private school. I'm going to conclude a comparison that's clear to everyone. Public school, good public school is like good public television. BBC. Now you're taking money from public school, public television, and giving it to POP TV. Why? To increase the profits!?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u428	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have no objection to private schools, and there really won't be a difference between them if they're funded 100% of each other. But that's just the way it looks. In fact, there will be public schools with that part of the 100% funding that will go to private schools. And in that sense, it concerns me. The same is true, of course, of the equipment on which I have a discretionary right. The public school will also lose part of its funding from school equipment because it will be allocated to private schools after the Minister's decision. And that's the problem. And here I don't really understand that these concerns and serious concerns are neither accepted by the Minister nor by our coalition colleagues who are always saying something that is not true. It's not true that public schools aren't gonna get worse. They'll do worse for all the money that goes to private schools. In this sense, I see nothing good about the matter. But if, of course, we open a public school where it's shut down because of a small number of children, now there's a need to reopen it because the child is more and more, I don't mind. But that takes extra money. That is why the public school, which already exists in a wider area, will suffer in the sense that one department will have to stop because there will be so many children or that one teacher will be out of a job because it is not necessary for the headmaster of the private school to take him to work. Neither will the monopoly if it happens that these public schools will be more, according to the minister, up to 10%. But I'm afraid it might be a monopoly on the minds of schoolchildren, because then, if everything else is the same, just this secret desire, maybe the motive to force it in this direction. In this sense, we will support this amendment. We believe that the lack of additional resources is a sufficient reason not to finance both equally by taking and giving one to the other. Not for the last time what's wrong with public schools. I think it's nothing. Maybe for some, being lay-offs, that's what the Constitution says. However, I have never opposed it, but it has given priority to public schools and I will not, and neither has our party, and neither has the parliamentary group. In this regard, we are at the same level with everyone who thinks it is right that private schools are in our country. These are the reasons which, however, give justification in our decision to support this amendment and that, if it is not adopted, we will not be able to agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u430	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u431	Thank you very much. We're probably all very tired, but still, some of my thoughts. I think that the sharp opposition to 100% private school funding has no real arguments, but all elephants on some flat-rate reviews and some fearsome ones. I'll try to say this on my own on the basis of arguments. I support private schools. Why? Because they already are, and we don't make them with this novelty of marriage. Schools have already been established before 1996. There are seven of them and this government has inherited them. I also support that in this direction because we don't stop them. I think because private schools also actually enrich the network of public schools with a larger and additional offer to children and parents and what I see because of the creation of certain competition. I do not support the monopoly anywhere, and also the competition of public schools and private schools, by not jeopardising private schools, is welcome. This is also shown by the results of the knowledge of children in these private schools. And that's in the interest of both children and parents. As I said before, all these private schools have been inherited by this government. They were established years ago, in the time of the previous governments, and the minister did not establish any. That's why I don't know why he's being criticized for setting up new private schools. Funding. Already, as we know, before 1996 all schools were established, I think 4, 100% funded, after 1996 they are 85% funded. The claim that funding to the detriment of the public, I think, is a little difficult. What is the increase for these 15% of these private schools, which are now funded 85%, or is that a million euros, two, ten, what? I've never heard anyone talk about these absolute numbers - 280 thousand euros. If you know what that means. That means roughly, I also found this data, 300 meters of highway construction. Or a different comparison that it does not go to the detriment of public schools and that they will not be impoverished, that they will not be able to invest, because we have 400, around 450 primary schools and about 250 secondary schools, that is 700, that is 400 euros per school. 400 euros, that's 100,000 ex-tolars. Will this make them poor if we compare it to a lady? We need to talk about some absolute numbers, which are flat-rate and grade. And as far as the amendment is concerned. It says: "The private school belongs to an individual student or student 85% of the funds provided by the State or the local community for salaries, other personal benefits in accordance with the law and collective agreements and the material costs of a student or student at school." However, I also read Article 89 of the Law, which does not change, which states: "The salaries and other personal benefits of private school workers financed from public funds shall be established in accordance with the law, collective agreement and other rules applicable to public schools. If the remuneration and other personal benefits are created contrary to the preceding paragraph, the financing from the State budget shall be abolished." That's what we heard from the opposition today, too, if you're going to increase wages. Do you not feel that this is in some conflict, that this is in some way the opposite, this amendment, and in the law of this article that does not change? Now I ask you why such an amendment has been tabled. Have they not checked the case or is it set up to be debated something demagogically? And here it would be good to get an answer. Can the private education of public education be destroyed? Please, 700 public schools against 7. That's 1%. How many more private schools do you think will be set up? Establishment of a private school: facility, equipment, this is about a million euros. That was the data of the day. And we're funding 15% of what we're talking about because it's already funded 85%, which means very little in this structure. How many schools like that, how many investors like that, please?Oh, my God! And one more thing. I'd understand if we tabled an amendment to completely abolish private school funding, then I'd understand you, but you're fighting for 15% for 3 that's funded by 85%, and I don't understand that, but the rest are 100% funded. I don't know why the former governments took it. That's what you could say. Why did they accept 100% funding before 1996, and why did they let it be established? That's weird, isn't it? And if I end here, I would say, my assessment: the opposition of the profession, because there was also a lot of talk about the profession, is the fear of competition, because you have two images, but that's positive, the competition is positive. However, as far as politics is concerned, the debate that has already been in the past and now is an ideological debate, a dissension without real arguments, and the victims are children, as children are in all schools. And there's something else that's really demagogic. He said and asked the minister; the structure reduced so much and so much funding for education. Yeah, but he didn't say that when he was in the government, the gross domestic product growth was 2% and 6% to 7% for 2007. And it's not an automatic increase, you have to look at absolute numbers. And the real stake on the student, and that's what my colleague Squeakl knows, because in finance he's found himself as a fish in the water, and he's got a huge increase. He doesn't say that. Therefore, I do not think that this amendment is professionally justified because it is contrary to Article 89 and I absolutely do not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u432	Thank you very much. Dr. Mitja Slavinec has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u433	Thank you very much. My nephew played with the numbers, so I'm gonna keep going here. Minister, I'm sure you will remember when you gave an assessment that even in the best Christian times, there were not enough than 5% of private schools and this assessment is now supposed to be. So 5% is that, not 1%, and we're talking about this number. That's no longer such a neglectful part. And it's not just about some schools being funded 100% in some environments. In some environments, however, public schools may be at risk. And what remains of parents is whether they enter children into a private school where they have to adopt the world view of the school, or maybe children have to drive 20 miles [20 km] away to a public school. I'm definitely for private schools, okay, but not public schools. And we all need to do everything together to maintain and improve the level of public schools as high as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u435	Some of your colleagues spoke about the decommissioning of the school system of public education, the decommissioning of the public network and so on. If they were a little mean, they'd say that Secretary Gaber gave 85% to decommission the school system, and Minister Beast will give 15%. But I don't see that decomposition, and it's probably not that bad. And if it were such a business, so private schools, we'd have lots of them by now. Even if there are more, I doubt that the new 10 or 20 schools will threaten the 800 schools we have today. In most cases, private schools are established because of the way in which substances are supplied, as the public programme must be achieved by all. And like the different programs we know from Montessori on, children are different. And what kind of system is better suited for or better than someone else. Some of you then talked about elite schools. Today they are considered to be elite schools of the Second Maribor and Bežigrad Gymnasium, which are public schools and not private, not some Jell-O Gymnasium or anything like that. The Waldorf School in Ljubljana is already funded 100%, and could hardly be called a school, given the conditions under which they are or what the building is and so on. And there the children feel very good and are satisfied, both children and parents, and also those who work there and work there. I think we're needlessly afraid of private schools as if they're going to fall out of the sky and it's something new that we're going to bring into our system. As I said before, some of them, no decomposition occurred, no one had to change the world-view belief, as said by colleague Germič. And also, who teaches at these schools, or who are these schools addressed to? These schools are attended by our children, taught by teachers who may also be closer to Montessoria or something else. And why is there such a fear of a private initiative before we have different options? We love to choose, don't we, and we all love to have a choice. Well, the one who doesn't want to enroll in Waldorf School or the High School of Scots is not going to. The students of the Šentvid-Bežigrad School or of the Waldorf High School are working equally well and continue their studies at the university. I don't know why we're talking about financing one private now. We'll fund the kids and thank God we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u436	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u437	Thank you for your word. If someone had said that we should only allow the education of children in Slovenian if 15% were paid by the parents in their pocket, everyone would have jumped to the ceiling. They would say, "Wait, the school in the mother tongue is constitutional law." That's right, colleagues and colleagues. And I would be among those who would jump. But you need to know that the right to choose education for your child, in accordance with the values of parents, is constitutional right in the exact same chapter as the one that speaks about the right to education in the mother tongue. And it is quite amazing how easy it is for some to discuss this constitutional right. In fact, it is necessary to know that here the choice that comes before parents is very simple. For the first time, the new legislation will allow them to choose effectively without any obstacles. In fact, the choice, without any tuition, is that all school fees are abolished by the new legislation. No exceptions. He's even sanctioning if someone wants to collect some more tuition, then he can't run for public funds anymore. That's exactly what the law says. And there is an additional paragraph, in the same article, which makes it very clear that if someone for everything else about education cannot do so, he can also contribute from public funds. From the point of view of parents, all social inequalities arising from the inadequate legislation adopted in the previous mandates of previous ministers or former ministers, if we are precise, are eliminated here. That's exactly why I say there are so many problems. Bad news is a bad thing. Those who have the greatest commitment to social inequality are here frantically fighting to preserve the social inequality arising from the payment of fees paid by one and the other, of course, not. At the same time, it is important to note that there are many things that have been said in previous discussions, as well as in recent months, all the characteristics of hate speech, the concept that we have heard so much about recently in the public. He plays on negative emotions, on prejudices, and he doesn't respect his interlocutor. These cases were as many as you want. One of them, when someone from the opposition called the government's representatives "unprofessional group at the Ministry", is in a magnetogram, you can go check it out, it's just a small piece, a small piece that tells what level this was discussed. And here's where it really needs to be said. This is not just about allowing for the first time a real choice without tuition. It also plays a significantly greater role for parents, gives them the opportunity to participate directly in the educational process, give them a real choice and give them a real opportunity to exercise constitutional rights. This is what this legislation offers parents to choose what they themselves sincerely believe is best for their children, without any obstacles. Everything else that has been debated today [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In fact, to a large extent there is a very large set of what we call hate speech. [[...]] Let me just illustrate this with just one more case. You know, some of you also said 85% are being funded by private schools today. That's not true. All three of the biggest schools, the most famous, are already being funded 100% at this point, and nothing will really change for them from this point of view. This is what the previous legislation has brought. It is said that there are endlessly some prejudices, some false claims, to arouse people's feelings. In fact, it's the choice I've made, and that's why I'm here to make these amendments. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u438	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. You have five seconds, nine seconds, I'm fixing, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u439	What a fellow Mikolić has allowed is a phenomenon in our National Assembly [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and permissible, but among civilized people, this is a slander. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u440	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 30 or the amendment to Article 30. I am putting to the debate Article 44 and the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 46. I am putting to the debate the amendments of SD, LDS, NP, SNS. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, NP, SNS groups and I find that there are no debaters. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 8 p.m. and 5 minutes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8pm and 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u441	We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. Continue with the 8th item of the agenda. We'll continue when you calm down. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act - following a reduced procedure We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 2. Procedural question. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u442	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When we received a bill from the Government in the parliamentary bench, after reading at the parliamentary club, we expressed our support for this law. However, when we discussed on the Committee the amendment of Article 2 to amend the amount of the compensation for the transmission of data by health service providers to insurance companies carrying out supplementary health insurance, of course there was a type of dilemma as to how the appropriate percentage should be for the adoption of the law not to create further complications as to how supplementary health insurance rights are exercised and to ensure adequate quality health care for all insured persons in the Republic of Slovenia. The Government submitted the first law on compensatory schemes for consideration and adopted this law in 2005. It's been two years for us to make calculations on how to make up for it. The government has not proposed an amendment in its proposal; the coalition with the amendment is proposing an amendment. When proposing an amendment, the rationale is that the amendment is proposed on the basis of calculations. On the board, we asked the Ministry to provide us with information. As Chairman of the Health Committee, on Tuesday, last week, I addressed the Minister in writing to provide us with these data and calculations that speak of the amount of this compensation. Since we have not received this to date, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President-in-Office, I propose that, in accordance with the third paragraph, that we do not take a decision, we adopt a law that will continue to create an irregular situation between operators on the one hand, namely between health service providers and between insurance undertakings and to the detriment of insured persons who pay supplementary health insurance, that, as presidents, the work of the National Assembly be suspended prior to the decision on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Amendments to the DeSUS Group of Members and to invite the Government to complete the missing material, i.e. the calculations that were the basis for amending this law in the second article. [[...]] Mr President, I propose that we vote on this and I ask Members and Members of Parliament for their support. Improper decision, incorrect decision, of course [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] will contribute to the dissatisfaction of all actors, most of whom are insured who are paying supplementary health insurance premiums. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u443	Thank you very much. I do not think that I have these powers under the Rules of Procedure, because we are in the voting phase and the debate has been closed. That is why we are moving to a vote and a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment was not adopted in the second reading, it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 7. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I'd like to ask you again, I said, we're voting, I'm looking at the hall and I'm pressing. Please, that's enough time. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 7. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 6th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the basic school law. The assembly will decide on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 to 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 11. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 27 to 45. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members, 30 to 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 28. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members, 30 to 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 28. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 29 to 45. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 28. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 30, for 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 28. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, for 31, for 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP, SNS to Article 45. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members, 30 to 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 47. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 to 9. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 52. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 50, for 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u444	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't have a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u445	The National Assembly will hold a third examination of the law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 18. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. They continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 1. We're voting. There were 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 21. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. I guess not. Mr Mitja Slavinec on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u446	Thank you very much. In the LDS Group, we will support the amendment. Here we point out that in order to rationalise, which is the aim of this article in the law, it is not necessary to establish a new structure with a new headmaster, but to rationalise, which of course we agree with ourselves, and this objective is also followed by our amendment, it is necessary to establish a good service, such a service that will indeed ensure that students in school have better food, that the school will be better cleansed, better maintained, and that at lower costs, so that these resources can then be allocated to other activities in school. For this purpose, the Centre shall be in the form of a centre as follows: [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, it's hard to say if I'm disturbed. [[...]] Usually, if it's a school law, then [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u447	I would like to ask if you would allow an explanation for the vote to be given to the Member of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u448	Thank you very much. As a result of this, we do not support the establishment of some roof centres with a supervisor, because, in the debate, it turned out that maybe the objectives could have been good, positive, in terms of rationalisation, it turned out that this rationalisation does not lead in the way that it would be good for our schools, that it does not lead to rationalisation of costs, but perhaps to rationalisation that the policy will make it easier for one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, one, or more schools to be set up in the centres of the United Nations. This is why we support the amendment that allows rationalisation, which the Minister spoke about, but also, of course, clearly and accurately determine how to do so. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and, of course, in such a way as not to create unnecessary additional costs, such as the formation of the councils of this centre, the director and other bodies. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u449	Thank you very much. We're voting. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Check-in is on. Mr. Slavko Gaber, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u450	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I will personally support this supplement. I think that the debate has proved more than obvious, and this has also been observed by quite a number of opposition members, that we do not need schools and kindergartens to act rationally, to take these entities of legal personality. There is no need to abolish schools, no need to abolish kindergartens, no need to confiscate legal entities so that certain administrative activities can be carried out together and more rationally. Since we are talking a lot in this House about how it is necessary to increase the autonomy of schools, how it is necessary for schools to be able to act on their own judgment, because they will act more rationally than under the country's conductor stick, it seems to us that such an addition, as it is here, may also be made possible in the third reading. Otherwise, we are here today to make it possible, in fact, for school centres, and from kindergarten to higher education. I do not know in any European country a modern trend that would go this way. Those who find this funny would be warmly encouraged to read at least a book in this area in their lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u451	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u452	The existing Article 7 already allows the establishment of the so-called intention of the Ministry of Education, if, of course, what the Minister says is true. However, if the intention is to set up a VIC, a training centre, at the provincial level, at the municipal level or at what level, then we have great differences in our approach to organising education. Therefore, in order to avoid unbridledness and to avoid doubt as to what the ministry really wants, I would support, and I suggest that you also remain supportive, an amendment establishing a public institution to carry out accompanying education and education activities. That's all this is about. If you do not support this amendment, if the existing text of the law is retained, then it is not logical why we have in the existing Article 7 text as it is. Above all, it will be possible to set up large, opaque entities at the municipal level and later at the provincial level, where the most important directors and teachers will be only large staff, in order to rationalise targeted education centres. Mr Jerovšek spoke today about the weaknesses of these systems.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u453	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u454	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 3 and the amendment to this Article make the matter clearer and more transparent, but does not confirm what has been said today that in practice these great centres will act as something positive. I know the case of one of the neighbouring municipalities where the director has given up on this system and in this story sadly has ended. I also think that funding from school centres so far, where this is linked both to principality and to this, has in practice not led to the results that you state by the Ministry. Practice on a few occasions that had some privileges and a subsidy cannot and cannot become a rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u455	Thank you very much. And Mr. Aleš Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u456	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support the amendment to this article because it is very clear and clear what Mr Minister or proposer himself has said as being the main objective. However, later in the debate, it was shown that the coalition Members also advocate in particular that these technical matters be linked and clearly those inter-class objectives, which, as proposed, are not clear to them. So if we combine everything that we value and then enable better school work, then surely this amendment needs to be supported. However, if we want to bring everything else through such an empty article, and above all different levels of decision-making, some levels are clearly lacking between the general and the military, and they need to be filled with supervisors, then this is it. It would be much preferable for me to speak frankly about it, not to hide it in empty boxes, which you will then be able to fill with any sublegal acts. Therefore, if you want to do well with Slovenian schools, even because of the experience we have with these large systems, such as they were built in the 1970s, and they were barely actually decommissioned in the 1990s, and if you want to maintain the autonomy of education and teaching, then vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u457	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 30 to 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 5. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 31, for 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 10. On behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote. Check-in is on. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar? [[You're giving up.]] Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u458	Thank you. In support of this amendment, I speak for some very important reason. We talked about a lot of things, especially about how many material preparers listened to the expert. The amendment, which advocates the deletion of Article 10, speaks precisely of the fact that the applicant is under-appreciated. The preparation of exam catalogues and catalogues, which have also been in the domain of the General Education Council for general education, is now being transferred to the Professional and Professional Education Council. The General Education Council, however, can only give an opinion that is not binding, is understandable. And here is the basis for such a proposal only the powerlessness of the current ministry in the dialogue with the profession. Since it has been a driver in the dialogue and in the work of the professional councils, even to the tension that has sometimes been leaking to the public, the simplest solution is to reduce the competences of the general education professional council. I appeal to everyone to support our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u459	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 32 to 43. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 11. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 32 to 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LSD, NP and SNS to Article 15. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 24. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 39. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 24. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 26. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, pardon, Dr. Gaber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u460	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The groups of Members have submitted an addendum to Article 26, which speaks of financing, in relation to the participants in education in that country. Keep this, which is why the coalition boasts that the financing of the chapters has withdrawn from primary schools. This seems to welcome, but when I am a supporter of integral funding or if you want to receive funding in a part of schools in Slovenia, it seems to me that this would increase the efficiency of spending, but I strongly oppose that we have a record that allows any minister or minister to decide to finance the chapters. This simply means that we will first close schools on the outskirts and schools that are educated for those professions that are already deficient. Such a record would have to be corrected so that there would never be an excuse for writing in this law. As this article shows, it appears to be seen in the Higher Education Act, where this system is already in operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u461	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 33 to 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 26. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u462	Thank you. Members and Members of Parliament are asking for support from this amendment, which speaks of the state budget providing funds for investments in schools with an adjusted programme. This is a problem with the establishment because children from different local backgrounds go to such schools. This is a limited number of schools, a major problem, but we could express concern for this group of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u463	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, for 31, for 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 29. Note: If the amendment is not adopted, the next two proposed amendments will become irrelevant to Articles 44 and 46. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members, 33 to 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As I said, the amendments to Articles 44 and 46 have become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 30. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Willy Trophynik? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our Group will also support this amendment, because we think that the one who could change our decision to support this law could, and we want to report it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u465	Thank you very much. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u466	Thank you very much. At the LDS, we have been at the LDS until now, and we will continue to advocate for as good a public education as possible and, of course, we will support this amendment as possible. Perhaps someone thinks that 15% is small, that it is a small change, but it is a systemic difference in funding that can and will, unfortunately, have far-reaching and irreparable consequences if the amendment is not adopted. It does not go so well that someone can view this as a mistrust to public education, to public education, which is certainly not bad now. Absolutely not. But as it is said, it is a systemic difference, because private schools have already been good with lower funding, they have been successful, which means that they received more than 15% from other sources if they were able to raise more financial shares and ensure their excellence in some way. No one has anything against this one, of course. If they are now fully funded, plus at least 20%, if they have already received more than 100 and 85, then it is in itself conditional that they will be refinanced compared to public schools. And this leads directly to a similar situation, a situation such as the dismantling of public health at the expense of private health. And that's what everyone feels when health care is always more accessible to those who can afford it. We certainly do not want that knowledge to be available at the start, at primary school, only to those who can afford it. Public education, public primary education must be as high as possible and accessible to all. In the debate, we drew attention to possible cases where the public school network could be compromised in certain environments at the expense of a private account. Also, the argument that it is a new acquisition, a new entry into the school system, is not true, because we do not have space distress. On the contrary, students are always smaller, meaning that each new private school means closing public schools. If this is going to be in a demographically threatened area, it's going to be so much worse. For all this, I propose that we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u467	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. While the mayors of the municipalities are asking for the Ministry to restore or maintain the public schools where our children and children of their children go, we are begging for five years, and we do not get the 'fick', the state will now generously pay the taxpayers' money paid by those parents of these children in these poor schools, for private schools, where the rich ladies and gentlemen and those with ties will, of course, take their children. They'll have 100% state support, new school, state-of-the-art equipment. Someone else will, because they have an interest, draw a tolar, two or hundreds, two or not, millions of euros, and some will carry the money there in a good way. Public schools are about to fail. Schools have no limits anymore. Those who have more will put them there, those who are poor, and they will throw them away. That's the point. Europe. Read it. You all wanted Europe, except for our party. Europe is a world for you. Read what the European Declaration on Private Education says. Not to say that Slovenia is two million, the smallest and the last. Don't talk. Look. Yes, private education, but regulated, not as stated in the article that we are correcting with this amendment, ladies and gentlemen. Right now, you're going to build something more for the rich people who already stole everything, so they can be gentlemen. And with that tax money that I can't fix five schools in the Rippers, I'm gonna have to close one up, you're gonna build new private schools and you're gonna go, gentlemen. If you adopt such a law, everyone will know and see and hear and read and remember that it is your fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u469	We have ended with an explanation of the votes of the groups of Members. I'm opening a new round of applications for self-explanation. Mr. Slavko Gaber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u470	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I'll back this up myself. I have more than good supplies for that. First of all, this supplement, if you read it carefully, goes a step further from the current regime and lowers the threshold of the required number of children for a private school to receive public finances. However, the second reason is widely discussed today. And that is the fact that I am convinced that it is Parliament's duty to take care of public education in this country first, and from kindergarten to vice versa. It is the duty of everyone who takes over the functions and who swears before this Parliament to have a public system before him first. Then it is his duty to enable the development of private work as well. In private, however, if I decide to send my child to a private school, I decide at the start that I will contribute to this. And if someone sets up a private school, it's clear in his right mind that he's also going to invest in this school. And today we're talking about it. If someone intends to establish private schools that will be elite at the expense of public funds and will be ideologically determined, then with all the support of private schools, I cannot give a vote for this. I am convinced that this article should be opened and that in the third reading, how to further develop private education and how to come up with a network of public education. On this basis, the quality of education is likely to be based in this country for a long time. That's why I support this supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u471	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u472	If this supplement is not accepted, the Beast School period will be recorded in history with two main features. Firstly, the reduction in the share of public money for education. And a second time. The favouring of private schools, i.e. within a reduced amount of money for public education, is why the demolition of the public education framework. I'm against favoring private schools. I'm not against private schools, but I'm against elite private schools and I'm against everyone getting the best possible education from public funds. I see no reason to add 15% of the capital return to potential investors. Today we discussed this very much and I think the debate has shown that we understand very differently the further development of public education in Slovenia. We think of him as an education that is no longer for everyone, but for those who can afford it. And for these, the country with today's system is likely to provide some unnecessary additional funding. Bad results from the Beast School period. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u473	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u474	Thank you for your word. Let's pour some pure wine. First and foremost, it should be pointed out that, during the term of office of this Government, the real share of the funds allocated to education has been increasing all the time, and this is essential in view of all previous periods. Here are the inexcusable numbers, colleagues and colleagues. This Government and this coalition are very well aware of their responsibilities towards education, until our generations, and have allocated the appropriate resources to this and have been fully supportive of the school system throughout its existence. What stems from this legislation is just looking for additional opportunities to enrich the school system as a whole. Not only ours, but also the warnings from Europe have gone in this direction that it is in attracting a private initiative in this part that it is possible to look for those resources that will further enrich education systems. This does not in any way endanger the public education system. This is illustrated by the experience of all countries that have introduced this in Europe in one way or another. This is really just to allow everyone under the same conditions to gain an education. And there are also many double criteria, colleagues and colleagues. You know well that among the biggest opponents of private education are people whose families have been trained in private schools, in part or in full. And what they have afforded to themselves is now not afforded to others. However, we want to make this possible for all, that there will be no social differences, that there will be a real constitutional right to choose parental education and education for their children, to whom we are certain [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They want the best and that, I'm sure, they deserve it. [[...]] This is a reflection of our trust in parents, our children and the future of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u475	The application for explanations of vote shall be pending. Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u476	Boiling wine is a special profession, so I'm very sensitive about who wants to pour me wine. Some have found that they have problems with numbers. In the case of numbers, it is important not only what number is cumulative, but also, in particular, for the means to which the funds are directed. And here I would have a thorough review of the distribution of funds to say and what to show. I will support this amendment because I am convinced that we are embarking on an irresponsible and dangerous adventure called the extension of private education. If we follow America, in many ways, in America, parents begin to raise money at the birth of a child so that they can send him to a private school. Here some assure us there will be no tuition. Where? As it is written, the article allows for all other possibilities for additional contributions from parents who will otherwise not have the title "school", because for that part which will be financed from public funds, something such as this will not be allowed, because I hope that any financial supervision will also be announced, but everything else is actually a great "lari fari". You're talking about fear, you're talking about fear. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] on the issue of threat. [[...]] None of that. I'm not afraid of private schools, I don't feel threatened either. Thank God, I already have some schools behind me, but it's about what kind of school we want in the future. And so far our school tradition has been built at a high-quality public school. And until we reach a national consensus on something else, it is right that, as it is, it remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u477	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u478	I only ask the President if he can read the text of Article 88 of the Law aloud, because only this text would put the words just said in the right light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u479	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna do this, but we're moving on. Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u480	Thank you very much. Because I do not want to distinguish in Slovenia in general education and vocational education because of the social conditions in which our descendants live, our children, our young people, I will support this amendment. And there's another reason. This is because we are hearing about the unforgivable numbers that the state budget is talking about, and at the same time this is said by the person who has ensured that we will have better public television and that the subscription will not be increased. In 2004, 4.8% of the gross domestic product was allocated to education, 4.63% of the gross domestic product was fixed in the 2008 budget, and 4.43% of the gross domestic product in the 2009 government programming document, which means EUR 120 million or say that the budget is unforgivable about numbers. That's why I'm going to support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u481	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u482	Of course, I consider this supplement or acceptance of this supplement to be "contitio sone qua non", which is said to be a condition without which the law is not entirely acceptable to me. Of course, I would also expect this government, although I was often disappointed to try to raise the quality of public education in the first place, but not in this way, by this provision of Article 30, to actually privilege private primary education at the expense of public education. And the response of the professional public, as well as others, was a serious signal to me that this article is not acceptable and I consider it the broadest consensus that would be necessary to introduce such a provision that has such far-reaching implications for the development of our public education. And I ask this Government whether it is already in such a desperate position that it is already showing an unequivocal message that it will lose its next national elections. It's the only way I can explain such aggressive force with this provision. And if she is already aware that she is likely to lose the next election, what position does she put the owners and managers of private primary schools in, but if the next government will eventually abolish this provision. I think that this is a completely insurmountable approach, which is why only if you accept this amendment can I believe that some attempt has been made to achieve the widest possible consensus in this area and in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u483	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u484	Thank you very much. If you allow and if you want to lie to people, or if this article is really in the same form as it is written, it gives everyone the same possibility, why does the same person who claims it publicly say that because they will have a double-funding private school, this undoubtedly means that teachers' salaries can be higher in private schools? And this undoubtedly means the draining of quality personnel from public schools to private schools. Who can lie to a respected colleague and colleague? Or I don't understand this kind of equality or equal opportunity. No, I'm saying that this article, 100% and some private education funding at the expense of public education, is an ugly act. The ugly play not only of the good system we have, but of all of us and the general public. I will support the amendment because the amendment actually allows not only the prevention of political or some politicisation, the creation of elitism, but [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] If we support the amendment, this means that we can still discuss and seek an appropriate solution in the third reading. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u485	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Check-in is on. Mr. Aleš Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u486	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues, I will of course support this amendment. The main reason for this is that I know roughly how public education is after as much singing Europe as we have heard. In Denmark, for example, they had to change even the School Buildings Act so that they could teach them. The law, which was previously applicable to industrial buildings and school buildings, was simply such that almost all schools should be closed because they were poorly maintained. So it was public money. Of course, something very similar can happen here. The Minister has repeatedly said how all these things need to be rationalised, how even the VICs should be established, in order to be more rational, so that more money remains to be left behind, I don't know what. Here, however, 15% of the money will be paid for private schools which are already in some other way co-financed, given that we know that they are financed by very, very rich institutions can. Surely, though, they are happy to have someone else do something for them, especially making a lot of money. This, of course, leads mainly to the decommissioning of public education, at the same time [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But of course it also means a very bad journey, I will not say about our children, but at least about our grandchildren and grandchildren, because my children are fortunately past these experimental school tricks that are now being prepared. [[...]] And there's one more thing that seems important to me. It's obvious that this power wants to be pure at this point in time. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] This is an investment in a far-reaching future for the population to manage it more easily. [[...]] We know who usually thinks so far. And another thing is, before she moves out of the government rooms, she wants to break everything in there.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u487	Thank you. Mr. Mitja Slavinec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u488	Thank you very much. We have heard a lot about this also in various arguments that it is only about financing the work relating to the execution, not the equipment, of the buildings. If we are very precise, even now the founder cares for, as we may have heard from our colleague Barovic with some problems, buildings. This is why we need to be more careful about the situation in public education and I am not against private schools, nor am I against creating good schools to create excellence, I guarantee, I have always ensured excellence in schools, in the education system at all. But once again, not on the basis of the basic level that we have to offer to all primary schoolchildren who expect it in some context from public education. Why am I stressing from public education? Look, if a good private school is set up now, great, but at the expense of that, they'll close public school because there's not enough kids, they'll go there. That would be great if we could all go to this better private school right now. However, we were able to read in the newspaper who can be enrolled in one of the now - established schools. Those who, among other things, accept their world view. So someone has two choices: whether to accept the world view of this private school or to drive about 20 kilometers away to the first public school. These are the things we're pointing to. These are dangers, and we must by no means agree to such a legal solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u489	Thank you. Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u490	Thank you very much. I will not support this amendment. And all of these discussions, even now in front of me, show that it is not a problem in this 15%, so it is not a problem in the financial sense, but in the still ongoing ideological, cultural warfare. This is a problem, and this has also been demonstrated by all this debate. Today we have 4 Catholic high schools in Slovenia. And if someone says these schools are elite, then they're not elite because of this 15%, but because of the content and all the work that has to be invested in being like them. But if you're talking about quality public education, and I agree here, it's quality, you have to have another school on the other hand to compare with something. If you can't compare, then it's hard to talk about some quality. That's what it's all about. So I have something to compare with. And even today, these private schools, which have already been and have been created by Mr Gaber's Minister, have a very large social component. Fearing the public that these schools will be closed to those students who are unable to attend such schools socially is not the case today. These four Catholic high schools can receive education and can also include socially endangered students, since all these schools have special funds to help these students. And that's how it's gonna be in the future. And it is only right that this should be arranged in the way the Government has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u491	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u492	Thank you for your word. Three things have to be said here. This article, which regulates the financing of private education, will set up a different way of financing that we are now witnessing to him. Today we have seven private schools, one of which is primary. In six private high schools we finance three percent and three 85%. And at least what it is that we eliminate this discrepancy, because there is no reason or tell me one clever reason why we would differently finance six private schools, three by one system, three by one. With the article proposed, we will eliminate this discrepancy. Second thing. It is not true that salaries in private schools will be different from those in public schools. Wages are regulated by a collective agreement. You all know that and don't twist and explain something that doesn't hold. The third thing is the public network. With such a concern for the public network, I've already said that there are seven private schools today. Ten or twenty of them may be established, but this will still not endanger the 800 schools we have today. In addition, the Ministry is aware that there is a need to protect the public network, so we have written in Article 87, which everyone can read and you know that school-bound children are guaranteed the right to enroll in a school environment in which they live, irrespective of the existence of a private primary school. We stop wasting the fog. For these three reasons, I will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-26-SDZ4-Redna-31.ana.u493	We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD, LDS, NP and SNS to Article 48. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 30, for 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. The bill's proposal is government. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 71 Members and Members present, 47 to 11. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll resume work tomorrow at nine o'clock. Good night!
