ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down, take your seats. Good-bye. I begin the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Stanislav Brenčič, mag. Branko Grims, Ivan Jelen, Joseph Jerovšek, Milan Petek, Villa Rezman, Janko Weber and Davorin Targeton. I invited the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša to the first item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the third item and the Ombudsman of Human Rights and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 20th item of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 18 May 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The LDS Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups to obtain the opinion of the President of the State. You received a motion to withdraw today with a letter. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? Here you go, Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In our Group of Members, we propose that this item withdraw from the agenda for both substantive and procedural reasons. If we look at the subject on the substantive side, then it must be found that the President of the Republic has performed his constitutional and legal obligations regarding the appointment of the Governor. He twice made a proposal, first for the old governor, second for Governor Rant's vice-presidents, giving all the necessary explanations. Later, his office also provided explanations regarding the complications of appointment. Thus, it is absolutely not necessary to include this on the content side. The matter, however, has its procedural side, which is equally important if it is not more important. In all respects, Mr President, and you well know this, this is an inappropriate and extremely controversial procedure. In this unprecedented and extremely controversial process, you will submit the will of the coalition and Janša in order to impose its Governor on the Republic of Slovenia. And that's, I'll say, unacceptable. The proposal, as formulated, does not allow discussion. You say the vote will be procedural. Procedural voting, however, is usually linked to a point. The point to be discussed is that you reject the debate on this proposal and that is why such a proposal is also unacceptable for the National Assembly and should be rejected as President if he acted in favour of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening the application procedure. Mr. Lakhovnik, on behalf of the unrelated Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u4	Your Honor! In our Group, we really believe that the proposal is poorly prepared to be problematic both in terms of content and in terms of formality. At the College of the National Assembly, Dr Cerar, the elected legal representative, pointed out that the question or proposal was vaguely formulated. Even if the President of the country wanted to, he could not answer such a general question. The other thing is that the applicants had a week's time to change the question and to make a substantive adjustment, and they didn't. It should also be pointed out that the answer to the question when it is drawn up by the President of the State can only be placed on the agenda with regard to the election point of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. A particularly controversial aspect seems to us to be substantive. In fact, the President of the State has already sent a proposal for the appointment of governors to the National Assembly and has twice referred to a credible candidate. Both were rejected in a secret ballot. The opportunity arose in public or was publicly known to have offered this town to Dr. Dusan Maramor. As soon as his name appeared in the public eye, of course, he too was repulsed by a reptile of unwarranted critics, saying that he was not politically independent. These eyewitnesses have become a great farce. No later than Thursday last week, when the government appointed Mrs Alenko Pavlin as head of the Slovenian Press Agency, the former head of the SDS Group and later employed in the cabinet of Prime Minister Alenko Pavlin. And I'm not talking here about the controversy in terms of her personal or professional references, I'm talking about the issue that there is political dependence on a whole range of candidates. On the other hand, politically similar candidates are easily named to the most responsible places, including those in charge of communication with the media. In short, we have witnessed some strange practice over the last period, which culminated in this call to the President of the State to resolve the complication that arose in the National Assembly by rejecting credible candidates. We think that such a proposal is absurd and in our parliamentary group we will vote against it because we want to take such initiatives, which obviously have only one political dimension - on the attack on the President of the country, of course we want to avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Žnidaršič, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Democratic Party of Pensioners supports the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda of the National Assembly, as our party, although the coalition party was unable to support the requirement to include this issue on the agenda of the National Assembly. The reason, however, is quite simple - our party estimates that during the period when he was looking for a candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, the President of the State has always acted reasonably and legally. The point that he did not invite representatives of the Group to consultations is not justified, as the law does not provide for it as a compulsory form; on the other hand, the President of the State has little experience in such consultations, which have sometimes produced no success, despite the previous assurances he received in the course of the consultations. On the other hand, I am confident that the President of the country will invite the presidents of the Group to a preliminary consultation in further procedures. We think that this is good and right, and we will attend such consultations. But we certainly don't want to start a controversy that isn't about finding the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, but it's about pouring oil on the fire of the dispute between the two presidents, and in no way do we and we don't want to participate. As a result, this point, even by its content, is not included in the meeting of the National Assembly. We, of course, do not think that such a prepared point cannot be classified and therefore we support the withdrawal. We believe that this is also right and fair to the institution of the President of the State, which certainly cannot be a polygon where we would argue about matters that are less necessary for this country than many others.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Potch, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the request for withdrawal of the agenda item to address the opinion or position of the President of the State regarding the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is justified. On 18 May, the Group of the Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party proposed to the President of the National Assembly that the National Assembly request the President of the Republic to deliver an opinion within 15 days to the National Assembly on the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. When we discussed this at the College of the National Assembly, Dr Cerar warned that the draft decision was not corrected, it was not sufficiently clear and that the National Assembly could not conclude on it. On this basis, as far as we are aware, Mr President, you have written to the three groups of Members a clear request in which you have warned them that the proposals for a decision are too precise and clear and that you expect the groups of Members to present a proposal to supplement the decision to you by this week, back to 21. We note that we are not informed whether the completion of the decision is ready. Until we see this, we believe that there are no formal conditions for dealing with this item on the agenda. We ask that, according to your letter, which was clear and specific - if not, let us look at it together and make it available to us - find out for yourself that the conditions for this are not met. The second reason for meeting the conditions already mentioned today is that you will not allow us to hold a debate on this point when we request that this point be discussed, but you demand that it be discussed only as a procedural proposal, for which there is no explanation under our Rules of Procedure. And a third reason. All the leaders of the parliamentary groups, Members and Members have already been informed from the President's office of what has been done so far so that this National Assembly can decide on the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and we all know that the decisions on the proposals have not been taken because they have not been supported by those three parliamentary groups that today require that a general debate be held on this matter. So I suggest you figure out for yourself the inability to talk about [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Tanko on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda in the parliamentary group. The fact is, the situation in the field or in the governor's elections is not good. The candidates proposed by the President did not receive a sufficient number of votes of support and I do not think that this is the whole fault of the coalition, but there were also many other votes missing. For if we consider how many votes individual candidates have received, then a significant proportion of the opposition has also contributed to the non-election, and it also has a certain role to play in this process. I think that the procedure for electing the Governor is a very serious issue for the Republic of Slovenia. I think there are certain problems, because the candidates proposed by the President of the Republic for election do not receive support. We are also faced with the fact that many of the candidates - we have learned this only later from the media, which the President has invited to the nominations only this has not been confirmed or listened to and rejected. But I think the National Assembly is also because it decides the place where the conversation is to be held. After all, there is also a relationship at work, a constitutional relationship between the National Assembly and the President of the Republic, and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly commit and establish a procedure for how this communication should be carried out. I must say that I would just use some of the words of the past days, when one of the eminent former politicians said that the President of the country was not elected to see nothing, he heard nothing that he would not say anything. And I think, given the situation in the governor's election, it's actually very necessary for the President of the Republic to see something, say something, and hear something. And I think it is very unfair for the National Assembly to deny him the right which it has under the Constitution and which is also imposed and the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I think that the National Assembly should be the first to listen to this right, and that is why we will not support these requests for withdrawal from the agenda of the Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Pece, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u12	Your Honors are here! Despite the fact that we believe in communication within the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe in the establishment of dialogue, so that different parties face arguments on different shores, but of course such a proposal as is currently on the agenda and given by the SDS, SLS and New Slovenia Members of Parliament cannot be attached. Even if we look at the schedule of the scheduled time to deal with the point on Thursday, we see that the way in which the ruling parties have chosen in terms of and under the pretext of positive communication is kind of banal. Three minutes, three minutes, you determine or predict that a single parliamentary group will be available. So, the whole parliamentary group. In addition, it is not envisaged that Mr Drnovšek would be invited to speak on his own in the said report by the President of the State, which means that he would also be invited to speak at this assembly. So, what kind of communication can you talk about? According to my assessment and, of course, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party's Group, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is attempting to transfer the so-called artificial war between the President of the Government and the President of the Republic to the National Assembly, so that, of course, it can avoid this own egotistic and, above all, very negative game. In the National Party's Group of Members, we have already said that we will not participate in this type of work, at least in any way, in any way of discrediting one or the other, especially in pursuing the objective of not doing any harm, and in particular in the shame of this National Assembly. The fact is that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian legislation in this area are clear. We know the powers of the President of the Republic and we know what the powers of the National Assembly are. In doing so, it is important to stress whether there are really problems in staffing, whether there are fundamental rights to propose under the title of the President of the Republic of Slovenia or under the title of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And when one of the speakers before me mentioned political recruitment, ladies and gentlemen, because we have witnessed this political recruitment in the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia since the very beginning of the mandate. Such political staffing, which results in individual privileged positions in the context of the calls - what is happening within the framework of the Drava Power Plants, Maribor and similar things - has never before been so much confidence from any of the ruling Members, or in the integrity of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to support such a debate in the framework of the National Assembly. Therefore, once again, the National Party's Group will not support this farce that is being established and adapted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the ruling SDS parties, NSI and, of course, the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you. This concludes the list of applicants and leads us to a decision-making process. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. There must be an orange light on the right side. We will decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 36. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed withdrawal is not accepted. We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that the agenda be extended by considering the proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities, a necessary procedure. You received an extension proposal on 25 May 2007. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We then move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda for the consideration of that bill. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, for whom 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as the 8th item of the agenda on Friday 1 June 2007 after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. We are now moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received with a reference and a follow-up. We're voting. The vote on the agenda is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it that the agenda for the 28th meeting of the assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. for the first item on the agenda, which is for questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u14	Dear Members, honourable Members and Ministers! Please take your seats and calm down. Thank you. And at the same time, please turn off your phones. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written notifications from 22 Members and Members within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2) of Article 245 and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The following will be Finance Minister Andrej Bajuk and Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak answered the questions raised at the 24th, 25th and 27th meetings of the assembly, which they could not answer due to their absence. It's a Magnificent message. Majda Potrat, who has submitted two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who are registered ask one question. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government or ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised to the major ministers, they all have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. I ask Members and Members of Parliament to pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs Dimitrij Rupel from 15.40 p.m. and Secretary General of the Government mag. Oh, my God. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government or the Minister must submit a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. You have received a review of the questions sent and initiatives which have not yet been answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. In this regard, I inform you that Mrs Maria Pozsonec and Mr Miro Petek have added to the issues raised because they were of local importance at first. The question also changed, Mr Miran Potrč, because the original question to the President of the Government was not raised from the field of operation and competence of the Government. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. The first question will be asked by Mr Jožef Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the House. Mr. President of the Government! The characteristics of this government and the ministers of the coalition are to avoid any discussion of their responsibilities in Parliament and in the public. They're also avoiding the media. In order not to have to answer, you have invented a series of circuits, instead of speaking in Parliament, you have established a development partnership and now a non-aggression pact. You've also signed an ethical code that no one's practically keeping and how it's implemented, no one knows. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you why you signed this code and how do you implement it? Why, for example, did you prevent Minister Virant from identifying himself as the author of this code of conduct for Minister Bozič when he ordered a commission to bring him, his family and the secretary of state to Ljubljana? Why is there a disputed funding for the transport of medics for you, but it is not disputed that Minister Rupel resigns the car and the driver to help the lady with her household chores? Since these things cannot be discussed in Parliament, I conclude that you are speaking elsewhere. Since you have promised to report everything to the public in the Code and to act transparently, I am interested in what you have done with regard to the implementation of the Code in these cases?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you for asking. It is true that at the beginning of the mandate, in addition to the usual commitments arising from the oath to respect the rule of law and to work for the welfare of Slovenia, this government has set higher standards, which are enshrined in the so-called code of ethics. Nobody forced us to do that. Even in previous governments, this has not been the usual practice, and I must say that we are seriously aware of this code in the government, and that there have been significantly higher ethical standards in this mandate than before. The answer would be a debt if we listed all the savings that we have saved taxpayers, or the funds we have saved in such a way that even within some legal options, the cheaper options are chosen, that or that many members of the Government have also given up legitimate diaries, and that a number of measures have been taken to rationalise work beyond what is absolutely necessary in accordance with the law. Now, some of the concrete comparisons that you mentioned would not be further commented. The government has never defined itself to any healer, nor has it made certain points in public in this way, as it later did in the media. And I can assure you that no minister of this government or his wife has ever financed themselves with any black funds, which we could not say for anyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, I'm disappointed in you. You haven't answered a simple question, and instead of telling me what you did to your violators, you're pointing your fingers at others again. In the Code, for example, you and your ministers will act economically with public funds by achieving the best possible effect of their use. That's what you've been talking about. I ask you in this light how you look at the actions of Minister Bručan, who has agreed to go beyond the call for funding for helicopter rescue, how do you view this cheaper option of buying tables that continue to deteriorate and so on, as you look at it, I will say, in accordance with the ethical code, the conduct of Minister Podobnik in connection with the rehabilitation of the beach? And I'd like to ask you for specific answers. You know, with ethics, we have people who teach it in college, and we have those who have just signed this code before you, and we expect to see in any case how concrete they act, and is that or is it controversial for you?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u20	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u21	Of course, it is also possible to define certain matters in this way, as you have now done in this question. This may even be common to opposition parliamentary questions, but it does not mean that this is, of course, all true. As far as the beach is concerned; you probably think about the rehabilitation of the Plaza in Logo under Mangarto; there is a revision of the entire procedures at the request and order of the Minister and when the revision is completed we will be able to talk about this or where something was wrong. I have no doubt that it will turn out to be just there or just there that it was written about. As for helicopter transports, not just me, but also the competent minister, I was already in charge of this National Assembly. It's a double arrangement. Under the Public Procurement Act, the tender was necessary, under the Protection and Rescue Act, and the procedure was carried out under one law. When the government found that there was also a different arrangement and that they were in conflict, the decision changed. The first procedure was cancelled and in this regard the Government acted absolutely in accordance not only with the legislation but also with the ethical code. We could peacefully insist that the law permits this and move on despite such and other criticisms. There was this possibility. Lawyers weren't the only ones around here, so in this case looking for a violation of the ethical code, I don't think it's in place. This, of course, does not mean that every individual act is always and, at any time, right, wherever it is done, mistakes are also made. The difference between this mandate and previous mandates is that when such errors are identified, we try to correct them. This cited case in relation to helicopter transport also falls under this category. The government could peacefully insist that the Minister acted in accordance with the Law on Protection and Rescue, which is the primary law here and would not be wrong. In no court with such a case would it fall, but we have concluded that it is more fair, that in this case we also act in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and that the first procedure was cancelled.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the business arrangements, I propose that we hold a debate on this answer. The debate should be held for two reasons. First, because I see that the Prime Minister is deeply embarrassed when he struggles with the answers to these questions, and secondly because of what he said in the introduction, he advocates a higher standard of conduct for his team. What I would like to propose to the Prime Minister is to allow, for once in this assembly, at least the lower standard, is that the National Assembly can discuss the mistakes of ministers, this has not been possible so far, I assume that this has been agreed in the coalition, and if you have any words, then I suggest that you allow your Members to support such a proposal tomorrow in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr Školč's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The next one will ask the Prime Minister a question, Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government! The appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is an important issue for us. As Prime Minister of the Government, you said, among other things, to the question of journalists about Dr. Marble's possible candidacy for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia: "I must say, I am surprised that the President of the Republic is only looking for candidates within the rounds of former ministers of the Liberal Democracy, as if this is the only profession Slovenia has to overcome." This statement was made meaningfully by the leaders of SDS and New Slovenia. Dr. Dusan Maramor did not give his consent to the candidacy. On the question of journalists, how he assesses the statements made by coalition parties, he stated that these statements made it easier for him to make a decision to thank him for the invitation. The facts are indisputable. Once again, the coalition, and you too, Mr President, has helped to create a negative picture and politicisation of the candidate, making it difficult for him to accept the candidacy and the possibility of being decided by the National Assembly as a candidate. Mr President of the Government, irrespective of formal competences, your public statements in this and similar cases certainly have an important impact on the resolution of social tasks or even more on whether these tasks are not carried out. In this particular case, it is the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, and I therefore ask you: First time. Are you assessing that the failure of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia has already affected the functioning of the Government, its preparations and the success of the preparations for the Presidency of the European Union? Another time. With what arguments they would reject the assessment that the inability to elect the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is just one more proof and an example of your Government's policy, which, from the beginning, has been applying the practice of appointing to all the more important economic and other public political and economical functions only its own, as you say, your policy or even your personally compatible personnel. This is the subject of any more important decision and it is appropriate to clarify such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you for asking. I don't know where to start this answer, because I think the point of the question is a little bit unusual. My novel wasn't entirely quoted either. I have repeated, including to this candidate, that we expect or that we all want the President of the Republic to respect the practice so far, which, after minor or major problems, has always led to the election of the candidate. That we have more than a decade of experience here, and that we would finally really like the President to consult with those who decide on this function. These are the Members of this National Assembly. However, I answered the question about the neutrality of the candidates as you quoted, and I will repeat it again. It is unacceptable that double standards for determining political independence are being introduced in this country. That's unacceptable. The two candidates, who were proposed or who appeared in public, were ministers in the quota of the Liberal Democracy, in political functions, publicly and politically recognised. One of them also sat in the parliamentary seats of the political group. Both candidates were claimed, including the applicant, to be politically independent and large experts. They were both experts, and no one was politically independent. At the same time, the candidate, who also submitted to the invitation to tender, claimed to be an expert but politically dependent. I don't know from whom and by what criteria, because he was never a member of any party - at least I don't know - or anyone ever put him on the ballot or politically never defined him. It is said that one who is not politically defined and who has never been politically defined for SD or LDS is politically dependent, but one who can run on SD or LDS lists is politically independent. These are the criteria for political independence that are actually unsustainable. Just such a view of the matter, such a creation of virtual reality, has brought the matter so far that the Bank of Slovenia still does not have a governor. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the Court of Auditors did not have a President or was elected only in the fourth attempt, but no one at that time spoke of the state being in crisis or of any institution in crisis. I am pleased that the applicant has finally come to realize that such a path is not going anywhere and that, as far as I know, he is finally ready to consult the parliamentary groups. Unfortunately, it took too long.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you very much. If possible, I would only ask the President to answer my basic question, or to have the election have something to do with the Government's preparation for the Presidency of the European Union, because he has probably overlooked it. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the criteria that the government has in place in the public are, in particular, criteria that repeatedly show that political compatibility is also needed. In Slovenia, as we are, it is probably very common that professionally qualified people in their past have been more or less politically involved and should not, Mr President, take any opportunity and rights to be candidates at any time later. But if, over and over again, you, as Prime Minister of the Government and the ruling coalition, point out that political belonging to clients who are not close to your current coalition is wrong and does not create a basis for a quality performance of certain tasks, then I don't think it's good. However, as regards the practice so far, I would like to remind you that the consultations with the parliamentary groups have been for one of the candidates and have been of no use to them. Consultations with you personally regarding Dr. Gaspari's candidate before Slovenia's admission or the entry into force of the euro, and at that time, for all of you personally, he was a suitable and good candidate, when he was officially proposed, and the agreement to his candidacy was suddenly questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u31	I really don't remember ever consulting Mr Potrče about the candidates for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. I've consulted with people, but it's always in my sight, and I'm surprised that those who haven't been around are explaining it in such a credible way and it's still wrong. And I've also always given an opinion, which I've also made public afterwards. As regards the fact that Slovenia does not yet have the Governor of Banka Slovenije on the EU Presidency, I do not know what impact this should have. The Bank of Slovenia will not chair the European Central Bank at this time. There's no special role here. Things work pretty well. At a time when we do not have the Governor of Banka Slovenije the financial system is also stable, the economic results are very good and this did not cause any crisis. However, it is embarrassing, especially because of the reasons why this situation has occurred. It is true that people who are professionally good and are also politically engaged and that this must not be a handicap. However, this must apply to both sides. In this Chamber, for example, he voted in favour of Dr. Jambrek as Judge for Human Rights, for a European judge, he was peacefully scolded for political affiliation, and for Barbara Brezigar she was scaffolded. They are both top experts, and those words were not heard by SD Members at the time. These criteria must apply to both sides. The obvious fact that this government appoints to the responsible places only compatible is not absolute. If we now count the party membership in the structures that decide in the state administration, the SD's share would certainly be significantly higher depending on your electoral outcome. This government has also promised to appoint opposition representatives in the supervisory councils of public enterprises where the state has majority ownership and influence. And she kept that word. Representatives of the opposition are still sitting in all the most important public companies, in the supervisory councils. Some have resigned, but the most important are still. Representatives of the opposition are in both parastatal funds, Kad and Sod, Telekom Slovenije, Holding of Slovenian power plants, Novi KBM, in Posta Slovenije and in many other smaller companies. We, when we were the opposition, couldn't even dream of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Potch? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I propose that a vote be taken on the response of the President of the Government on the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I believe that, in the course of the discussion on the answer, it will be possible to say and ask you, Mr President, what, given the fact that you are assessing that the Bank of Slovenia is not a particular problem for us as a country, is the requirement of your three parliamentary groups that this should be discussed in particular and that the response of the President of the Government should be sought. I wanted to ask you this as a question, but I couldn't, I didn't get permission, although, in my opinion, it was the functioning of the coalition, but the president decided so and I wanted to be disciplined. The answer to this question may also show your position. For we are convinced that it would be good for the coalition to be aware of its full operation, not only when it corresponds, but then the president of the coalition and have an impact on the functioning of coalition parties, when it does not suit it, says "it is a matter of parliamentary groups and they act as they wish". Secondly, I think it would be very useful that there is also a debate on human resources policy, that you will not be able to cite just individual cases, so that we can also cite many other cases, because this is not the case. Above all, if there has ever been a bad practice in the past, Mr President, you have promised that under your rule it will grow better and otherwise - it will not. It is worse, and this is what we would like to say in the debate, in answer to our question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u34	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide on tomorrow's issues. The following question will be posed by Dr Gantar to the Prime Minister of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President of the Government, my question is very simple: Why are you doing this, you, your Government and, of course, your Minister for Higher Education and Science? Is it really necessary to come on a day with a fast-tracked law on higher education and scientific development, prepared by three interested professors, with solutions that are very extensive, radical and change the nature of universities and research without having to hold a major public debate in academic circles, among students, with the economy on the objectives and also on the ways of change? Without considering the possible deliberate and unwitting consequences or such radical and ill-conceived changes? Slovenia cannot afford to lose its talent because of another unimaginable reform; we had more than enough before 1990; we cannot lose our talents in a small country; we cannot lose great potential - we cannot. And what is the point, Mr President, of systematically interfering with the autonomy of universities and research activities by separating directoral and rectoral functions? True, you are already interfering with the autonomy of research organizations, but what does this lead to? Why do we stop this autonomy, and what do we want to do about it? Is it wise to swear to the abolition of the university's legal autonomy and the possibility of individual faculties to secede at a time when, in fact, the Bologna Process tries to achieve the integration of different fields of study, interdisciplinaryness and interdisciplinaryness between universities, programmes and, of course, teachers. The fast-composed universities and private programmes, which are very fond of this bill, will be put at risk by such a Bologna process and will not accelerate the development of knowledge in Slovenia. Your Minister without a passport, Dr. Mark Turk, always stresses three T's: talent, technology and tolerance. Mr. Prime Minister, where is the tolerance? We have not seen her in the accounts with the students in the last days when they protested and we do not see her in the responses of the law-makers to criticisms and concerns about marriage. Therefore, Mr President, I simply ask you: Do you support the content and method of drafting the Higher Education and Research Act as prepared by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you for asking. But in these questions, the Member who asks questions saves the main question for his third performance when he proposes a debate and then I do not have the opportunity to answer. I think this is an obvious abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which was never allowed in the previous term. Now this tolerance is greater, so I will also answer Mr Školč, who said that the opposition has no opportunity to discuss ministers. The opposition filed two interpolations, and for a few days you discussed two ministers. There's a possibility. Anyone who has 10 Members may intervene at any time but must have some substantial reason to do so. I would say to Mr Potrče that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the President of the Republic may communicate his opinion to the National Assembly while at the same time asking the President of the Republic for his opinion on a certain matter. This is a provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and any Member proposes something like this, acting strictly in accordance with the Constitution. As far as the Higher Education Act is concerned, Mr Gantar, there is no such law. The Government has not considered any Higher Education Act, no government committee has dealt with any Higher Education Act, no coalition coordination has been established on any Higher Education Act. What is at this point in the debate is a resolution on higher education, which has been fully aligned with the university sphere and which the National Assembly will first consider, then a concept will be established, and when the law is ready, it will follow this concept. The Minister sent the professional public thesis on the draft law because he wanted to gain time and because he wanted to get certain preliminary opinions on material that had no legal interference. This working material was marked as internal, and was not intended for a broader discussion because it is not such a form and content either. Those who received this material misused the Minister's goodwill, it was not his duty to do so in a preliminary procedure and a debate began on a law that did not exist. That's not the law. I didn't read the working material either, because it's raw, I don't have enough time to read dozens of drafts that arise before the government sends the law to the hearing. From one draft to becoming a proposal for a law that goes into government procedure first, coalition coordination, coordination within the Partnership for Development, is a long way to go. So, speaking at this stage about the law and defining ourselves to the law, is pure manipulation, pure manipulation. The Slovenian public is now convinced that the government has proposed a law that will support universities. This is total nonsense. The changes in the law when they come to this National Assembly will go in the direction of economic and social reform measures. This direction is indicated in a resolution that has been aligned to the practically last letter, which you will first address and the direction of the changes that will be drafted by the law, will go in the direction of urgent adaptation of Slovenian higher education to the challenges of time. That we're not exactly in a high place here, and you probably don't have to be very convincing. So, really, let's save all these criticisms and all these ideas for a debate on the law, for when it will be, and now you're talking about work materials that no institution is behind.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u38	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that I am very pleased, I have witnessed the unusual beginning of the Prime Minister's reply, and I would ask you if I can complement Mr Školč and Mr Portec's question, and then we will have a general discussion. I am certainly also honored, of course, because I am one of those few Members of this National Assembly who asks the President of the Government something before anything happens, it is said that I actually have the power of prediction and determination, and I have the power to ask about something that is not yet, which is a rare trait in politics. However, Mr President, it did not happen, nor is it likely that one owner of two private colleges, one prodecan, one of the private colleges, and one lecturer at this university prepared a working draft law which, under the Law on Access to Public Information, should be marked as a draft with a mandatory instruction, of course, that it does not go into abuse, a document of the Government, so that the document can be changed and so on. It should be published in one way or another on the website of the Ministry or Government and believe me, it is not, I have been browsing the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology for quite some time today. In spite of all this, I believe that such laws are not done in this way. Even those that are not yet there, Mr President of the Government. Something more needs to be done, we need to try to draw different ideas together and actually look at whether and what the objectives of these changes are. That wasn't done. That is why, Mr President of the Government, when what is not yet here, on the website or anywhere else, we will be strongly involved in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u41	True, the draft law is published on the government's websites, but when it is a draft law. What the Minister sent to the opinion of the section of the professional public was not a draft law, was not published on the website and there was no legal basis for it. So it's actually now debated about the issues that are at this point in the creation, in terms of marriage thesis, like 50, 60 and here is actually abuse of the Ministry's willingness to transmit this material to others at an early stage, when the material is still very raw when nothing has been verified, not even within the government procedure. I think it was a mistake because well-intentioned behavior turned completely different. So, I really suggest we save all these good ideas for a time when the law will actually be in the debate, there will be enough room, enough opportunity, we are absolutely open to taking good solutions into account. I will not say anything new if I say that there is a high consensus in Slovenia, regarding the fact that knowledge is our only strategic capital that we can invest in faster development, so this is a common interest and I think that it is actually now a waste of energy and time in the debate about whether it is a work draft or one of the versions of the draft envisaged something, which is why we organize round tables, protests, threatening with sentences, which is really a waste of time. The time will come when these ideas will need to be put together when a good law is needed and I suggest we save this energy for then.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u43	The President, on the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a discussion be held, however, on the response of the President of the Government. I think we need to agree with Mr President of the Government here in the National Assembly on what are the facts and what are not the facts. Back, after this marriage, this draft, draft law has experienced quite a strong criticism, you are trying to relativize its meaning and even regret that it has not been published on the internet and has not really been. So there's nothing to regret. I regret that it has not been published on the Internet because it should be, as a working draft and this also requires the Act on Access to Public Information. If not, ask the relevant minister who is involved. As a working draft, it should be published at a time when the subject is a public debate and this is known in advance. However, I would say in particular that the topic is too important and that it is also right to discuss the objectives that new legislation is intended to bring in this area, also in the National Assembly and in the accounts, and I hope that this proposal, colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Gantard to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question on the matter, will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Jožef Horvat will put the next question to the Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, ministerial assembly, distinguished Mr President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! On 16 this month, Slovenia received an invitation in Paris to negotiate full membership in the OECD Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In last June, an application was renewed to join this organization, an elite group of the most developed countries in the world. Slovenia may have missed the first opportunity when the OECD adopted four post-socialist European countries years ago. For Slovenia, the good news only confirms the fact that it took a lot of personal effort, especially the recognition in the professional and political circles that they trust, to invite. You yourself, Mr President, have personally engaged with the OECD members, as well as with the Secretary-General of the organisation himself, who also visited Dr Andrej Bajuk in Paris this February and expressed to him the interest of the Slovenian government for the earliest possible membership in the OECD. In addition to some political elements requiring special care in relations with the most influential OECD members, Slovenia has two arguments that favour other candidates. These are integration into the European Monetary Union and the EU Presidency in 2008. Dear Mr. President! How do you assess the possibilities for a successful conclusion of negotiations that will surely be arduous? What would membership in the OECD mean for Slovenia and everyone living here? Thank you very much for your answers in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you for asking. By obtaining a green light for membership in the OECD, Slovenia has somehow rounded up its membership in important international organisations. This was the last very important international organisation to which Slovenia had not yet been a member. The importance of this organization is highlighted by the fact that only 30 countries, which comprise about one fifth of the world's population, are involved, but these countries create four fifths or almost a whole world gross domestic product. As a result of this fact, this organisation significantly creates economic and development standards and being a member of such an organization means having the opportunity to participate in the creation of these standards. The path to membership was or would be long. Slovenia submitted a request in March 1996, and all this time - until last year - the answers were negative. By becoming a member of the Eurogroup this year, Slovenia has also become the only member of the euro area, which is also not a member of the OECD. At the working meeting we had in Slovenia, in Bled, at the Slovenian celebration, at the entry of Slovenia into the euro area - There was also a large number of Heads of Government of other euro-area countries and also some non-euro-area countries in the OECD, representatives of the European Commission - well, at that meeting we asked new colleagues in this organisation for additional support of Slovenian candidacy, it was given an unreserved result and, of course, the rest of the efforts were listed by some of you, this green light. Being a member of the OECD, in addition to everything I mentioned at the outset, also means being involved in some real comparison, a real development comparison. The Member States that are members of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, i.e. they have probably the most accurate forecasts of economic trends forward and also the most realistic comparison of the different development indicators of the Member States. It will be very interesting after Slovenian membership or after this green light has actually experienced realisation in terms of full membership - the process has not yet been completed, but the main stage behind us will be a very interesting view of that first benchmark. We will see where Slovenia will belong, and when we see this scale, we will know which category we are currently competing in. Will this be the new category of the most developed countries? And this greater competition should or will only have to be an additional incentive to be even faster in development and faster in providing prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you. We turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members of the Ministers. At the 24th, 25th and 27th meetings of the National Assembly, Members: Mr Boštjan Zagorac, Mr Srečko Friends, Mr Samo Bevk, Mr Sašo Pece and Mr Aloyz Sok asked questions of their own to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk and the Minister of Economy of Mags. Andrei Vissiak. Since the ministers were not present, the Members requested an oral reply to the next meeting of the assembly, so I give the floor to the ministers to answer the questions. The Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, will first answer Mr Boštjan Zagorac's question about double taxation of the income of employees in Austria. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for this question. Mr Zagorac asks why Slovenian citizens are still double-taxed in Austria and why a bilateral agreement on the taxation of Slovenian workers in Austria has not yet been adopted, given the full membership of both countries in the European Union. The Income Act has consistently established the principle of taxation of residents of Slovenia on the world income and not residents of Slovenia on the source of income in Slovenia. Such a system, which is applied practically in all developed countries, is based on the assumption that natural persons resident in a particular country also benefit from the public goods provided by the State of residence, so it is appropriate to pay taxes in that country. In certain cases, when a natural person gains income in one country but is resident in another, there may be situations where the right to tax a certain income is owned by both countries. With a view to eliminating such double taxation of the same income, the Income Act incorporates a method to eliminate double taxation of this income. In a specific case where residents are employed in Austria, the Income Act allows double taxation of income and employment to normally be prevented by reducing the tax payable by the resident of Slovenia in Slovenia. If this income is taxed in Austria at a lower rate than in Slovenia, the resident of Slovenia that achieves this income must pay the difference to the rate used in the taxation of his income if taxed only in Slovenia. In this way, the tax on the income and employment of residents of Slovenia is generally the same, regardless of whether residents receive income in Slovenia or abroad, which ensures the same position of all natural persons who are residents of Slovenia. The same principle of eliminating the double taxation of the income of its residents is followed by Slovenia in concluding bilateral conventions on the avoidance of double taxation. The same principle is applied in the Convention with the Republic of Austria and these Conventions are several dozen. Slovenia currently has several conventions, as I said, in which the described method is used as a method to prevent double taxation. This method also applies in the conventions concluded with Germany, Hungary, Croatia, to mention only neighbouring countries. Only in the Convention with the Republic of Italy, which Slovenia is still using as the successor to the convention concluded between the SFRJ and the Republic of Italy, is the exemption method under which these revenues are taxed in a specific case only in Italy. Even in this case, Slovenia has already ratified a new convention, Slovenian-Italian, which has not yet been ratified by Italy. It follows that Slovenian citizens are not double-taxed because all mechanisms allowing the elimination of double taxation are adopted. In order to provide approximately the same benefits and exemptions to all residents of Slovenia, both those who receive incomes from foreign employment and those who receive them at home were also provided in the Income Act, in the latest version, with an arrangement whereby the resident can apply a reduction in the tax base for the cost of food between work and transport to work and work - given the actual presence at work if the employer does not reimburse him for these costs. In accordance with a government regulation fixing the amount of tax-recognised labour costs, the reimbursement of the cost of eating during work is set at EUR 5.54 per day and the recognised cost of transport of EUR 15 centimetres per kilometer between residence and place of work. From the point of view of the full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU, we would like to point out that EU membership in no way limits the rights of Member States to tax the income of natural persons in accordance with their domestic legislation. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration met with representatives of the civil initiative Apache at the end of December 2006, which advocates the position that Slovenian residents working in Austria should be taxed on their own. These agreements also continued this year. At its meeting on 12 April 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supported the request of the civil initiative Apache to amend the Convention between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation. Given that the Government estimates that it is necessary to maintain the income position of a resident in Slovenia who works in Austria, the Government has already acceded to the amendments to the current Convention on the avoidance of double taxation with the Republic of Austria. By proposing to the Republic of Austria that the incomes of employment received by residents of Slovenia on employment in Austria are exempt from taxes in Slovenia and thus are taxed only in Austria where they acquire these incomes. The Government will also propose that the amendment to the Convention be valid from 1.1.2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Mr President. Your Honors are here! Dear guests on the balcony! I have more reasons to be happy today. The first is certainly this, Mr Minister, to see you, four meetings I have been waiting for an answer and at one point in the SNS Group we have already feared that the government has gone somewhere into exile, again, but I see that it is not. The other thing that I am pleased to see is that the problem, on the initiative of the SNS Group and the civil initiative of Apache, has begun to be resolved. I am also pleased that, despite all of this, we have both found that by the time this convention was amended, we could have talked theoretically about two taxations, and the country was the one who did not know how to collect the taxes that these people had already paid in Austria. We could do that, too. Finally, we must not forget that these people are not alone or alone, but they have been forced to find their own work elsewhere. Most of them worked here, in Slovenian factories, especially in northeastern Slovenia, for free because they were promised some extra wages. Just remember the large factories that were in Slovenia and unfortunately went bankrupt because of their interests or higher goals and then people had to find work elsewhere and it is wrong to tax them further. And the third reason why I can be happy today is that, Minister, you yourself have taken the initiative to solve this problem and have not given, like the other representatives of the Government, to solve the problems of people, I will say to the government's Styrian guru, the Director of Drava Power Plants, the supervisor of Telekom to Mr Damjan Koljetnik, because this problem would probably not be solved today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I really thank the Member for the concern expressed about my health. I'm very fine, once again very healthy. However, the fact is that I could not be present at these meetings of the National Assembly, as you mentioned, because of the duties that I have to fulfil, especially now as part of the entry into the euro, because it is the euro group that the Eurogroup is meeting on Monday, and here was the sad thing that it has always been on such Mondays when I had to be absent. Otherwise, you received written answers and you asked me to say it orally. Let me add the following. A few days ago, last Friday, a fellow finance minister from the neighbouring Republic of Austria visited Slovenia. She discussed a number of matters with him for a long time, including this. In the end, before he said good-bye, we looked into this issue, and I told him that in the coming weeks, if not days, this proposal would actually be sent. As you know, on April 16th, the government accepted this starting point. We are still working very hard on this at the Ministry of Finance, but it will be sent for ratification to Austria and we do not expect any problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you. The Minister of Finance, Mr Bajuk, will now answer Mr Srečko Friend's question about the envisaged divestment of the state share of the company General Navigation, Portorož. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! Lucky Friend has asked a number of questions about this, and we have also sent him written answers, and he is also covered by this explanation that I have just given to his colleague Zagorec. At the Ministry of Finance on the question of the Member's question of general navigation, I think we must first find that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is 8.6.2006, which is said almost a year ago, transferred its 43.2% share in the general voyage to society, the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d. The Administration of Sod and Kad companies are independent in accordance with the Law on Economic Companies. They run companies autonomously and at their own expense. They are obliged by their capital investments to comply with their investment policy, applicable legislation, internal acts and the principle of a good host. However, administrations are solely responsible for their business decisions to the management board or supervisory board of companies. As regards the possible sale of shares in the General course, d.o.o., Portorož, are Sod d.d. and when they are obliged to comply with those principles, and I have no reason to believe that they are doing so. On 27 July 2006, the Government adopted a decision on the method of withdrawal of the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Capital Company from the ownership of companies. In our opinion, the withdrawal from General Navigation property, Portorož, from the Soda and Kad could be carried out in a way that retains a business share of 25% plus one share for an indefinite time, as this ensures the position of the so-called blocked minority and we have also taken action to do so. Such a model allows for the maintenance of control over statutory decisions, including the establishment of the company, the activities of the company, the decision to recapitalise or sell to the company or parts of the company, etc. In view of the planned withdrawal of the Soda and Kad from companies, we can add that Sod, d.d. proposed the abolition of the pre-emptive right and the existing partners voted in favour at the last General Navigation Assembly. We conclude that the Court and Kad, by abolishing the pre-emptive rights and the intended sale of their business shares, because of the greater competition of potential buyers, are counting on them to survive the larger purchase and to meet the additional conditions I have already mentioned: taking over the guarantee, maintaining the seat in the Republic of Slovenia, maintaining the scholarship, maritime school, etc. According to the latest available data on the ownership of the Maritime Company, ownership is divided into Istriainvest, d.d. and other private owners. Istrainvest is the owner of the major business share of the Pomeranian Company. The management of General Navigation, Portorož, is responsible to the supervisory board of the company and not to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the Act on Economic Companies for its business decisions. The Court and Kad have to ensure transparency, competitiveness, as much as possible and the fulfilment of additional conditions by implementing procedures for the sale of financial investments. On 16 February, the company received a public invitation to tender for the purchase of the business share of the General Navigation, Portorož. The public call was published in newspapers, namely the locals, in Slovenian and English. Binding tenders were to be submitted by potential buyers by 3 April 2007. Three offers reached that deadline. The sales commission, composed of representatives of Sod and Kad, held a discussion with all the tenderers and subsequently forwarded them an invitation to improve the price. Complementing the price improvement offer is an obligation for tenderers to submit to the Commission by 28 May, that is today. We are confident that after examining the tenders received, the Commission will choose such a tenderer as to offer the highest purchase price and will provide the company with an appropriate development that will meet the other conditions of the signed notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you. Mr. Friend, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, welcome to our midst! You mentioned your duties earlier. The first duty is this National Assembly, which appointed you and once a month it is appropriate to come between us and answer questions. Only later can it be Europe's turn. It would have been appropriate. You answered everything but what I asked you not. I asked you about why you allowed; the chronology of events is just like this, in 1995, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a special law to remedy the General Sailing, 75 million we gave out of the budget, in dollars I say, you know, and later we made it possible, even to enter the mortgages we forgot, even though the bank at the time requested it, the mortgages were not entered, and the ships were transferred to a foreign register. On the foreign register, extra credit was taken. It's a kind of crime. And you're getting out of this now. The direct question for you is: Has Nova Slovenije received any financial resources? In fact, it is said on the coast that you are paid dearly for this, even your visits are very common in this institution, i.e. in the General Navigation, which is owned by the State. That's the first question. The second question is: Why did you allow Peter Doehle to buy a company that was created solely to protect the interests of workers? It is known that workers had not been paid for a long time and that in fact the authorities of that time allowed the company to be established. This company was led by a unionist, Mr Zevnik, who is today extremely rich, also buys power plants in Bosnia, bought one power plant, you know, and is still the director of the General Navigation. I want to know why Mr. Doyle can still run this company, the Maritime Society, and, of course, this way too. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] essentially generates revenue, since all ships have leased it, of which it collects a percentage commission plus extra revenue. [[...]] And you allow it. The company is owned by the State, through the Soda and the Kada supervisory authorities [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I think there is a major confusion here, in this presentation by the Member of Parliament, because in fact the Ministry of Finance does not appoint and decide on these matters. As I told you, the owners have their responsibilities and we will also play on this responsibility. In any case, I would also like to say that, I would say, personal assessments, if I go with my wife to the Slovenian coast, I assure you, Mr Member, that this is by means of the resources I have accumulated in my life with hard work, not by any donations from the private sector - either domestic or foreign. So I strongly reject this and I ask you to limit yourself to these things. In any case, if you have specific information on illegal activity, I think you have the full possibility, as a Member and a member of this National Assembly, that you should also present it publicly and, of course, request a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. Look, your question was identical to mine. I'll put it in the envelope and send it to you. At that time you addressed this question to Mr Drnovšk, now you are avoiding the answer - I don't know why. The answer will soon be known when this package is sold. If Mr Doyle, who has many lawsuits, will buy it, then you know that you sold to a very corrupt company part of the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia, the only Slovenian shipowner. The other thing I want to say is that the Government - you know well, I do not mean personally to you that you have appointed anyone, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appoints supervisory saints, both the leadership of the Court and Kad. By voting you have this opportunity to do so, and you have done so. The fact that it is said that many times you were the only one from the government to visit the General Sailing - is also true and what you agreed to there, you know. It'll probably come out after the General Sailing is sold. What do we want in the Slovenian National Party? To enable the Slovenian economy to purchase the majority stake as a priority! That's all! Because there is a lot and a lot of will in the Slovenian economy to make this happen. In line with the damage done; see - taxpayers, as I told you before, have spent 75 million dollars on this company, directly from their pockets and have been rehabilitated. The former director, Mr Krejačič - an enormously rich person, led the company when the company went the worst, has two yachts and three houses, no one asks about it. As far as my proceedings are concerned, the prosecution has been informed, the Court of Auditors has been informed, the Kosovo Commission has been informed, the Government has been informed and, of course, many others have been informed. And also in this National Assembly, in accordance with this business arrangement, I demand that a broader debate be held. And if you are so democratic, Mr Minister, ask your Members to vote in favour of the general debate on the General Navigation, the only Slovenian shipowner we still have, we will sell it into the hands of foreigners who exploit it and make extra profits. And you know very well who is now appointed director there, and in this building, as you said in the administrative building, is also the seat of one of the government clients. You know that. As this money flows, from this account into private and client pockets, it will be found later. I know that Mr Doyle is so powerful that he can offer three times as much as the Slovenian economy, but if Slovenia cannot protect the only Slovenian shipowner in such a way as to offer a priority ransom for this share that is sold through the Soda and Kad, then it is sad. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request the President-in-Office to hold a broader debate on the General Navigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u62	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Andrej Bajuk will now answer Mr Sam Bevik's question about the preparation of an agreement to avoid double taxation with Australia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have already answered this question in writing to Mr Bevk, and the Member has asked me to do so orally, and I am happy to do so here too. The fact is that there are, as I have already explained, different mechanisms, including such an agreement, for our relationship with Austria, a bilateral agreement between the countries to eliminate this double taxation. In two cases, the Republic of Slovenia has already offered and asked Australia to have such a negative response so far that they are not interested. On the basis of your letter, however, we have again asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to check again if this could happen, because of course the bilateral agreement requires two parties. Slovenia was prepared, even in the past, to do so, but there was no interest from the Australian authorities. We have reopened this matter to the extent that there will be any new developments in this area, and I will also be happy to announce it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Sorry, I didn't get your answer in writing, but maybe the post office got lost somewhere in some State Hall room. I'll check it out, but thanks for the answer. The fact is, in Australia, there are some more than 20,000 of our cousins, according to Australian data. According to our Slovenian data, this is also said in the encyclopedia, 30,000 Slovenian compatriots of different ages, from those who came after the war to more recent migratory flows. There are also many pensioners who suffer from double taxation both in Australia and in the Republic of Slovenia. And we took this initiative when the Commission for Relations with Slovenians was in place and around the world of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of February on a visit to Australia. I think our country should be more persistent in seeking contacts with the Australian authorities. I hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will now succeed with this initiative. But it is not only a question of double taxation in the pensions of our Slovenian expatriates, but also of the opportunities that our economy would have with such a bilateral agreement. The economic exchange between the Republic of Slovenia and Australia is virtually on the ground [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] the level, not much of this cooperation, and this is exactly the kind of agreement that could encourage cooperation in the economic field. [[...]] That's why I would appeal to you, Mr. Secretary. [[...]] [[microphone dig]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I really don't have anything to add. When we answered this question in writing on 3 March and 2 March, I apologize, we have told you that we will renegotiate negotiations for the conclusion of this Convention. Since then, we have already done so, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has again addressed a diplomatic note to Australia, and I hope that this path will be a little more successful than in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you. Now he's going to be Minister of Economy, mag. Andrej Vizjak answered Mr Saš Pečet's question regarding Drava Power Plants. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Dear Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! Ambassador Sašo Peče asked why there has been an unjustified increase in electricity and what is the operation and revision of the Drava power plants Maribor and who is Damian Kolletnik? We are addressing this issue with the following information. Electricity increased by less than 5% in 2007. This is due to the fact that the retail selling price of electricity consists of a network - approximately 60% and electricity, which is purchased according to market rules. The network covers the costs of the network and the operation of the energy system. It also has additives such as a supplement to promote renewable resources. This year’s network even fell slightly. It is true, however, that energy on the market is being strongly auctioned. Let me just point out that in 2002 the price on the market was about 25 euros per megawatt hour, while it was the end of last year, this is during the period when distribution companies made contracts with suppliers, about 65 euros per megawatt hour. It's been said several times this energy has been irritated. The reason for this irritation is the growth of energy in general, and these are global trends. So, the household energy price in Slovenia has not been followed by these increases in recent years, for which we have worked within the Ministry of the Economy, and also within companies we have tried to ensure that these energy price hikes on the markets do not fully translate into household energy prices, but rather by controlling costs, by reducing some irrational moves, how to manage and how to only partially reflect this in the price of the final product, this is in the price of the household. And as a result, there has been a substantial, significantly smaller impression than it would have followed from just some economic perspective. Because we are aware that households are relatively vulnerable, vulnerable energy consumers and consequently solutions are very, very sensitive. I must also say that, despite the fact that energy is a European or global product and that energy supply is also a service supply, we have about 25% lower household prices in Slovenia than in other Member States of the European Community, especially compared to border countries. Let me also say that Drava power plants in the holding group of Slovenian power plants have very ambitious development plans. They plan the Kozjak hydroelectric power plant, which will upgrade the production, production capacity of Drava power plants very importantly. The Zlatoličje hydroelectric power plant is being renovated, an important project. They're doing a study on the possibility of using the Mura energy. They participate as a 30% co-investor in the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava. In short, an ambitious development project coordinated within the framework of the Holding Slovenski Power Plants Group [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and, as a result, a very important mission to the hydro part of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant. [[...]] The director of the Dravsky power plant Damian Kolletnik, a 34-year-old university economist, was a member of the Management Board of Post Slovenia prior to his appointment as Director of Dravske Power Plants. As a member of the mail management, which employs approximately 6,500 people, several major investment projects have also been carried out, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , he was also in charge of investment and marketing at the post office, and before that he was the head of several projects and companies. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Pache, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u71	Mr. Secretary, just help me. Just hypothetical. If the tax inspection had found that within this institution, which has such strong projects as you mentioned, there were irregularities at the highest level and if this person, whom you claim to have made some wonderful investments in the context of Post Slovenia - you of course forgot to say that there was only three months in the Post of Slovenia, and before that in one entirely different industry called car service, which does not employ 15 people, then 600 - how would the government react if legitimate indications were to show that there were calls and other transactions within the framework of Drava power plants? Then what would be the reaction? I trust you, absolutely, and from this very title I wonder what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u73	The government as a assembly appoints supervisors and, of course, others also have other rights as the holding assembly of the Slovenian power plant, which is a company whose subsidiaries are Drava power plants. And it is certainly a key task for the Board of Supervisors of the Drava Power Plants to act in accordance with their powers insofar as there are indications, irregularities or even illegality. This is not just a welcome task for the Supervisory Board, this is a necessity, because the members of the Supervisory Board are also responsible for carrying out their mission, in accordance with the Company Act. It is therefore the duty of the Supervisory Board to investigate or define in detail potential irregularities and, of course, I do not want to be a minister, nor does the Government, to intervene in any way in the powers of the Supervisory Board, because, in accordance with the Economic Companies Act, it has clear tasks and is independent in this work. Certain questions on this subject may be raised when certain reports on the Holding’s supervisory board are addressed as parent or as parent companies in this case. And these are the right places to discuss concrete findings, or indications, as you say. Therefore, I believe that your indicated indications will also deal responsibly with and accept certain conclusions. Of course, we must not mix here the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Assembly, the tasks and responsibilities of the Ministry of Economy and the tasks and responsibilities of the individual organs of society. Here only matters need to be dealt with in accordance with the powers laid down by the Company Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr Vizjak will now answer Mr Happy Friend's question regarding the use of frequencies in the area along the Italian border. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Member Srečko Friend has pointed out a matter that is in fact exposed as problematic and has already been the subject of many discussions at the level of the authorities responsible, in particular by Slovenia. We therefore agree that the matter is actually problematic, both for the border area and for the wider area of Primorska, so we are working hard to resolve this problem. In accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications, the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications shall be administered on the basis of a mandate. In all cases, Slovenian broadcasting stations operate according to international law and Italian stations do not have the necessary consent of the Republic of Slovenia for their operation. The action of the Slovenian administration or agency was appropriate, but the Italian side was fully non-response, both to the Agency's calls and to the calls of the Radio Regulatory Committee within the framework of the International Telecommunications Union. At the meeting of the Radio Regulatory Committee, in February this year, it was also decided that the situation between the Republic of Italy and Slovenia was so serious that the matter would be included in the report, which will be the entry document for the next global radio conference to be held in Geneva this fall, between 22 October and 16 November. In any event, the Ministry of the Economy will continue to work in every way to address the situation in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The radio and television frequencies strategy at the border with Italy is also being developed in cooperation. The next coordination meeting will be in a short time, and I hope it will be a step in this direction. So, according to Slovenian and, last but not least, European legislation, we want to solve this problem. I thank the Member for warning me, once again, on this matter. Joint efforts can, in a way, lead the Italian side to respect international commitments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u76	Thank you. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Friend? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I must say at the beginning of this supplementary reply that we appreciate your work in our parliamentary group and can say without overdoing that you are a good minister, even though there is a hole to be covered in this area. Why? Because, according to our opinion, the APEK is not doing well and the fact is that the Italians are absorbing the frequencies assigned to our television stations by the decision, but we are not responding and that in Venice we have been receiving all the consent of the Republic of Slovenia for years now, but Italy does not issue an operating permit. Thus there is no Slovenian word and neither is a picture. If we do this in our field of viewership, we can find that, in fact, the Italians can, through national television, TV Koper’s regional programme, broadcast 70% of their programme, even at the expense of all of us who have electrical connections; we know that television is paid through this connection; and of course without subtitles. I've warned you many times that this should happen. Speaking of which, your promise is also open to the segment of reimbursement of the costs of stolen television impulses. That's what we said about paying people back because they paid their bills unjustifiably. In short, there is some disagreement in the work, in the professional approaches, and I would ask you, if you can, in fact, say again what you intend to do in this area, because I know that the economy is a priority for you. However, this also falls under your department, unfortunately after the abolition of the competent ministry. As has already been said, your work in our parliamentary group is assessed positively and as very well. Please, if you can answer me when these disagreements will be over. All of them I've listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u79	Of course, the Slovenian side also asked itself, through the internationalisation of this problem, to settle these issues as soon as possible. With regard to the question, response also from the Italian side - with unilateral measures, unfortunately, without agreement and finding solutions and responding to our calls is not possible to expect a solution. That is why we have internationalised this in the framework of these bodies, which I have listed in the course of addressing these issues. I am confident that we will be able to resolve these issues as soon as possible through this international dimension. However, let me point out that, this year, the Agency has also issued most additional broadcast frequencies to the affected stations, and that this also significantly improves the situation at the border with Italy. This is very important. The 21st meeting of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was held last year when the Agency submitted a report on its work for 2005. Therefore, the problems of radio spectrum at the border with the Republic of Italy and the report highlighted the fact that the problems of all Slovenian radio broadcasting stations are successfully addressed by assigning additional frequencies to the official duty. In fact, it is also a kind of reaction, which is, of course, within the competence of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, in the face of problems such as borderline. So, the solution goes two ways, on the international floor of bilateral problems and at the same time with additional coverage from our side. In fact, this is also a tactic to address this issue of the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Friend, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that this time we have been given is too short to clear up any open questions. And look, it's simply, in their own words, that the Italian signals are essentially forced into our audience and they're distracting commercial televisions that are private, which depend only on what they're publishing in their program as an advertisement. It's kind of a forced fact, of course. There is a very, very pervasive Mr Berlusconi and the fact is that this National Assembly should request a protest note from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed to the appropriate address in Rome. That is, to put it mildly, urgent. In addition, reimbursement measures must be followed. I thank you, Mr Minister, that you have said, I myself wanted to announce that new frequencies have been allocated in this area and it is right, there are not enough of them, even more often they should be "planted" if I can thus say that I would actually get some filter of impenetrableness into our broadcast network. And precisely because our relevant service is very inactive in this area, I suggest, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this be discussed and that we resolve all open issues, including those which are essentially linked to the national RTV programme of Slovenia, this is the broadcasting of a minority programme in Italian, which is not even subtitled by Slovenian subtitles. We do not want to violate this minority right, but if it is broadcast in Italian and on behalf of all of us who are paying the subscription, then let the subtitles in Slovenian and vice versa be added. That's what we want. There are also open questions on the telephone, so I propose that a frank debate be held in this National Assembly and that changes be made in this area. For we see that the warning is essentially nothing. I have repeatedly highlighted this issue in this house, and I have been frank about it. I also turned to the Minister responsible for this, i.e. the Minister of Culture, and nothing has changed. I have addressed open questions to the RTV Slovenia Editorial Council, nothing has changed. This is the last time we are bombing the Minister of Economy, to whom this area has been planted, if we can say so, because this competent ministry has been abolished. I believe that nothing will change again, because there will be no change until we exchange certain people in certain places, who only walk on wages. And this is a national interest that we need to protect. The Slovenian word, seen and heard in the Slovenian field and within the Slovenian borders, must be protected. That's normal. Isn't it? And our minority, in an appropriate manner, according to the reciprocal functioning of Slovenia within the Italian minority, must also be enforced. The Slovenian minority does not have these rights. As I said before, the signal in Venice isn't visible, even though we gave millions and millions to this converter we installed there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of the economy, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Minister of the Economy, Mr Vizjak, will now answer Mr Sam Bevk's question about the closing works in, excuse me, the answer to Mr Alojs Sok's question about the extraction of bioethanol in the abandoned sugar factory Ormož. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you very much. With regard to the restructuring process of the Ormož Sugar Factory, the share company Ormož, the Ministry of Economy is very interested in putting any new form of production, entrepreneurial activities, in particular economic entrepreneurship, which is long-term and economically viable, at the location, in the area of the infrastructure provided. Therefore, the idea of producing bioethanol at the site also came across the Ministry of the Economy with positive responses, including preparedness for aid and so on. However, I must only point out that the Government or the Republic of Slovenia does not have an ownership stake and, of course, the ownership share of the resulting management rights. As a result, there is a move, a proposal, an initiative on the part of those who bear this economic initiative, including in this particular location. We therefore expect that, on the basis of the company's entrepreneurial strategy, they will also be presented to our Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of the Environment and Space, which also includes this issue and, lastly, to the Ministry of Agriculture, which has played an important role in the role and functions of this factory so far, and we can also expect concrete responses, a proposal and not least state aid. I would like to stress that the Ministry of the Economy has a number of instruments available to support specific entrepreneurial projects, but it is very difficult to say about this support until this concrete project is also presented, that is to say, I can only answer with a concrete answer to a specific question. And I am striving to find, together with Mr Soko, who is very active in the search for solutions, a real entrepreneurial initiative for this factory will be found as soon as possible, which will also provide an alternative and also jobs for these people who have lost their jobs in the factory after they have left sugar production. I believe that this is the responsibility of everyone, including the owners of the factory, and we can call this a joint project for all to come up with an effective solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you. Now the Minister of Economy will answer Mr Sam Bevik's question about the closing works in Idri's mercury mine. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u85	The Member of Parliament was very specific. He asked when the Government would adopt the 2007 operational programme and when it would adopt the 2008-2012 mine closure programme. On 26 April 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also adopted, at its 119th meeting, a programme to maintain the watertight part of the cave and to monitor the completion of the closures in the mine for the period 2008-2012. The government also adopted an operational programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the mercury mine in closure for 2007. This shall be made by both documents at the same meeting on 26.4.2007. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Thank you, too, for your reply to Minister Mag. Visionary. I have put my question here in this National Assembly on Monday, 23 April. So three days after that, the government adopted these two documents. From this point of view, I must commend you and also find that parliamentary issues also contribute to a better part of the government, but one other issue is linked here. Indeed, we have already called on the Ministry and the Government for these two documents at the debate on the State Economic Committee in January. That was five months ago. The government then took three months to adopt these two documents. However, in practice it is mainly an operational programme for 2007, not so much for the monitoring programme for the period 2008 to 2012. The fact is that the mercury mine - in closing in Idria until the end of last week did not receive money from the state. Therefore, in order to finance the closures in those five months, it had to be entrusted to commercial banks. However, we know that credit is not cheap, that this also automatically inspires closing works and that work has also been co-financed from some of its own revenues. At the same time, we know that the 2007 state budget was already adopted at the end of last year. It is said that the Government is taking its decisions very slowly, [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] I'd say he's slowly implementing the state budget. [[...]] As a result, the closing works in the Idrija mine will be more expensive. That's why I'm calling on the early ones. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I can't say that the closing works are going to be any more expensive. But I'm sure it's much more effective. Both programmes or both documents have been very, very substantively and financially coordinated with both professional and financial institutions. I am convinced that the result of this can also be a more effective solution, which is in the interest of all taxpayers. Indeed, this situation that I mentioned was necessary to cover certain costs of renting a short-term liquidity loan, but I am sure that at the prices of these loans - this is said - even with the already adopted programme, this will certainly not have any financial impact on the situation. For it is also true that the adoption of the programme is only the basis for the conclusion of the contract and only the conclusion of the contract is the basis for the payment, which has also led to some, say, reasons for the borrowing of such a loan. I am convinced that the matter is now settled for a considerable period to come. I am pleased that you will also draw attention to these problems through the parliamentary benches, but you are already on vacation, as you yourself have said, and this is a sufficient impetus for the government's other tasks to come to such documents as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you. We have thus concluded the old debts that some ministers have owed to our Members and Members of Parliament. We are moving on to the first round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament, the first round today. He'll be a magician first. Majda Potter asked the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, distinguished ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! One of the basic objectives of the Lisbon Strategy is to increase employment and therefore the low unemployment rate data, along with economic growth indicators, is probably enough for a government assessment that we are doing as well as we have never done before. Of course, for those who see something other than economic success, such as social justice, data is not so uniform. As employment now accounts for 80% of new jobs for a certain period of time, the sense of security in employees and job seekers is significantly reduced. Therefore, satisfaction with the situation is not the same for everyone. It is also clear, however, that the measures to ensure a faster return to the labour market are not as much to us as in the EU countries to which we want to compare ourselves and with which we want to compete. That is why, in the framework of the legislative process, we have proposed supplements that encourage employers to employ the most vulnerable groups, particularly the first job seekers and the long-term unemployed. In addition, in the budget debate, the Social Democrats drew attention to the reduced volume of resources allocated to active employment policy measures. Our budget additions were not adopted. We have now followed the proposal of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to amend the 2007-2013 Development Programme Plan, which foresees a reduction in resources, which should not have an impact on the social situation of individuals. This is a reduction in labour market items and working conditions, an increase in employability of a total of 17 million 117.000 and a few more euros. Only two items increase funds. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you: Why has the Ministry proposed such a large reduction in resources for active employment policy programmes? What effect does the Ministry expect on the basis of this measure? What programmes will the funds be diverted to? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! With regard to the response put forward, I must say that this year, for the first time, the active employment policy programme was adopted for a seven-year period. Under the Active Employment Policy Programme, the APZ itself, as we call an active employment policy, was adopted for 2007 and 2008. In 2006, a total of SIT 923 million and SIT 907 000 were planned in 2006. And in 2007 17 billion 731 million 253 thousand SIT and 73 million euros 921 thousand 211. There is indeed a difference between 2006 and 2007. In 2006, not all the funds in the budget were used, but only 81% of the plan implemented. That's one reason. The second reason is that, in the financial year 2007, there is no more planned funding for the Phare programmes and that resources for Equal are also being reduced. For these two programmes were planned during the 2004/2006 financial period and this period is now running out. This year, new calls for new programmes are foreseen in autumn 2007, where we expect even greater funds than those foreseen for 2004 and 2006 for these two Equal and Phare programmes. Then, in view of this 7-year programme - as I mentioned earlier - which is now being implemented, the 7-year programme was introduced mainly for the sake of stability, transparency and also the parallelity of our funding with the financing of European funds. Emphasis during this 7-year period is given mainly on two programmes. As you have already pointed out, the training and education programme. Here, in 2007 and 2008 and then until 2013, we want to give special attention in particular to the education of deficient professions. For we know that we lack builders, metalsmiths, ceramics, and drivers. It is precisely these days that we are facing an excess of the quota of work permits, and in most cases these work permits are in the field of construction. I would therefore also like to stress, on this occasion, that this training and education programme implemented for this financial perspective will be carried out through the Employment Service to include our unemployed, especially young people, in education for - this is a training programme in the workplace or for a new job - especially the construction and deficit jobs that we lack. Of course, we will also have to raise the quota for work permits in parallel. However, in the first place, we want these funds to focus on the employment of the unemployed, as they have so far been financed or educated by programmes that have not led to employment. Our objective in this new financial perspective, especially for 2007 and 2008, is to ensure that training programmes, in particular the education programme, which aims at 33.6% for 2007 in order to ensure that unemployed people are transferred to employment. The second programme is to increase social inclusion. These are, however, the most risky target groups, especially the long-term unemployed over 50 years of age, women, Roma, and recipients of monetary compensation or financial assistance. As a novelty for this financial perspective, the current internal employment policy programme is also a regional approach, where it is possible for the Minister to issue a decision - and I have already issued this - for those regions where they have the greatest unemployment to have the advantage of drawing these [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Well, in the material that was the basis for this question, there is actually something in writing that is very exciting, at least for me. It says that these changes will have no impact on the social situation of individuals. Indeed, one would expect certain measures to be implemented in order to have a positive impact on the social situation of individuals. It also states that there will be at least 490 jobs for older persons for at least one year. Older people count after 55. And you've been telling me about other categories of job seekers. I would like to point out that, for example, the waiting time for high school graduates, these are those who have now graduated on international relations for 35 months, that, for example, it is possible to read at the same time that there is now a shortage of unskilled workers in a whole range of professions and that at the same time it has not been possible to ignore the record of how the lists of unemployed persons have been cleaned not for your ministry, but a little earlier. All of these are signs of concern in the direction of active employment policy measures. If we receive more funding from the European Structural Funds for an active employment policy, we do not show them to be reduced at home because we also need to ensure our own participation. This is where my question goes. That's why I'm asking you: To which programmes will the funds specifically be diverted, and is it no harm to reduce? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you. Good thing I still have so much time to explain. It was just this spring, which was in March, that we gave a new programme or invitation to tender just for older workers and thus provided subsidies from 200 to 250 jobs. However, the second public tender was for the non-profit employers' employment project. Both were signed up for months in March. And this is also about 337 subsidised jobs. As I have already mentioned, calls for European funds will be announced in autumn, and we expect additional programmes where we can work. The four are main programmes: advice and assistance in the search for employment, training and education, promotion of employment and self-employment and programmes to increase social inclusion, which I mentioned earlier. The social inclusion of this target group and training and education is the greatest. We lack not only unemployed people with primary education. We also lack highly educated personnel, especially machine engineers, then machine engineers, then electrical engineers and construction engineers. And it is with these new measures at the employment office that we want to adapt to the needs of employers, because we have recently seen that employers' needs are increasing and that demand for deficit jobs is increasing. That is why, this year, the Ministry of Higher Education has launched an action after secondary schools to inform young people of which professions are deficient, to make it easier for them to decide whether to study or to inform them that they can also get a job after the study. This is precisely why these new programmes are aimed at training the deficit professions and encouraging them for the deficit professions this year. So there will be no less resources, much more than in last year's year, where not used - I say - only 81% have been realized. And we can't afford this this year. Above all, it is our result, perhaps not only of resources, but that those who are educated through this programme of active employment policies are given employment. And this is our goal in 2007 and so on in 2008, because we can also justify both domestic resources and foreign funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you. Now he's gonna be a magician. Borut Saiovic asked the Minister of Environment and Space the question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished Minister and the Council of Ministers! Mr Minister Podobnik, my question of mission concerns climate change. Of course, if we were to talk about this question maybe a year, two, three years ago, we would say, that's something that's happening around the world, and it doesn't have much to do with us. However, climate change is not something that will happen. That's something that's already happening to us and what's already happened. If we analyze what last winter was like in the past, then we see that the so - called green winters are not the case. Even if we look at the amount of precipitation from last fall to now, we can see that we may be dealing with serious questions from the congregation that lies in the heart of Karavank. And where essentially drinking water is enough in almost every valley, we notice that our drinking water supply has decreased by 30 percent on some coverages, sometimes even by more than 30 percent. Next important question. Why this is happening, they're greenhouse gases. Slovenia has committed itself to signing the Kyoto Agreement. What and what are our tasks? What are we gonna do? However, I think that in Slovenia, despite the commitments of greenhouse gas emissions, they are still above average. For example, we can also take emissions from transport. Slovenia unfortunately belongs to a group of countries that have the most increased emissions from transport since 1990. Under the Kyoto Agreement, we committed ourselves to an 8% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2012 compared to 1996. However, emissions increased again after the decrease in 2003. In 2004 - 1.6%, in 2005 by 2%, etc. And it seems to me that we may be far from the goal set today. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Space and Environment and the Government are also working in certain ways, they warn. For example, this year was a resounding action for April 22nd, Earth Day, with the slogan "Time for Action". I agree, it's time for action, all of you. It is not a political issue, but a question that is significantly affecting the scope of Slovenian and wider global policy. It is probably a question of the survival of succeeding generations and generations, how the Slovenians themselves, the government, the ministry, can take concrete measures to better raise awareness of people and reduce the impact of these warm-up influences in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, Mr Saiovic, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you for this question, which is linked to one of the very serious global climate issues. It's a critical cross-cutting issue. The Minister for Environment and Space cannot do this alone. Always in cooperation with colleagues or with energy, transport, finance, agriculture, and other sources. Allow me to go a little bit on the back of your question this time and first touch myself - so that I do not run out of time - how can the lifestyle change, which also has a global impact on these trends. I will give some concrete solutions from a Slovenian point of view. I would like to refer to the Eco School programme as a way of life that takes place in 310 schools in Slovenia. Schools, education and education are the place where, in fact, life-style changes first and most specifically, and it is important that climate change also comes into some of the curriculums of individual subjects. They can then become an integral part of any educational institution. Let me finish here, because here's where Dr. Beast's specific competence begins. Another area is the development of a specific communication strategy on climate change. We have done very well in the last two years with the British Embassy, as well as with their ministry of DEFRA. Recently there were Members of the Slovenian Globe in London who also agreed on some further contacts. And I, as Minister, am very supportive. One of the special forms affecting lifestyle change is also the so-called green tax reform. This is the EU's focus and the key element of the new green tax reform is that environmental benefits will be uniform across the EU. This will increase their fiscal impact. This means that environmental benefits will encourage behavioural patterns of individuals, legal persons to reduce the environmental burden, while at the same time providing funding for those environmental measures that may not yet have a full economic basis. Measures to raise public awareness are also very important. We would like to seriously study in Slovenia that perhaps the first country to follow the courageous decision of Great Bitania would be the first. This has decided to adopt a special law in this area. In fact, the environmental objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 in the United Kingdom and by 2050 is proposed to be adopted by law and then the Government has an obligation to report to the National Assembly on the effects of measures to achieve this objective. We will examine whether it is also in Slovenia now the time to go this way. I will list some other measures that are related to adaptation to already present and imminent climate change. One of these is the development of support studies to develop a comprehensive climate change adaptation strategy. The EU is preparing a Green Paper on this subject. We will be active in the field of water management, in the retention of high water, in the enrichment of low flows, in the provision of more water for irrigation in agriculture. Agriculture is also a sector where, in addition to irrigation, it will be necessary to find new adaptations to crop selection and introduce new ones into a drought-resistant culture. There is also a challenge to tourism, winter and sports tourism, or energy, or to the cooling of thermal power plants. From concrete measures related to the operational programme for greenhouse gas emission reduction - last December, the Government adopted a second revised amendment. I think that's a good piece of work. I hope you've looked at him, too. I mention some: in the energy sector, technological modernisation of thermal power plants in improving efficiency. One of the most important is support for cogeneration and remote heating and support for energy production. In the field of industry, I mention increasing energy efficiency and increasing the use of renewable resources, in particular wood biomass, the operational programme will be reviewed by the Government in a short time. In the area of buildings, I would like to mention that we are just ahead of adopting a new regulation on the efficient use of energy in buildings, which will introduce a new methodology in this area based on the pragmatic application of existing standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Minister, for the comprehensive and specific answers. On this issue, if we do more, it will never be done enough. I want to know: How does the Government intend to approach the urgent changes in the lifestyle of people and the value system of citizens and citizens who, in my opinion, constitute a necessary condition for the success of all these greenhouse gas reduction measures? For as long as - let's say - in certain parts of the national Slovenian sport, we make noises over weekends with motors and quadcycles of an undisciplined nature, that through mountain crossings such as - for example - we are organizing competitions of certain Ferrari vehicles, we will have to ask about this without a doubt. There's also a way to heat it up. We are Slovenians at the global summit on energy consumption for public education, this is the second third country in Europe. Then also - let's say - let's say that we can get to new additional resources faster, more efficiently, without less authorization, without formalism. I think that this is one of the primary interests of citizens, citizens and an urgent need. And if someone has a water source, which we know is not privately owned, but owned by the State, and if the need for coverage proves to be so, then we must carry out all these procedures to the extent that it is possible to do so within a few months. Then it's an interesting question for us to decide for once - the question for the Minister of Economic Affairs: At altitudes between - say - 1,100 and 1,500 meters, will we snow there, build skis, or maybe spas? And another interesting question: What do you think the impact of livestock farming on greenhouse impact emissions from studies that they present today in the world is real or excessive? I don't think that's the case. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u104	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u105	Your Honor, I agree with you on the latter. You are familiar with some studies and assessments, such as the impact of livestock farming in Australia or Argentina. Otherwise, it is the topic of our colleagues from agriculture, but you are certainly also a veterinary expert, and I share your opinion that this is not one of the key sources of CO2. Allow me to further answer some of the questions that you have asked me for an additional question. I'm just going to take it from the operational greenhouse gas emission reduction programme by 2012. I reiterate that this is a good document, it is very concrete and represents a very good guide not only to our department, but also to others. You have mentioned the issue of energy certification of buildings or the related regular inspections of climate systems and so on. As we say, in the new Regulation on the efficient use of energy in buildings, we will take into account the new methodology for assessing the overall energy efficiency of buildings. We will also take into account the necessary energy for heating, hot water preparation, ventilation, air conditioning and lighting. We will also establish stricter minimum energy efficiency requirements. Here comes the main conclusion - which will come from our assessment, the assessment of experts, the savings in final energy for the operation of the building by about 30%. On the Rules of Procedure from not so long ago 2002. I think that's one of the most important directions. We'll do it soon. I've already said something about a life-form change. In this operational programme, we have collaborated with colleagues from school - a special chapter of education which discusses school curriculum reform, which, according to its starting points in the national curriculum at all levels of education, also introduces different ways of environmental education or studies. We're very supportive of that. Environmental education is included in the primary school programme as an interdisciplinary area under general education. In high schools, environmental education in the curriculum is included in particular in natural subjects: geography, sociology and so on. I would also like to mention the establishment of a consortium of biotech schools. 11 secondary agricultural schools in Slovenia were associated with the Faculty of Biotech in Maribor, which prepares curricula with a strong environmental component. This is an important news. It is the training of future experts who will work on farms, forestry, gardening, planting, wine growing. The "ECO School as a way of life" project, which I have already mentioned, is part of the European ECO School project, which includes 21 countries. This project introduces environmental education in schools and primary and secondary schools in a planned and integrated manner. In Slovenia more than 200 educational institutions are included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u107	Not because the Minister's response would not be satisfactory, on the contrary. The Minister has opened up a number of new, broad areas and, just to give more attention to this subject, more care is taken to highlight, point out to the public, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, if a broader debate is also held at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you very much. On the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mag. Boruta Saiovica, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on his question, will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The Minister of Transport will be asked a question by Mrs Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! My question addressed to you, Mr Bozič, will be short and heard several times, especially in previous mandates, which of course means that this is an important problem. I'm talking about building a fast road called Razdrto-Vipava or more specifically the section of the Ribnica. For years and years, people in the Vipavska Valley have rightly wondered when they will be able to better connect with Ljubljana, Postojna, with other places, given that they are also driving there to work. We all know that we are driving several times on these roads, and we can find that today we can only get to Ljubljana from that end through the Ribnica. There, of course, traffic is very overloaded by trucks, tractors and other means of transport. Even under the previous authority, much was promised about the construction of this fast road. We've talked about this road before with our fellow Viceroy. He told me that, in the 1996-2000 mandate, Mr Ivo Hvalica had already asked the then Minister of Transport about this road and said something like this: Mr. Minister, what exactly do you want me to do to make this road finally built? You want me to get on my knees? For ribs I also go to my knees, I am also ready to go to my knees, said Mr Ivo Hvalica. And now, in 2007 there is still no road. And I, of course, rightly ask myself, Mr. Minister, do you expect me to go to my knees, that this road will finally be built? I will not expect this answer from you, because I will tell you by myself that I am not going to my knees, because I believe that this Government is responsible for this question and will finally build this road. Of course, I have a clear interest in the question or answer to my question: How is the highway being built itself? What exactly is this timetable, and when will this road finally be built? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u110	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. Madam Ambassador, you won't have to get down on your knees. This is sung by Sasha Lendero, but I'm still going to make the latest findings, the latest data I have regarding the construction of a fast road into the Vipav Valley. It is true that the Resolution on the National Program for the Construction of Motorways provides for the construction of the Vipava Fast Road arm of Razdrto-Vipava, Selo-Shempeter. It's a four-lane fast road with recesses instead of lanes. Part of the fast road across the Rebrunice is 10.7 km long, which is in construction, is expected to be dedicated to traffic in the first half of next year. This is also said in the 2007 Annual Development and Reconstruction Plan, which was adopted by the National Assembly. In fact, the delivery of electrical equipment works is still completed in time for transmission within the scheduled deadline. The audit request is currently in the decision-making process of the State Audit Commission, as today an application was submitted by the tenderers for the continuation of the procedure on the State Audit Commission. In 2007, works, construction works will continue on the rapid road route from kilometre 6.2 to kilometre 10 and deviacies on bridge facilities, viaduct in the Poles and tunnels of Tabor and Barnica. The planned funding in the 2007 Annual Development and Reconstruction Plan amounts to €36.57 million and the construction is financed from the own resources of the investor, the Italian Treasury loan and the bank's financial credit. If you'll allow me a brief description of the concrete works in the section itself, what's going on. First, I would like to say that this section of the Ribnica represents the most difficult section of the fast road on the leg against Nova Gorica because of the very difficult geology. In fact, this is the third hard nut in Slovenia, built by the Republic of Slovenia within the motorway cross. The section itself begins at a kilometre of 1,075 at the end of the already built split of Razkrta and descends against Vipava, in the largest band of 6%. It ends in Vipava connection at 12,055 miles. The road is designed as a four-way fast road with no lanes, a total width of 19.8 meters, with break-out niches at every 800 meters, and in trenches due to additional Koritsa and Barnica total width of 21 meters. First, I'd like to brief you on the condition on the upper side of the route across the Ribnica. In particular, all construction contracts have been signed in recent years and most of the works have also been carried out. Viadukt Mlačevo is the first: The works on the facility are closed. Viaduct Borst 1: all except for hydroisolation on the asphalt of the vehicle. Viaduct Borst 2 and the pilot scene. The pilot scene is closed, viaduct based in Vodnjak. Viaducta Rebrnica and Sumnjak are performed all except hydroisolations on the asphalt of the vehicle. Covered pit Ribnica 1 and Ribnica 2: everything is performed except for the vehicle in the covered trenches. Pilot wall over side removal, pilot wall and dam construction is completed, monitoring is carried out. Viaduct in the Poles: the foundation is complete, the pillars and part of the above structure are built. Excavation in the rapid road route, from P 285 to P 295: In the final phase, the project is for three wells up to a depth of 35 meters to stabilize the trench. Viadukt Polance: Foundation on wells is completed, construction of pillars is under way. Route of fast road in the upper part: 90% of the upper structure is performed. And some more information. On the relevant part of the route across the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a Regulation amending and supplementing the State site plan in 2006. All construction contracts have already been signed. In order to implement the reconstruction equipment of tunnels and trenches with an estimated value of €8.6 million without VAT, the decision to initiate the procedure was confirmed on 30.1.2006. On 20.2. prior to the opening of tenders, there was already a request for a review, which, as has already been said, continues on the State Audit Commission. Viaduct Barnica, completed foundation on wells and construction of the right object. The construction of the pillars and the construction of the upper structures are under way. Viadukt Tabor: Foundation is complete, viaduct pillars are built and two thirds of the above structure is constructed. Then the Barnica and Tabor tunnels: the contractor was introduced into work on 24.10.2006 and the deadline is 24.2.2008. Routes, ground works are intensively carried out supporting structures, omissions and facilities are in conclusion. So, if I finish, this quick road, if I can. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It'll be open in the first half of next year. [[...]] We are, of course, fighting for perhaps the first part, one way, to open up even a few months earlier, and the second part then immediately after we redirect the traffic and when the work is done [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Would you like an extra one? Thank you. Mr Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology will be asked a question by Mr Samo Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Botanical Garden, established as a garden of native flora, will celebrate the celebration of its existence and operation in three years. Ljubljana became the capital of the then Illyrian provinces in 1810. Naturalist Franz Hladnik, born in Idrija, the first director and founder of the garden, managed to preserve this garden with the return of the Austrian authorities. The garden, thanks to him, continued its work, which continues unceasingly to this day. In addition to NUK, this is the oldest continuous operating facility in our country. Nevertheless, the botanical species in Ljubljana, compared to others in our area, which are significantly younger, has no national importance on the part of the state of regulated status of the institution. To my question exactly two years ago, you answered me that the Ministry of Higher Education is aware of the importance of these very important institutions and we are also preparing everything that will be celebrated in five years when the 200-year-old is properly celebrated. That is why we have called for coordination. The problem is, it's kind of a child of four parents. In addition, you have assured me that the botanical garden is to become a monument of state importance and that in the 2006 and 2007 budgets you will provide adequate financial resources. Within two years, the Ministry's coordination has not formally been established. Indeed, representatives at the initiative of the former dean of the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, Prof. Dr. Jožet Ostrc, met several times at this time, but the presence of the ministries was quite modest or negligible. Once or twice without their participation. During this time the garden status has not changed. The financial situation has even deteriorated and the human resources situation has been undernourished for many years. Of the four foster parents, only the Municipality of Ljubljana was aware of its obligations so far. Unfortunately, in this year's city budget, she has taken out an investment in a plant. I ask you, Your Honor, Minister Dr. Zupan: Why did we lose two precious years? And what are you actually going to do by the end of your term of office to improve the situation at the University Botanical Garden in Ljubljana? Here I am referring to the status, financial and humane position of the University Botanical Garden. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u114	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor. I'm aware of your concern for the botanical garden, which in a few years will be celebrating a celebrated 200-year-old. I think we share that concern with you. In view of this, I can tell you that something has been done, but of course everyone must take appropriate action. Immediately following this question, as you rightly said, this coordination committee was established. I've repeatedly asked them to meet there. But the fact is, someone has to arrange or properly implement these plans. By the fact that - formally speaking - the Botanical Garden is an internal organisational unit of the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology from our point of view, which means that it has an interference with work, that is to say, to prepare a plan to prepare appropriate documentation to prepare all of this, the University of Ljubljana, specifically the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, has it. From this point of view, because now the funding of the university has changed, which means that the university has funding in a piece, they have to show it in their work. From our point of view, however, the Botanical Garden received a total of €77,325 in 2006. That's what they say. It was done. A bottle, a document of an investment project was made and a project documentation will be further developed. That is also why this needs to be prepared in the financial budget of the University. That's what we warned them about. I hope that they will now prepare this further work. That's why we're ready. It is said that the procedure for itself, through the type is ready and is reasonable to expect that in the appropriate size and technical equipment the bottle will be built in 2008. So that's what was done. But that's not enough. In fact, we all know the Botanical Garden is kind of small and is in an inappropriate location. As a result, a new botanical garden or, as we call it, Botanical Garden 2 is envisaged at the location of the Hill. It is because of this national importance that we have specifically highlighted this botanical garden at the Brdo site and named it in one of these 35 national programmes of the resolution. I have a resolution here before me. This is programme 3.2 Politechnika Ljubljana, in which a new botanical garden is explicitly mentioned in this north-west part of Politechnika in the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology. If I read this to you, it says, "Centre of New Technology and Design, on the other hand, will be the Faculty of Science and Technology of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, Faculty of Biotechnology, National Institute of Biology with Botanical Gardens." And that's in here. This is a whole project that has not yet been developed in these details. However, our group has been appointed and this will be an absolute project of Politechnika. Of course, the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology will have to take over its share of planning and take over all of this, and our ministry will run a whole project consisting of several sub-projects. And this is one of the subprojects. In this, we have also assured our ministry. This is a project worth €50 million and from this, from the budget resources of €16 million. Well, we think it'll be done. This is in the programmes and projects, and I hope that we will step up a little together. I'm grateful for that question. And together at Biotech, we're going to cut a little bit to keep them a little bit more active. It is necessary to know, however, that the initiative has been launched and all the professional plans for this are part of the Faculty of Biotechnical Engineering, which the Ministry for a specific facility as it is, does not have such experts to prepare that basic documentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, the Resolution on National Development Projects 2007 to 2023 includes a new botanical garden in the framework of Politechnik Ljubljana - but in my opinion it would be necessary to deal with things in particular in the human and financial field now, if this matter is to be carried out seriously, because it is not such a negligible project to be created overnight. There is also one doubt, which we heard on national television about a week ago by a representative of your ministry, that this project could be started. It may have been highlighted in particular before 2013, but everything should depend on the priorities of your ministry. It is said that this project should somehow start to live after 2013, and it is less likely before this period, although we know that the resolution is expected to enter into force as early as this year or next year. That is why I think that we should make some moves in the human resources and especially in the financial field right now. That's why I'm kind of getting the feeling that this botanical garden in the national resolution is just a letter on paper. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Can we expect any more concrete action in your mandate, since the last meeting on 6 July 2005 is mainly about the fact that this committee should also be formally established? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u118	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you very much. At this point, I agree with you. Look, if there's a college, a university that's in charge of something that's been asked to do so, I think it's imperative that we take this seriously, and by special letter, we're going to warn this group that we're going to bring it back to life, that, as it's called, we're going to encourage it, and we're going to talk to it. But the fact is that they have to prepare this base - as I said - for the bottle is taken care of and will probably be done in 2008 at the current pace. More importantly, let's move on to this other part, so to a new location. It is explicitly written here that this will be done by 2013. This project is until 2013. This is said to be complete, so the whole of the technique is planned in this shorter period, i.e. in the first period. We're gonna have to fight for priorities. That's quite clear. In this part, the University of Ljubljana is most responsible to set its priorities as it thinks it is the right thing to do. We can influence it, we can make suggestions, but the university is the one that gives its priorities. And even if we were involved in this, then of course someone would immediately say, "But here you are interfering with our autonomy" and so on. So, I thank you for this initiative, we will say that MEPs in the National Assembly are asking because they believe that taxpayers' money should be earmarked for this as a priority. Let's say in this sense the same thing as a biotech college or in this part of work, and we'll just drive it parallel. But it's clear that we need this. That is why we need a decision from both the Senate and the entire University of Ljubljana to do so, because we, that is, the Ministry of Investment, based on the decision of the Senate of the University of Ljubljana and the Management Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Minister for Transport and the Minister for Home Affairs will be asked a question by Mr Mitja Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! I have repeatedly pointed out the problem of excessive traffic through Pomurje, including you, with respect for the Minister, and finally in a written question to the Prime Minister Janez Janša, who, among other things, replied to me that the Government would try to harmonise the flow of traffic, namely the volume of traffic with the flow of the road through police action and the shift of freight traffic to railways. Truck traffic is still on the rise, and unfortunately, my announcement on the question of the Member State to Mr Mag. She proved real to Christmas on December 14, 2005. At that time, I announced that, by the end of the year, the volume of truck traffic would increase to 100,000 vehicles per month, which you said optimistically then, Mr Minister, that no such drastic increase would be expected in the coming year. Unfortunately, these 100,000 have already passed to nearly 120,000, and the volume of traffic is still increasing. I wonder why, despite the fact that road closure had been announced in the event that there would be more than 100,000 trucks a month three times in a row, the government did not take any preventive measures to prevent such a truly unsustainable situation? So, Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask you: What measures are envisaged in the implementation of the police and how do you intend to divert the goods from the roads to the railways? And most of all, I want to know: What is the expected dynamics in the implementation of these measures, since we cannot accept that it is a year and a half or even less before the highway is built, and by then the Pomurians will suffer? And the other thing is: Why, despite the forecast of road closures through Pomurje in the event that the volume of traffic will be more than 100,000 trucks per month, the Ministry did not take preventive action and properly align with the flow of G-1/3 road and why, even with possible legal measures, such as, say, the prohibition of traffic through Mursko Sobota, which still applies at night at least temporarily until the construction of the highway, does it not ensure that this road is safe for residents with it and, on the other hand, bearable for Pomurje? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u122	Mr. Mag. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much for asking Mr. Ambassador Slavinec. In fact, I will try to answer in principle in the first part and in the second part in particular. It's about traffic problems in Pomure. The policy of shifting freight from road to rail is the long-term transport policy of the European Union and the Republic of Slovenia. The transfer of freight to the railway on certain sections, such as between Hodoš and Pragerski, is possible only by the introduction of a special train with special low-level wagons. However, the fact is that with the transfer of freight to the railway they would not capture and save more than 5% of daily traffic. Another much larger problem is the shift of freight traffic to the Hodoš railway station. This diversion would also take place through narrow villages and settlements along local and regional R-3 roads, which are totally inappropriate for the reception of heavy traffic. Therefore, one of the key activities to address the problem of the construction of the highway cross is the problem. The dynamics of building road infrastructure in the most sensitive areas is the following, namely, a 7.8km road on the Maribor-Lenart route, which is expected to be dedicated to transport by December of this year at the latest, then a 43.4 km road on the Lenart-Beltinci route, which is expected to be dedicated at the latest by the end of 2008. But I hope it's sooner. The route on the Beltinci-Pince route is 40.9 kilometers long, which is also intended for the transfer of traffic as Lenart-Beltinci. However, we cannot agree with the claim that despite the increasing freight traffic, which has indeed exceeded 100,000 vehicles per month in the last three months, the main road G-1/3 is inconclusive. Despite the difficult transport situation due to the high share of freight transport in the common transport infrastructure, which already reaches 3,500 trucks a day, the country has invested 13.2 million euros in short-term measures to improve road traffic flow and traffic security over the past three years and will invest another 3.84 million euros until it passes the motorway. So a total of 17 million euros in modernisation of this state road. The fact is that traffic flows are increasing mainly on account of the rise of heavy freight traffic in the whole fifth corridor, from Ukraine to Spain, so that similar problems are encountered elsewhere. For example, in Hungary, on those parts of motorways M3, Budapest - state border for Ukraine and M7 and M70, this is Budapest - state border with Slovenia, where the highway has not yet been built. As early as 2004, the Ministry of Transport had been actively engaged in the possibility of introducing administrative measures to mitigate the growth of freight traffic in the East-West route. The Republic of Slovenia, on the basis of its commitments to ensure mobility in the European transport corridors provided for in the Accession Treaty to the European Union, has no possibility of limiting freight traffic through administrative measures. In this respect, it is the duty of the State to allow free circulation and not to prohibit it in any way on a permanent or temporary basis. At the Ministry of Transport, we therefore reiterate that the construction of adequate road infrastructure is properly set as the main priority of the measures to address the problem described. In this Instead 20-month time until the transfer of motorway traffic, we will need to transport technical measures together with the police to reduce the negative effects of increased road freight traffic in Pomura itself. And I'd like to give Minister Matthew a chance to complete me in this part of the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Thank you for asking. I would add that this year the police tightened road traffic control on G1-V6. So, in March, we began to intensively prepare certain enhanced controls. In this way, the Murska Sobota Police Administration shall carry out monthly at least 12 additional tighter controls on cargo vehicles and shall include in this work, at least four times a month, companies with vehicle weighing equipment. Also every month, at least 4 times comes into this area a special specialised traffic control unit, which is located at the Republic level and has all the equipment for carrying out technical inspections of vehicles crossing the state border in the Long Village, and carries out such inspections, and with these measures we somehow provide an additional inspection of vehicles and their technical feasibility for driving in this area. At the same time, with the measures we have taken during this period.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Would you like another answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you very much. From this answer, I get the feeling that the government and the ministry, especially yours, the respected Minister of Christmas, don't mean it. Don't mean it, but he wants to wait or convince people to wait another year and a half and everything will be fine. But I warn you that everything is not all right, because the volume of traffic is so dangerous that it is dangerous and that it is unsustainable and that this road does not have so much flow. Look, we also have cases where traffic can be diverted somewhere else. Last Saturday afternoon I drove from Ljubljana to Murski Sobota and was surprised from Maribor why there were not so many trucks. And then I remembered that there were three hearts in the Radenci Marathon and there was a roadblock. Before that, I was told that the trucks were diverted to Ormož and just across that road. It's a good case if you want to, you can. I am really warning you, Mr Minister, that it is better for you, as the Government, to take care of this than for the announced action to be taken by the committee accompanying it. And just yesterday, there was a car accident because the truck was parked in the wrong place. So, because there was this volume of traffic and because they don't have anywhere to park on Sunday. All I'm saying is, if Slovenia had the Pannon Sea instead of the Adriatic Sea, I'm sure it wouldn't have driven such a road through Pomurje. And I'm really asking you to answer me: What are the short-term measures to improve the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you very much for the additional question or explanation. I would just like to remind Mr Slavinc that the Government and the Ministry are taking very seriously the traffic going through this part of Slovenia. The answer here on the palm is that the Government has rushed to build the ferryway, which, of course, was a necessity due to heavy traffic, due to the rerouting of traffic flows after entry, particularly Bulgaria and Romania, into the European Union. In fact, in the national programme, these deadlines, which this National Assembly adopted in 2004, were moved considerably back. That's one. Second. I would like to reiterate once again that we have implemented a series of measures and we are still implementing them in the area of G13, which is an existing road that we want to ease in some way the problems that are on the move. In fact, from this place I ask the inhabitants and especially those who are affected by this large amount of traffic that is rolling down this G13 road to really try to endure, and we will look at and do everything that we can, in fact, within the scope of the opportunities we have, do so. Both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport. Of course, what was said to be tried by prisons to block, I think there could be great chaos and cause even greater problems and problems. Let's try to help ourselves, both the state and the local communities. Above all, all those who in some way can do much in terms of traffic safety. It's like schools, like all those who deal with road safety, something more. Therefore, a greater presence of all participants, all those involved in this process. On my part, we'll see what we can do. However, I think that the contributions we have made, in addition to those agreed EUR 6 million, together EUR 17 million, mean that all of this will remain for all the inhabitants. And the actual opening time is getting closer. The first part, as I said, is already this year, the end of the year. The remaining two sections next year. I hope that, given that performers are in a great hurry with parts to really try, which is also seen on the whole route, that if time serves this winter and goes hand in hand, we will really open up before the contracts. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be asked a question by Mrs Maria Possonec. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! To the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Nutrition of Iztok Jarc, I ask the following question: I wonder what the Ministry intends to do about the problem of Slovenian livestock? Slovenia, in particular Prekmurje, has always been an area dominated by livestock as an agricultural sector. Today our barns are empty, pastures grow bushes. According to Prekmurje, the livestock industry is extinct and meat must be imported. Slovenian consumers deserve to enjoy quality Slovenian meat and not foreign imported meat of suspicious origin. Also, livestock farming, if well organised, could provide a decent livelihood for farmers, and would also help to preserve rural populations. I believe that the Minister will be successful when the Slovenian stables or premure stables, because especially there is a large, once again full of livestock. That is why I ask the Minister: What will be the strategy for the rescue of the livestock sector in Slovenia, especially in Prekmurje? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for this important question. So, first of all, as far as the economic situation in livestock is concerned. Based on data from the Agricultural Institute of Slovenia by sector over the last two years, we have seen an increase in the available income in agriculture as a whole. In fact, the biggest account is livestock, if we are looking at the whole of Slovenia. In the last two years, according to the assessment of the Agricultural Institute, the largest real income has actually been achieved during the observed period. That's from 1992 on. We note that this income has increased since the second consecutive year, mainly due to higher prices that the industry is also reaching in export markets. Some price-cost movements are also favourable, and in particular income has some specific content due to subsidies. I would like to point out that the area of milk and the area of dairy cows or meat products was also regulated by quotas at the time we entered the European Union. We have quotas for milk and quotas for so-called dairy cows, which in some ways stabilises or confuses joint production, but in this way also retains some relatively favourable price level. As regards the stock data, I would say that the stock of bovine animals on agricultural holdings has remained stable in recent years. At the end of 2006, there were 454,000 head of cattle on farms in Slovenia, about half a percent more than in 2005. We note, however, that the structure of the bovine animals is very different or that there are changes due to different price relationships. I would also like to say that when we choose the direct payments system that is being introduced this year, but especially now they are not livestock farmers, Slovenia is one of those members of the European Union, which will also take care of the so-called historic payments. This is especially the case for special premiums for bovine animals and for additional payments for sheep and goats. I would also like to say that in the rural development programme we have identified specific measures that promote certain specific forms of animal rearing, such as the sonar farming of domestic animals, organic farming, the cultivation of indigenous and traditional breeds of domestic animals, the rearing of domestic animals in the medium term of the emergence of large animals, mountain pastures and so on. On the other hand, of course, I am personally aware that the situation in Pomur is a little different in this area than it is generally in Slovenia. The mussel is also more plant-oriented. So that we have already spoken with the Agricultural and Economics Institute of Murska Sobota to check the situation in this area, and we may see if certain investments in professional work could be made in the selection of some steps in this area. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Poxon.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. I'd be happy if those data were also for Prekmurje, but no. Believe me, I know the village personally. There are no more cows to show to children, absolutely. And they can't collect milk. So, nothing. I ask you then to listen to the cattle, who are desperate to know what they are doing, organize exhibitions of the fox breed, cattle of the fox breed. Listen to them, give them a hand. 16. will be in Gornja Radgona and you will probably have to make other captures if you want to activate that province. Thank you very much for your efforts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u136	A word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Like I said. This can ensure that we have additional meetings with the Murska Sobota Agricultural Institute, with experts and see what investments are needed and what the Ministry can do to strengthen possible professional work, both in selection and in other professional activities, and also to see what opportunities are there to help with investments in this area in your unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Finance Minister will be asked a question by Mr Sašo Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u139	Your Honors are here! Allow me to begin, in my opinion, my question of the Member of Parliament with the emergence of two facts. This is the first time that the management, the existing management of the New Bank of Maribor does not follow the policy of a good master, except that this would be one of the strategic generators for the development of the Maribor wider Podravska region, not least Slovenia. The fact is, at least in my opinion, the management is not in charge of financial affairs. This is bad for the country, for the country as owner. The fact is that the operations of the above-mentioned administration or banks are exclusively tied to primary banking transactions, which in the long term does not mean the energy which is somehow the basis for the national being and which should be implemented by the monetary institution, such as the New Bank of Maribor, in its premises. And the second fact that our country, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia, has very little experience with the past sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. From this title, I ask you: Mr Minister, given that you have blocked yourself from the National Assembly in deciding on the privatisation system, the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has achieved privatisation itself with the assistance of foreigners you have hired as experts. From this title I point out a new appearance of the existing case, namely that there is incredibly bad chemistry between the Government and the New Bank of Maribor. Please fix me if you don't. I come from the fact that the management of the New Bank of Maribor is trying to channel all of its energy into the pursuit of some individual interests which, in the first stage, are reflected in, in my opinion, controversial transactions in the hinterland of Zadar and not least in the reading of exclusively their positions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I know, tried through a supervisory committee, but unfortunately it failed to achieve a different policy. But let me touch myself from this place despite the conflict between the financial institution and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the privatisation system, as proposed within your ministry or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, Mr Minister, that both you and the former Minister of Finance have left out of your behaviour, you have deliberately omitted the obligation of the National Assembly to adopt a basic constitutional charter. I personally invited you three times this year, or I addressed three questions to you and one to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to which I have not received a single answer. The fact is that this privatisation system, as you suggest, is, in my opinion, aimed at some unrealistic picture. In particular, bearing in mind that there is no common language with certain members of the administration. Therefore, in the first part, I would ask you if you could provide a system of privatisation by word of mouth at the time at your disposal. This will be followed by my substantive question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to focus on the legal framework for the privatisation of state property. The legal framework is governed by the Public Finance Act, which was adopted in 2000, then corrected in 2002 and also in 2006, in its sixth chapter, Sales of State or municipal financial and real property. However, more detailed procedures and methods of sale are regulated by the Regulation on the sale and other forms of disposal of the financial assets of the State and municipalities adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the express statutory authority and the duty imposed by the law. However, the Public Finance Act provides that the sale of property may be effected if the following formal conditions are met. Firstly, the subject matter must be included in the annual sales programme of the State. As an annex to the draft annual budget, it shall be submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by 1 October of the current year for the following year. A commission for the execution and control of the property sale procedure appointed by the chairman of the competent direct user shall be appointed. An individual sales programme must be adopted with all legal elements. The sale of assets, represented by shares in the New Bank of Maribor, is provided for in the Decree amending and supplementing the Decision on the Sales Programme of the State Financial and Real Property for 2006 and 2007 and in the Resolution on the Sales Programme of the State Financial and Real Property for 2007 and 2008. Both of these documents were adopted by this respected National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 23 October 2006, the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Regulation, appointed the Commission for the management and control of the sale process of capital investment of the Republic of Slovenia, represented by the shares of the NKBM. On 11 May, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance pursuant to Article 80d of the Public Finance Act, a separate programme for the sale of capital investment, represented by the shares of NKBM. Through the adopted programme, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia aims to achieve the following objectives: establishing a ownership structure that will ensure effective management, competitiveness and successful development of the New Bank of Maribor in the future, transparency of all sales processes, positive impact on the capital market and achieving the highest possible purchase in this context. Following the sale of NKBM, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the implementation of the programme in accordance with article 80th of the Public Finance Act. As a result of all of this, the sale process of NKBM is carried out in accordance with those provisions of the law adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not infringed any powers conferred on it by the Public Finance Act in the procedures for the sale of assets of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the decision of the National Assembly of the Extraordinary Meeting of 27 July 1994, concerning the privatisation of banks, we consider the following: the decision speaks of the preparation of a proposal for the privatisation law of banks, which has never been tabled and adopted. As a result, the sale of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia was not regulated by law. Only through the adoption of additions and amendments to the Public Finance Act 2002 which introduced a chapter on the sale of state or municipal financial and real property into the existing law has this area been regulated. Therefore, the Public Finance Act and the Regulation are the only legal basis for the sale of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia, which, of course, includes the sale of state-owned banks. In accordance with the provisions of those legal acts, the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank in 2002 was also carried out. In addition, it should be noted that the law in relation to the decision is a higher standard of law and thus one which must also be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u142	Would you like further answers? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u143	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! But this time, I must say, you really let me down. Not because I know we wouldn't know, but because I know that you know and I know that you are deliberately missing the most important elements of the history of recovery and the final preparations for privatisation. The fact is that the legal act for privatisation within our country is only one and is, on the basis of the hierarchy of legal acts, the most important and unfortunately omitted. Why? We'll come back to that later. This is a supplement to the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted at the closed meeting of the National Assembly. This act, I have therefore called on the President of the National Assembly, as President of the Government, to withdraw from it the degree of confidentiality of the document, so that the Slovenian public, professional and laziness, can be taught what Slovenian policy, what the Slovenian executive authorities were saying and doing before the period of the resolution of the banking system. In your entire response, you did not mention the word rehabilitation. Mr Minister, in exchange for the rehabilitation of the old state of both banks, namely the Ljubljana Bank and the Maribor Credit Bank, two laws were passed, the bond guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia issued for the rehabilitation of banks and savings banks, and the law that changed these bonds into agency bonds. But of course, suddenly after that, 2,200 million German marks were lost. And what I really don't think is worth it, Mr Minister, and I hope that you will say that you have forgotten is that you hope for this National Assembly and those who are watching us to deceive also around the decision adopted in 1994, where you point out from the content of the decision only the first part, that is the need for a privatisation law that is not. That's one of the reasons why I'm referring to you with a question, but for the conclusion, it doesn't end, but it's a comma. The law will, however, provide for the participation of citizens in privatisation procedures. And you're ignoring that. Mr. Minister, and if we're talking about percentages of sales, then you have to be aware of who will. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u144	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Obviously this is a topic that will take longer than the Rules of Procedure offer us in this session of questions and answers. But the fact is, and this is our assessment that the legal act that actually solved this matter was just the Public Finance Act with all its six chapters, which complemented, what and what can be done with the sale of these state-owned shares. I think it is clear to everyone that Slovenian citizens and citizens, through debt and service of this debt, actually carried the weight of the rehabilitation of these institutions on their shoulders. No doubt about it. That is why the law also requires that when it is sold, it is only used to reduce debt and perhaps for a very different matter, which the National Assembly must also approve in any way. And that's how it kept going. And that's how it's been done so far. The fact is that Slovenia is one of the countries of the European Union that has the lowest debt. Among other things, because no matter what government it was, these sales assets, the funds that came from the sale of the stake in the New Ljubljana Bank, were entirely, not immediately, indeed, that then a few years had passed before it was finally used, but those funds had been used just like the Public Finances Act. So I'm not hiding in this debate. Surely we will have an even greater opportunity to discuss these matters. For the time being, on the basis of the legal framework as it is and interpreted by the Government, this proposal, adopted by the Government on the basis of the work of this Commission, which has also been designated under the Regulation, is in full conformity with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it is a good proposal and, as far as the Slovenian public is even more aware of this, it will also prove to be a long-term smart approach to how to resolve this matter. On the one hand, to ensure the withdrawal of the State and, on the other hand, only to ensure that this institution, with all its subsidiaries and related institutions, actually serves as one of the All-Slovenian banks, which will operate primarily in the field of public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u147	Mr Minister, I agree with you only, of course, in that part, that it would be right to have a broader debate, but then, for God's sake, allow your ruling Members to support my procedural proposal tomorrow, where you will have the exact same opportunity as any of the Members to speak, in my opinion, about one of the major "lumpariums" that took place in the independent Republic of Slovenia, and according to your assessment, according to one of the most honest things that are going on in this situation. Mr Minister, during your reply to my question - the first part, you have not touched the answer in your relations with the administration. And me and you, I believe, many other Members know that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot control the administration despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the real manager of the assets of the Republic of Slovenia and that we are citizens and citizens of the owners. From this title, Mr Bajuk, I would like a debate, but there will be no debate unless you tell your Members that they will support this procedural proposal or the current procedural proposal on my part tomorrow. So please, you will also have the opportunity to confirm the words you are quoting. Allow me to point out what may seem most banal to me in the whole matter, that you are talking about the content of a basic constitutional charter with a different substance, or that you are ascribed to it a different content than I am. However, you shall not allow a degree of confidentiality to be withdrawn from this document so that this document may have MPs and Members and everyone else in their hands. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Finance Minister and the Governor of the National Bank or the Central Bank spoke about the future privatisation. Not the privatisation that takes place in a given situation on the basis of a proposal that you have offered, but in that context, that citizens and citizens must be paid back on the basis of the bonds issued. These were quite a few in the period until 1997, when the central bank also issued a certificate of successful resolution of the banking system. I have a list of all the bonds in front of me. This is a topic that we should discuss, and you come to the Republic of Slovenia, to the foreign and domestic public with a proposal offering 25% of the equity share purchased on the stock exchange. Mr. Bajuk, which institutional investor will buy this kind of land 7%, 8%, 10% without having an impact on the administration? Then he will be able to follow only the dividends he receives, which he will not be able to influence. And that's why the way you propose to privatize it is as unsuccessful as the privatisation system of the New Ljubljana Bank, to which you haven't even identified itself as negative, and we all know it. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u148	Mr. Pache, I'm going to formulate your procedural question. The proposal by Mr Saš Pečet to hold a debate on his question at the next meeting will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Thank you. The Minister of Finance, however, will be asked a question by the Member States, Mr Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Citizens and citizens, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister! As Minister of Finance, you are responsible for the trust of the financial system and responsible for the functioning of the capital market. It is precisely due to the inequality of access to information on the capital market and the irresponsible behaviour of individual institutions and legal persons that the gap between the handful of richer individuals and the rest of the population is increasing in Slovenia. It would be difficult to call this a society of justice, a society of harmonious development. I am aware that the period of economic transition has left some issue unresolved and allows for the possibility that all the proposed solutions have not been sufficient. That's what you warned about during the election campaign, Mr. Minister. It was this populism gesture of greater justice that you spoke of to guarantee it that gave you power. The authorities say this because instead of continuing to build the success story so far, you protect only the individual interests of the elite representatives and you are in a position to subjugate everything: the economy, public servants, the media, the repressive authorities. It is known that a transfer of social property took place during the transition. We all received certificates to place them in Slovenian companies or in special authorised investment companies, which, on our behalf, would fertilise those certificates for a certain percentage of the annual commission, if possible on an average as effective as the effective Slovenian economy. However, the result today is that most of these people are harmed, that pid certification was not the most successful for everyone, but mainly for a few groups of individuals, including authorised operators. I cannot agree with such a policy by the fact that pids act irresponsibly. That is why, a year and a half ago, I proposed to the National Assembly for admission the Law on Legal Successions of Authorised Investment Companies. The law was substantively corrected, but at the time he came across the evidence by the government, czech, the government has similar ideas, the law cannot support and you guaranteed that you would prepare a better solution. Five hundred days after the marriage, you sent amendments to the National Assembly a few days ago. I ask you, Mr. Minister: Why the long preparation of the amendment to the Law on the pids? How damaged were the shareholders of the special authorised investment companies during this period? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I wanted to introduce you to the fact that the government has already sent this law into consideration. You've already mentioned it yourself. However, it is part of three key laws that are now under consideration in this National Assembly. And this is the Law on the Market of Financial Instruments and so-called ZISDU, the Law on Management Companies. Of course, the government is aware of the pressing problems of small shareholders, the legal successors of authorised investment companies and therefore supports the basic purpose of the bill. This is the protection of the interests of thousands of small investors from certified privatisation. However, it complements, builds on some of the solutions to the proposal of the Law on Legal Successions, which you submitted in 2006 to the consideration of the group of Members with the first signed mags. With a drill. I must reiterate that the identical text of the proposal which was sent to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia procedure is already in 2004. All data on the justification of the law also relate to 2004 and do not reflect changes in the actual situation. The proposed law also does not take into account the fact that, over time, it changes both the Company Act and the takeover Act, which have further regulated the area of the rights of small shareholders. In short, we expect, as I have already mentioned, the adoption of the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which will replace the current Securities Markets Act and will bring strong reporting standards to public companies. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared appropriate amendments to the proposal for a law, a proposal for a law since 2006, equivalent to the one since 2004, that it has proposed to the National Assembly, in a second reading, the adoption of these amendments. With the proposed amendments, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduces strict provisions for successor companies. They are, among other things, an obligation to the status of a public company. Thus, the obligation to include their shares in trading on an organised securities market. The same requirement applies to companies that have withdrawn from the organised market and have to reclassify shares in organised trade and report to the Securities Market Agency. The legal successors of the authorised investment companies are also subject to the obligation to pay a reasonable amount of money for the share in accordance with the provisions of the Company Act, the amended version already adopted in this National Assembly, which the successors will be obliged to pay to the small shareholders in the event of withdrawal or exclusion from the organised market, as well as in the event of possible conversions. The companies of the successors are also subject to mandatory public publication of information on exit or exclusion for organised markets, as well as the public publication of the appropriate remittances offered. All legal successors of pids shall be supervised by the Securities Market Agency and reported monthly on the basis of laws governing the securities market and investment funds. For example, a monthly report on investment policy. Penalties for violators are also provided for, which ensures minority shareholders that they will also be granted adequate remuneration for shares. Let me also mention that the Government has supported the proposal by the law in the segment concerning the possibility of shareholders to submit a proposal for a review and thus have the right to challenge the amount of the appropriate remittance offered by the successor company if they consider that the exemption is too low. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has therefore adopted amendments to address the problem of small shareholders in a comprehensive and long-term effective way without focusing on the search for culprits and focusing on the actual protection of the rights of minority shareholders. But if you want us to look for them, we're willing to look for them. We believe that the strict provisions prescribed by the amendment for successor companies will help to protect the small shareholders of these companies. We also believe, honourable Members and Members, that you will also support the proposed amendments when they are considered. However, since I have a few more seconds, and I would like to say that, if I am wondering, it is not that this question has been raised now, I am surprised that this question has not been raised by the previous government, which has for many years maintained such a system of imprudentity in a planned way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer, Mr. Squeakl? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. What you said with the exception of this last addendum to the amendment and we read this in the National Assembly on 12 May when we received it. My question was, why did the Government take a year to prepare the amendment? [[I'll be right there.]] Thank you. Of course, even for the answer, and I agree with this last part. True, it was very difficult in the previous government to draft the Law on the Legal Successions of Authorised Investment Companies for the sake of known interests. And because of these well-known interests, also in this National Assembly, a very interesting coalition of Members, Mr Vizjak, gentlemen of the LDS, including some of the other parties, signed the proposal to consider a general discussion first. Therefore, it was not possible to implement and adopt this law in the previous term. But for three years now, congregations have been held for the third year. Mr Minister, I ask you, in connection with the adoption of the Act on takeovers, which you gave in your mandate. How and to what extent do you assess the amount of damage suffered by small shareholders? Let me just give you a few very interesting cases. Istra Benz's example of printing small shareholders in the drug company Kolinska. The case of Lip Bled, where it is clear that the banks have taken as a guarantee shares not yet held by the owners. This has been banned until recently, but the takeover law does not explicitly prohibit this. And that's why I'm asking you, Minister: What is your assessment of how small shareholders in the cases of Istria Benz, Droge Kolinske, Lip Bleda, etc. were injured during your government? And will you do anything for your government's mandate? Please give us the indicative value. What are you going to do to eliminate these anomalies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u154	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I'm really sorry. Looks like you didn't listen to my answer. I also made it clear why this delay happened. It is too late because the proposal, which was declared or presented in the 2006 National Assembly, had significant shortcomings. At that time, he was preparing a new Law on Economic Companies, and then the Law on takeovers, which, given the fact that this went through a normal procedure and this is a key legislation in the field of economics, took more time. Then it was also not in accordance with the directives that we knew had already been adopted. That is why we are late with the ZTFI Finance Market Act, that is to say the financial instruments and the whole package that is ahead of you today, but the legislation that will actually redefine and ensure the transparent and solid development of our capital market by allowing those who can invest most today. And this in our Republic of Slovenia is still a small shareholder, not this large institution, to allow and come in the most transparent way. However, we cannot afford to be expected to do so, and then we would require changes in this area if we do not provide legal protection for small shareholders. What was the loss? I don't know. I didn't calculate it. Maybe you have this loss. Surely, when you arrive on a day with such information, how many small shareholders may have been pressed or "flanked" during this period. Certainly, however, it would be very interesting to compare how many Slovenians were "frozen" under the previous rule when the whole saddest story of our transition, the certificates, how they were managed and worked, how much was lost at the time. He's getting better here now. I understand that we would like to place on the shoulders of this government the entire guilt of transition irregularities, to use the gentlest word that came to mind at this point. But the fact is that this legislation is before you, that it will actually fix it in a completely different way than you have proposed, Mr Mag. Squeak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u156	Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Yes, I propose that, in accordance with Article 246(2), we discuss my question and the Minister's answer. In the end, Mr. Minister has set a very interesting thesis on the extent to which someone has been injured and what someone has done about this injury. Let me remember, of course, the House of Respect, that the previous government led by the Minister of Finance, Mr Maramor, proposed that this property should be taxed at a 50% marginal rate in the course of its implementation. In order, if it was estimated that someone had actually acquired an unjustifiable profit and realized it, it would then be taxed at a 50% marginal rate. May I remind you, Mr Bajuk, that it was Mr Bajuk who suggested that this 50% tax should be reduced by a chedular tax to 20%. This was a proposal and was adopted here in this National Assembly. So that the debate on injury and what and who, how it affects and subordinates to capital would be a very important debate. It is also applicable to discuss the content of the takeover law. Why, at the time of the Law on takeovers, what is happening today is legally permissible, the media report that, of course, managers, because this is not explicitly prohibited, they take or give to banks to guarantee shares that they do not yet have. Let me remind you that the previous government, with a constitutional dispute in the case of the Triglav Insurance Company, has managed to prevent this. This government, after having recently claimed in the opposition that these shares should be given to all Slovenes and Slovenians, proposed that only the people in the capital fund should be eligible for these shares. When we have the current government, so-called - the minister was very bitter - the damage to state property continues. And, of course, I'm interested in discussing it. I would like to ask: Why is it necessary, in the case of a shareholder of Droga Kolinska Košak, to seek his right in court, when the Court operates or fails to act? Why are the Court and Kad not acting to protect small shareholders? Why, in the case of LIP Bled, are the SODs and KADs, realizing that managers are lending credit to the companies they are buying, actually entering into this business? Is this because the directors of these companies are close to the ruling elite or because they finance the campaigns of one of the coalition parties? I suggest we decide tomorrow. I believe that the Minister will propose to his Members to support such a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you. On the proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mag. It has been said that the National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on its question of the Member State, in the context of tomorrow's vote, the National Assembly will decide. Mr Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology will be asked a question by Mr Ljubo Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, other ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Higher Education and Research Development, which was presented to the public debate, has experienced a number of criticisms, a series of comments, mainly by those most Tangled by this law. So I'm talking about the combined performance of the university, research institutes, engineering institutes, student organisations, education and education unions. So all those who are also very carefully reading the draft or thesis, as it is already the power to say, because today we have heard a lot, even by the President of the Government, although it is very difficult to talk about the issues of the bill, which has a precise number of articles which have exactly the text in the articles and which the Ministry just says is to extend the public debate in view of a number of comments that have been made on the content of the proposal of the United Law on Higher Education and Research Development that came from different sides until a resolution is adopted. So, how can it be said on the one hand that, of course, there is no proposal for a law, but at the same time the proposer, the ministry is prolonging the public debate on the proposal for a law until the resolution itself is adopted? Of course, this must also be answered. If we are talking about a bad draft, we also need to answer the question: Why, then, was it necessary to pay off the poor €50,000 to three eminent legal experts to write down the law or thesis? I think that you, Mr Minister, will define exactly what and what content is the power to talk about, even though these eminent lawyers have the power to see that they have actually written down in the legal language the origins of which you proposed. Mr. Minister, since there are many objections to this law in public, I am of course interested: In what way will you resolve the dispute between you or your disagreements and the differences in the proposals as a proposal for the Higher Education and Research and Development Act, as well as universities, students, research institutes, education and education unions and others that have expressed a type of disagreement with the proposal? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u160	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr Member for your question. I'd like to fix you first. I think that in science and science we usually talk about things, that we all think, that the same words are about the draft proposal for a law. So who hasn't been in the public hearing and we've stressed this a number of times. He even had an internal label and was sent to all those who are partners in discussing them internally and then sending us proposals, sitting together and discussing them. In this regard, it should be specifically said that this parallel work, parallel work between the Resolution of the National Higher Education Programme, which has already been sent from the Government and has been coordinated all the time. It was coordinated with all partners for at least a year. However, of course, we were preparing a draft. And after this part was given to the government, i.e. the Resolution of the National Higher Education Programme, when it was given to the Government, we had meetings with all of these partners in relation to this internal material. And these meetings were nine, and I can say after the dates: 18.4. with the University of Novi Gorica, 19.4. with the University of Primorska, 19.4. with the University of Maribor, 20.4. with unions, 24.4. with Koris, 24.4. with education, 25.4. with the University of Ljubljana and 3.5 again with education. So, in all the discussions and explanations of the starting points, we had a good conversation, there was no objection, except when we went to the University of Ljubljana, and they told us, and now we are not talking about it. They didn't say they'd make suggestions or anything they didn't like. They told me, please, we're not talking about this. And then, all of a sudden, they turned the board around. All at once, which, of course, seems a little strange to us. When everyone turned this board around, and because we're used to nature again, and I got, when I was a naturalist before, let's say, in my previous life, when I was doing research, we got a lot of every thesis, we got a human review saying that and that and that's the wrong thing. Of course, we disagree with that and that. Then we sit down, take a look and fix things. I can be right. They can be right. So, in a discussion on your specific issues, how we will do this, with patience and discussion on the basis of the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, on the basis of a declaration then sent by the Rectors and all together. And this declaration -- if you read it exactly -- you'll see that it fits very well with everything they wrote. It is said that the declaration is a very, very good starting point for us and will, together with the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme, together with this draft, be a draft after this discussion. This draft will then be sent to the public debate. And here I think that in some sense it is only necessary to respect certain procedures if we are talking about a draft that is not yet in development and then someone is going to a public debate and then claims everywhere that it is a public debate, it feels like maybe we don't know how to talk in our country. That, I think it's important. Look, we always have every preparation, if you're looking at systemic theory, you have action and you have a reaction. First you have to do something to make that reaction. And from the action to the reaction, it's synthesized. And then there's a better message. Normally, no one has ever claimed that these drafts are perfect or perfect. We were always ready to talk. That is why we also gave before we went to public debate, so before we went to public debate, we talked to all the affected partners, as we also discussed the Resolution on the National Higher Education Programme. So I'll say it again to that question of yours. The answer is patience and based on all these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u162	Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Of course, I hope that your patience will also be heard in the direction of those who have made proposals so far, because a number of large-scale comments that have been made by the Student Organisation have not yet been followed in the text, not in the resolution and not in the law, at least after their statements which I can quote here. The other thing is, we're both naturalists, Mr. Secretary. It would be very good if we were very precise then in terminology. For it is very difficult to understand the interpretation of the President of the Government today and you when we say that there is no law. So there's no marriage. You are talking about the draft being written down, which is an internal draft, which is an internal draft, then it would be good to define what an internal draft and draft is, which will be in the public debate, which you say you are prolonging the public debate. Of course, it would be very good for the Slovenian public to explain exactly what stage this text is at, without the President of the Government and you actually speaking in different terms. Mr Minister, it is very difficult to understand the process so far that, in fact, the public concerned, the key interested public was so far away from the opportunities for participation and that they actually had to organise themselves into a special group from which a declaration was made that they wanted to - that is, the declaration is an expression of the willingness of the signatories to participate in the design of the starting points and the adoption of new higher education research legislation. So, what is the manner of this government to actually the most interested public [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] put in a position to accept such a declaration so that they can become partners in conversations? And, Mr. Minister, I wish you that listening and patience on your part would be greater than it was. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u164	Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u165	Thank you very much. As far as students are concerned, I must say I'm very interested in those instructions. We talked a lot to the students. Like, I heard them right, and they demonstrated they're up against tuition. In fact, the fees are explicitly agreed in this draft that they will be valid and that the state will pay the first and second rates of the Bologna. So, here was a case where students protested something that wasn't even there. So, clearly, even when they were at these meetings, as I have already said, with the students we had two three-hour meetings where we talked about these starting points, they gave their opinions. We have recorded these opinions and will then coordinate them further. So, I have to say, we haven't had any discussions with students, any differences or anything. We've explained our opinions. Each of us has adopted its own opinion, and on this basis we will make better solutions. As for the rest of us, I think we said that. And there's something else you need to say. Each matter begins with the first step. And if someone can, let's say, talk about when someone enters into a procedure, of course, here too - as it was said - it needs to be arranged. Someone who wants to buy an apartment will say he wants to be in the interior. Someone else will say, "I don't want this apartment planned." And the other one will say, "I want to be in the building earlier." Somebody's gonna say, "I don't want to." I want to build a brick. Somebody's gonna say, no, I'm not gonna build a brick, but I want to dig a cop there and so on. In short, it is necessary to agree on where someone should go in and where they usually are, and this is usually all over the world, for the government to prepare something and then talk about it. Now, of course, someone can say, and we'd like to be there before. I mean, it's just a matter of agreement. I think that we can, that we're happy that we've found a common language, we're talking. I've been talking to all the rectors. With all of them, I think there was no problem in continuing this dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be asked a question by Mr Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! In Slovenia there are areas inhabited by high mountain farms. Of course, I will not say anything new if I mention that the conditions for farming in these areas are very difficult, much harder than in the valley. As an example, Koroško and within Koroška Zgornje Mežiško valley, where at altitudes of about 1,300 meters we also have two of the highest lying farms in Slovenia and where mountain farmers face huge problems. In addition to the difficult conditions for farming, some farms are almost forestless. In many cases this is due to historical facts, when, for such or other reasons, the countesses have acquired ownership of the large forest estates that are now owned by the state. In the Mežiška valley there are many mountain farms without a single hectare of forest and farmers who want to manage these farms, because of this fact at the border of survival, and for the country these farmers on the Slovenian edge are also important because of the settlement of the countryside and the preservation of the cultural landscape. In the municipality of Črna, which represents half the territory of the former municipality of Ravne na Koroškem, there are 30 such farms and for these farmers the forest would be a long-term solution. Rehabilitation programmes have been developed for some farms, which seem to indicate that 40 hectares of forest areas could survive these mountain farms as well. I ask the Minister: What are the possibilities for such and these farmers to be confronted by the country or the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia? The endangered farmers themselves see some solutions in this area. Firstly, to obtain from the fund the rental or leasing of parts of forest areas which are now awarded to the forest economy by concession, and also to farmers are willing to measure the compensation to the State, as with the concession fee, this is done by the forest economies. Or another solution: to allow these mountain farmers to purchase state forests or to transfer them free of charge to endangered mountain farmers. Mr. Secretary, I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u168	Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much for this question. Therefore, on the basis of the strategic documents emanating from the initiative of the Slovenian Institute for Forests and the Directorate for Forestry within our Ministry and where a national policy for the management of forests, conservation and development guidelines and conditions for their exploitation or multi-purpose use will be laid down, this chapter will be specifically defined and in the manner in which I quote, "farms with severe farming conditions in the mountainous and mountain world, based on a comprehensive rural development programme, will allow either to carry out works in the state forests, to replace forests due to the surrounding of the land, either to purchase forests under more favourable conditions to the surface that the farm could manage with the work of its members." According to the information I have, both our Directorate and the Institute of Forests for around 30 farms in Koroška have tried, of course taking into account ownership of the legal relations, to start the so-called rehabilitation of farms in a way that these rehabilitation plans have already shown. According to the profession, the most realistic solution is to place a certain area of the forest in concession or in the lease and time and monitoring of the development of the farm, showing whether the final solution is also redemption. The problem is also that forests in this area have been awarded concession to the forest economy by 2016, but according to the information I have, the industry is counting on them to determine, in their discussions with GGs, the areas of forests that would contribute to this area to be regulated and to make the first cases of strengthening economic conditions on specific farms in Koroška. It is also envisaged that this area should also be reviewed for the whole of Slovenia and that cases should be resolved in this way. According to information I also have from the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, a suitable internal regulation in this area should also be prepared. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Environment and Space Minister and Minister of Finance will be asked a question by Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Ministers, Honorable Assembly! My parliamentary issue concerns a subject most likely to be discussed in the future. We're talking about drinking water supply. I am not referring to the growing threat of our groundwater, which is certainly a very serious problem in some parts of Slovenia. I am thinking of the problem of drinking water supply, which is due to the fact that in many, particularly rural areas, no municipal infrastructure is built to allow this. So we are faced with the sad fact that in a time of highly developed technology and logistics, several families in Slovenia live in a very medieval way. It is right to say here that it is not only the responsibility of the congregations but also of the countries. It is therefore essential to resolve this issue of cooperation between the two. I am thinking of co-financing both the construction of municipal infrastructure and the search for potential investors willing to join such projects. When I reviewed the budget line of the Ministry of Environment and Space 1366 - Co-financing of environmental municipal infrastructure, I noticed that 2.88 million euros were earmarked for this year and 2 million and 600 million euros for this year. I have found that these amounts are more than half lower than in 2004 and 2005. At that time, the value of this item was around €6 million. Given that this is a budget item from which public calls draw funds to co-finance the construction of municipal infrastructure, including the construction of water infrastructure, I ask you: Whether there have been any discussions between the ministries leading them or in the Government about the use of budget item 1.3.6.6 for 2007 - They co-finance environmental municipal infrastructures redistribute or add what additional financial resources; and at what level? Secondly, what I am interested in is: Is there an increase in the 2008 budget in the above-mentioned budget line? Is the Ministry of Environment and Space planning to publish any other public call for co-financing of municipal infrastructure projects in 2007? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u173	Very briefly, because surely my colleague Minister Podobnik will go into a broader explanation. Just a few details. As far as 2007 is concerned, I can assure you that the Ministry of Finance has not received an application to increase the allocation of funds to this budget item. This is item 1366. In preparing the 2007 budget, the Minister of Environment and Space, within the limits adopted by the Government, independently planned funds for individual purposes. Nor has an amendment been adopted in Parliament to increase funds on this budget item or for these purposes. The preparation of the 2008 budget changes and the 2009 budget has already begun at the Ministry of Finance. It is important to know that the 2008 budget is already in place and that the macro-economic objectives outlined will have to be adhered to in preparing the budget changes. This would make it very difficult and, above all, very irresponsible to argue that the funds on this budget item would increase. As far as specific information is concerned. The current budget for 2007 under this heading has €2,677,991 and pre-debts amount to €241,000. It follows from the above that the available free spending rights are still EUR 2,436.227. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Allow me to answer the Member's question myself. First of all, I agree with you that drinking water issues are one of those in which both the Government and the local community have special concerns. Climate change, forecasts by some experts, meteorologists, agrometeorologists, hydrologists are such that they speak of the fact that one of the first duties of Slovenian politics is also that it is active here. There will be no misunderstanding; either in this mandate or as a continuation from the previous mandate, some of the biggest water systems in Slovenia are in the project, the construction of the water system of Pomurje, the protection of drinking resources, the water system of the White Land, the holder of the Padež, which will save Kras and the Slovenian Istria, or perhaps some smaller systems in Haloza. These are large systems, which are all possible not from item 1366, which is a very important item, a smaller item for smaller projects of many Slovene municipalities, but with the help of European cohesion funds. And all these projects, which I mentioned earlier, are also partly co-financed from these sources, so that when you went through the budget lines you did not take into account European cohesion funds and the country's share in this. However, I would like to say that this very important item 1.3.6.6, which was very clearly mentioned by my fellow Minister Dr. Bajuk, what is the situation this year, I must draw attention to another burden and duty that I have inherited and I would like to discharge it in full. Indeed, in this year this item is linked to projects which form part of the development programme plan and are the majority of the results of still unrealised decisions following the 2003 call for proposals for the 2004-2006 budget period. So this year we will conclude contracts with beneficiaries, these are local communities, and then we will continue to issue administrative decisions as a result of the decision of the administrative court. 29 Slovene municipalities are waiting for this relatively small sum from this item 1.3.6.6. On your question about the application for redeployment - it is understandable that as a minister of the environment and space I simply do not see the source that from my own resources, my own ministry would find an additional resource to redistribute it to this item 1.3.6.6. Next year, Mr Minister, Dr. Bajuk, already knows when we will be preparing proposals perhaps to supplement the budget, and, above all, for 2009, I certainly plan to propose that this item be strengthened a little bit. Colleagues working in this area estimate that by 2014, at least €2.5 million in this item 1.3.6.6. would need to enter the public budget, of course on the basis of a call for tender, as a partner to the Slovenian municipalities, if we consider how the new province will function in order to go and implement all programmes linked to the operational supply programme of the drinking water population. I also support each Slovenian family to have quality drinking water as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Han, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I can be satisfied with the answers. On purpose, I have asked this question to both ministers, because most of the time it is done by ministers from other departments then to the Ministry of Finance not to provide additional financial resources; but on all these issues that have been raised today, which are as important for citizens and citizens as possible, I would say that this is a matter of drinking water supply and that this is a relatively small resource. And with these little resources, we'd be saving, I'll say, small congregations, with small plumbing projects. 210 municipalities, most of which are small municipalities, and believe me, the mayors, where we work mainly in small municipalities with this communal infrastructure, water infrastructure, roads and so on. That's just what people are interested in. And to get this supply of drinking water, some of the normal ones, we need our own resources and also the goodwill of the state. If we put about two million euros in cash here, I think some projects could end up in small congregations. I would not like to go into the demagogic waters, but one Patria less or more, for these matters, or the organization of some "these" and so on, it seems to me that it is less important than the supply of drinking water in the Republic of Slovenia. I also agree with this that it is necessary to settle matters in return, but I think that these are such small funds that if we put two million more together, even these small congregations would have no problems. For now, I thank you for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Environment and Space Minister will be asked a question by Mr Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister! In Primorska, we have an ecological threat from the Kemiplas factory and the gas terminals in Bertok, and it has already been announced for the first company that due to technological inadequacy, we have not yet closed it. And what upsets us most now is that you actually want to support the government's intention to build gas terminals and a pan-European pipeline. Dear Minister, I ask you and thus the Slovenian Government: Where is the responsibility, national interest and will to say no to Europe? Why am I saying this? Mr Romano Prodi said at the European Parliament that it is high time for Europe to be defined by Italy's energy strategy. Of course, if we listen to Mr Illy, who says that this is necessary, this project, for the market environment and for the entire Furlania-Julia landscape, at the same time comments that he will be disturbed by the visibility of the viaduct when building the railway line, it is pointless that the Slovenian government is silent. It is powerful because it does not know how to say a decisive "no", and it also detracts from Croatia's desire to build a so-called pan-European pipeline connection, which would also significantly distort the Slovenian environment. I ask you, Minister: What is the concern for the general security of citizens and citizens? For we know that if this gas terminal actually comes to life in this district, there is a possibility of a terrorist attack, and we have to count on it; that the Slovenian sea is threatened by the warming of the water needed to cool the gas; that tourism is actually at a zero point today, we know because we are mostly a transit country, and it will be even worse when we have this disaster piled up in this place twice. And: Where is the interest that the Government should defend - the majority interest that is expressed by a decisive "no" to such projects? Of course, I am also disturbed by the fact that you have one opinion, I am speaking for the Pan-European pipeline, the Minister of Economy of the other opinion. Is the government even harmonised? Do they take into account your professional position, because I am aware of the view that you have reacted negatively or your ministry, while the Ministry of Economic Affairs has demanded that this be realized? Of course, if this is true, then you must tell the Slovenian public here that we have only the administrative procedure to which we have left. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u180	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. First of all, I would like to reiterate the position which relates to the question referred to me at the previous meeting on the previous questions sent by one of our fellow Members. Indeed, it is a question of the so-called Pan-European pipeline, which would "passenger" in the work of the Slovenian territory. There I made it clear and I repeat the position taken by the Government when it supported the political declaration on this project. In fact, we insist that no such document can bind governments or the implementation of such a project if, from the outset, it does not take into account very strict environmental legislation, which is now Slovenian and European environmental legislation. So here, on this segment, the government is aligned and speaking with one voice. If this project were to be realized, it would be in that part and if it would "passage" if it was proposed to "passage" the Slovenian territory - it would go through very complicated and hard Slovenian legislation in the field of environmental and spatial protection. That's what I guarantee you. As for the second part of your question, I must tell you that I do not know as Minister of Environment and Space, as you said, the Government intends to build a gas terminal in the Slovenian part or the Slovenian sea, in the Bay of Koper or near the Bay of Koper. I don't know that kind of attitude. All I can tell you is that there is a procedure in our ministry to prepare a state-owned map for the port of Cyprus. That's right. The gas terminal for the processing or gasification or liquefaction of gas is not planned in the Kore port. The gas terminal for gas processing is neither specified in the programme for the preparation of this national site plan nor is it planned in the conceptual solutions that are still in manufacture and which have also been adopted in the context of the international public tender to obtain comprehensive urban protection of the port of Cyprus. Since the very beginning of the preparation of this national site plan, and this is such a first integrated national location plan, with regard to the planning of a gas terminal for gas processing in the area of the port of Cyprus, it has not been expressed in the initiative itself to draw up such a plan by the Ministry of Transport, nor in the guidelines for the preparation of a national site plan prepared by colleagues at the Ministry of Economy in this regard. This is about the procedure itself. However, as regards the situation regarding the establishment of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, I can assure you that, as Minister, I fully follow the positions and decisions of the Government, which have been adopted in this regard on the basis of the European directives and other international ones, I would say legal environmental procedures, where Slovenia has been very actively involved in this process. I am also in contact with the Italian Minister for Environment and Space. Our professional services are also in contact with the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of the Republic of Italy. There have been quite a few meetings on this subject over the last period. It is known that the Government has adopted a unequivocal position in which it has found that both terminals have harmful consequences in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and we have also transmitted this to the Republic of Italy and also to the competent services of the European Union. A special inter-ministerial working group coordinating this issue was also active in the preparation of a memorandum signed in Brussels on 14 May this year, signed by both Foreign Ministers of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Italy. This working group has had, I think, more than 10 meetings and has already prepared the fifth working report for the Government, which we will also consider briefly. Moreover, next week there is an extraordinary meeting for the environment and a space where we will go very thoroughly through all the procedures related to these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u183	Thank you very much. With all due respect, Mr Minister, I believe that you are trying to take care of environmental policy and that you are concerned about environmental policy in the Republic of Slovenia. That's what I believe you're genuinely working on. However, I ask you very strongly: Why did the Republic of Slovenia not require a cross-border environmental study? We know that in such cases it is necessary to request this and why the Republic of Slovenia, therefore why the Ministry, why did the President of the Government not react to such a harsh claim, the harsh claim and the request of Mr Prodi to Europe after settling this issue? So, it is not only the Cyprus port of the Slovenian sea, from Kopra to Trieste you can swim. And that water that warmed up in the Gulf of Markets would also be warm in the port of copier. And that would mean destroying all the sensitive marine flora that is unique there today. You know that. You've been warned by environmentalists. And the fact is that Slovenia did not respond with a protest note, nor did it want to object to the neighbours of Italy who imposed it - just as Croats did to us a schoolyard and impose a border point, even the Italians impose this gas terminal. So, why didn't you respond? Why we do not have a firm position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which would be in line with the environment, with the expertise and demand of the people who live there. You haven't done that yet, Your Honor. When are you going to do that?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u184	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to clarify that the Republic of Slovenia, in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and on its behalf the Ministry of Environment and Space, has made full use of the existing provisions of the European directives on the assessment of cross-border environmental impacts, both in the plans and in the individual projects relating to the energy facility. And the Republic of Slovenia, on its behalf, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has adopted a clear and clear position that two terminals have harmful effects, thus having proven cross-border impacts. She informed the competent Italian authorities of this documentation - I am speaking, of course, of the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of the Republic of Italy - and informed the European Commission accordingly. This has also led to the process of identifying cross-border environmental impact assessments. At the same time, it was also active in the preparation of the special memorandum I mentioned earlier, and one of the contents of this memorandum is how we will work together in the environmental segments. I would also like to add that the Republic of Slovenia wishes to work in the belief that the Republic of Italy will fully respect European environmental law and that it will also take full account of our procedures in the spirit of friendly cooperation and in its work and decisions in this case also take into account the conclusions of the Slovenian Government, and that the operational meetings and meetings are held at different levels: at the level of the Directors-General of Environmental Directorates, at the level of the State Secretaries, I would also like to mention that we are also the Presidents of the Barcelona Convention - one of the elements of the Barcelona Convention is also a special agreement that the Northern Adriatic will be declared as an area particularly sensitive to the environment - on the arguments that speak against the construction of such terminals - you have already spoken of. And this agreement, which was signed between these countries: the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Italy and the Republic of Croatia, gives us an additional argument that we are simply going along the route that, in the context of the procedures led by the Italian Government's Ministry of Environment in this case, we simply achieve that, through studies, with concrete calculations and procedures, we are proving that there are negative cross-border impacts on the environment, which are an additional argument that these gas terminals are not being built in the Gulf. This is a position adopted by Slovenia and on its behalf by the Government and forwarded by the Italian parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u187	I've got a procedural. Thank you so much for saying that. I want to believe all these words, but doubts remain. I propose that, if it is so that you will probably not defend yourself that there is a widespread debate in this National Assembly about the adoption by the National Assembly of a declaration on what the Slovenian Government wants, what Slovenia wants, and that it also made clear to Italy and Croatia about the Pan-European pipeline. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this very hot, very hot topic, which is environmentally and protectively controversial for the Republic of Slovenia, be discussed in an extensive debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u188	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Srečko Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Mr Minister for Education and Sport will ask Mr Aleš Gulič a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u189	Mr President! The distinguished ministers, as well as the absent ministers, particularly Mr Andrej, listener of Vala 202, who is so obviously embarrassed that he is a minister and has a beautiful Slovenian name, that with his secrets he will certainly go into history - or that historians will erase it. Well, that's actually the core of the question I'm asking Minister Dr. Beast about what's going on with history or what's going on with it. Let's say we look at the questions on the national knowledge tests this year. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister, how do you estimate the forecast statement for the 18th mission in history, which says: "In 1941, the propaganda OF among Slovenians has seen a white guard, although the units of the voluntary anti-communist militia have not yet been anywhere." Do you think, Mr. Minister, that reading is sufficient to meet the standards of impartially referring a student to the answer, or do you think that it is suggestive, tending? The same question was provided with an illustration showing, of course, Slovenian, a partisan with a hat on his head and an ax in his hand waving against a Nazi and a fascist, and in his back a knife belogardist. Question B then sends the students a tour of the above illustration, asking them to consider who the opponents OF might be associated with. So how do you as a historian, an expert, as well as a passionate historical lover answer that question? I would like to know your answer, as well as: How do you assess such questions? In general, how do you assess these issues in national trials? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u190	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u191	Mr President, honourable Members, the missing Members! Thank you so much for asking me that question. The question was very short on how I assess the issues in this year's NPAs. I didn't know exactly what you meant, I didn't even know the questions, so I got these questions today. Indeed, the 18th task in the national test of knowledge was as you presented it. I would like to avoid an assessment because it is not even my direct task to assess or evaluate the questions raised by these Commissions. Perhaps you could look at the same question differently than you. Just the expression BG, the white guard, is disputed and ideologically loaded, and perhaps you could also find on the sketch you are talking about, really suggestive of this issue. Rather, the period to which this issue relates is highly controversial and will probably never be completely avoided by such or other interpretations. What I would like is that the questions are clear, that they are not suggestive, that they are those who are actually asking or trying to focus on what is important in Slovenian national history. Of course, it is not just national history in this test of knowledge, which is external to it, as you know, that we changed character two years ago and gave it some kind of validity that goes with it. If you remember, there was a law in force that put national tests of knowledge extremely high. Whoever didn't do this test didn't do primary school. Even so, this law was brought into existence. We later restricted his role; however, the national trials we are conducting today play an important role in particular in seeing the standards of knowledge not only in different regions and schools, but also in differences in individual subjects. In short, what I should say is that I would like to avoid a concrete assessment, a political assessment, for example, of this issue, and I would like experts to have a much happier time in the future in shaping questions from history.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u193	I thank the Minister for this part of the answer. Of course, I'll still have a little spin. I believe that it is difficult to define, but the policy is about political issues, even when it comes to national history, but it must decide. In fact, the correct answer to this 18b question should be 'we could connect with the invaders, fascists, Nazis, Germans, Italians, Hitler, Mussolini'. But the problem is in this condition "you could" as if this history were virtual, I mean, it's like it hasn't happened yet. This history has happened! So the answer is not possible to "can't" because then it implies the thought that they didn't, but they could; they did. So I ask you this question: Why are they so relaxed? Why do they somehow force the idea that something didn't happen if it happened? In fact, history, you know, there are many nations after II. World War II somehow avoided. The Germans did this by keeping quiet about their history, and the Italians then redecorated it in some way. What's going on in Slovenia right now? Apparently, it's just that there's some kind of open space going on. Historians in primary schools, in secondary schools, do not go beyond World War II in Europe. And they've been leaving the whole space since 1945 until now. This empty space, of course, can then be filled with something else. Is that the plan, or is that the case, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u194	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u195	Despite the fact that we can have different points of view and different grades in World War II, you are absolutely right when you say that curricula, especially in high school, do not last long enough and actually end up in the 1950s; the graduation catalogue goes a little longer, but graduates still do not have the opportunity to answer, say, at some point in national history. Simply, the historical commissions did not find the courage and will to complete Slovenian history, studying Slovenian history, for example, with its superiority. Of course, I hope this happens, they're getting ready now, they're changing graduation catalogues, they're writing materials for graduation. History now goes back to being a member of the European Union and so on, but historians have long held that there is too little historical distance for this history to be taught, which is "nonsens". But the fact is that every nation and every generation really changes the evaluation of the past, not radically, of course, but the new historical facts are coming, the new archives are opening. There are more behaviors about the past and it is simply not possible to be completely static - no science, nor history. If there is any new knowledge, it can be a political and ideological problem, and some are not prepared to accept some of the newly established historical facts. Here I see the reason that history has not been taught openly enough and that learning plans and graduation catalogues have not reached beyond their reach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy will be asked a question by Mr Rudolf Moge. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleague and colleague, distinguished minister Dr. Jagar, nice greeting. Since the adoption of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, we especially expected Members coming from less developed parts of Slovenia to do so. We were expecting a miracle, three years after the appointment of a new government, and I have no feeling that the provisions we had in law would be fully implemented. The whole thing is based on the simple fact that, in addition to territorial divisions, the councils of different regions, either as development or cohesion regions, should also be those that co-form policy at the level of coherent regional development. Thus, you have long ago in the adopted law also specified in Article 7 exactly what a cohesion region is, what is the cohesion development council of the region, that this cohesion development council of the region is taking decisions on the preparation and implementation of the EU programme at the level of the cohesion region and that the government determines how the cohesion region world works. It must also be said that we have been quite successful in drawing on funds. For example, if we take the year 2005, the funds received from the EU structural policy budget amounted to €35 million; the funds received from the EU budget, €28 million from the European Regional Development Fund; the funds received from the EU cohesion policy budget was €7 million 699 000 and could be listed below. The funds in 2006 were even higher, which is to be welcomed. Mr Minister, since we have never spoken in the National Assembly and I have not seen much information in the public at all about the world of the cohesion region and its functioning, I ask you: What are the themes that the development council of the cohesion region deals with, and what decisions has this cohesion council taken in the implementation of the European Union programme? Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u198	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good greetings, honourable Members, and those who are still present! With regard to the new law on coherent regional development and administrative structures, which Slovenia has at the level of statistical regions, we have two levels, as you have already said, at the level of Plus 2 cohesion region, at the level of Plus 3 at the moment of statistical development region, these are 12. With regard to the effects of the coherent regional development law, we have taken a significant step forward in this mandate at the level of statistical development regions because we have significantly increased the volume of direct incentives going through structures at this level. Indeed, there are development councils at this level throughout this region, and all these structures remain in the region. And, say, the volume of funds at this level has increased by about ten times over the next period compared to 2004. Much of this at this level in the next financial perspective comes directly from the Structural Funds, i.e. from these European funds, although of course these are our funds. As far as cohesion regions are concerned, Slovenia is still one cohesion region in the next financial perspective, but it is true that Slovenia is already divided into two cohesion regions, about the first, i.e. the eastern, 60% of the Slovenian population, the second, western, approximately 40% of the Slovenian territory. And if we look from a development perspective, then we can see that the development problems in the eastern region are significantly greater. If we look at the statistics for 2004 on GDP per capita by purchasing power, the Eastern region reaches 69.1% of the EU's region's average development 27%, and in this year this volume of resources is 99.9%. So, statistics say that developmental problems in the eastern part are significantly greater. However, during this mandate period, according to this financial perspective, the outcome of the negotiations of the whole of Slovenia is still treated as one cohesion region in terms of financial resources. The territorial breakdown at NUS 2, i.e. at the level of cohesion regions, will enter into force from 1.1.2008, after the transitional period required for the regulation of statistical records. So at this point - this is accepted, but it has not yet entered into force, because we know that it is a one-year delay since the time of reception. At that time, the policy is also being implemented in terms of convergence, competition within cohesion regions at national level, that is through the country and later through the cohesion region, that is, after 2013. Therefore, the territorial division of Slovenia in the two cohesion regions, which was published in the Official Journal of the EU in February this year, will affect the implementation of cohesion policy in Slovenia only after 2013. As far as administrative structures are concerned, what you are talking about means that administrative structures at the level of cohesion regions do not yet exist at this time. Therefore, we do not yet have these cohesion councils, because we are the whole of Slovenia as a single cohesion region, and they are envisaged to be gradually established in the current programming period in order to be able to take over the management of the Structural Funds of the European Union after 2013, and then this will be important. Because, depending on the possible reform of the cohesion policy of the European Union and the level of economic development at the time, both cohesion regions will also be eligible after 2014, but to different stages of development aid. For the most part, Eastern Slovenia can still count on access to the Structural Funds under the most favourable conditions, while Western Slovenia can still count on access to the Structural Funds under the most favourable conditions, while Western Slovenia is one of the forms of the transitional arrangement. Therefore, cohesion regions with all structures will not enter into use until 2013 and until then, according to the documents already adopted, Slovenia is still in this segment or is leading policy on this segment as one cohesion region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u200	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister Jagar. I must say that you have disappointed me terribly because you have not answered my question about the cohesion world at all, unless I understand correctly, because you did not say that the cohesion world is not working at all, and that it does not exist at all. From this place, I must say that this thing of force, I regret force. If it is legally based to establish that you are obliged to establish these things, and if you think that cohesion is a thing that the Government can do on its own without having the system that we set up in the Law on the Promotion of Harmonized Regional Development, then we are playing like cats with a mouse. That's not what happened. The things you've been telling us, I have them here, we've talked about them many times. 26 October 2005 - one cohesion region, then 10.2.2007 two cohesion regions. We, by these documents of Europe in general, with a regulation on standard classifications of territorial units, which is intended to support development, professional planning and measuring the effects of policy, socio-economic analysis, improvement, information - The government does not have and does not intend to do so, even though we will have two cohesion regions. It says here who is establishing and what these regions would do! If this, Minister, you do not intend to do and you do not intend to answer in writing soon what the Government thinks to do with this, then I will start as a member of the opposition a certain activity against the Government. For it seems to me that the failure to comply with what is in marriage leads to the fact that the Government is yet to centralize the Republic of Slovenia. I expect from you, as one of the younger ministers, at least after your internship, that you will arrange what is written in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u202	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u203	Thank you for saying that again. Maybe I'd like to explain these things one more time. As regards the existing financial perspective, Slovenia has negotiated these funds as a single, one cohesion region. In this respect, all the development documents, both the national strategic reference framework and the operational programmes, the three main ones, were also prepared, and these were not only accepted by the Government, but also presented in the National Assembly at the relevant Committee on European Affairs. However, as regards preparations for the next financial period, i.e. the enforcement of cohesion regions, which will in fact only come into force from 1.1.2008, will not apply during this mandate period, but only after 2013, but will, of course, be subject to appropriate administrative structures in accordance with the law drawn up at that time. Thus, these administrative structures will also apply to the next financial perspective as regards the preparation of relevant documents. We may not be able to get ahead of time, or we cannot get ahead of ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mogue, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u205	Mr Vice-President, I am making a procedural proposal to hold a general debate in the National Assembly because this is one of the basic things we should have resolved if we really want to help reduce this difference in the regional development of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that the cohesion region's world is the body that should still be on track to ensure that these funds are used rationally and that these differences are reduced. However, I cannot agree with this, the Minister will now, to the extent that he succeeds in this land legislation, if he has the development regions, take these things into account and, on the basis of this development region, will indeed perform this function, as described in this law, which we are now talking about. However, I find it completely unacceptable that this existing financial perspective prohibits us from doing anything and does not say anything about us being unable to establish two cohesion regions. We've got two, we've got statistics. So we have the territory, the "empty boxes" for which we collect data, this huge country costs, but we don't have the authorities or the authority that would be on this territory and over the resources of this country, and make certain strategic decisions. It seems to me that, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is totally unacceptable for the Government and I would ask you for the good of the Republic of Slovenia, for which you ministers have sworn here to do what is written in the law, and you are also trying to make a recovery into the life of cohesion and the world that we will only get to the point that these differences between some Prekmurje or possibly between Gorica, coastal karst or central Slovenia will only begin to diminish. I would ask you nicely, it's been enough for a few years to have "empty boxes", this is the statistical regions from which we sent data to Brussels to the Bureau of Statistics to demonstrate our development, to design it now, is a good thing. Let us also design cohesion regions and give this cohesion a place that goes also in other EU countries. Because there, if they have a cohesion region, they also have a body that cares about it, and we cannot have a cohesion region written down in law, and our cohesion region will be just an empty box for which statistics will only collect certain data, send them to the EU, and on the basis of these data, we can also "consult" European funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u206	Are you suggesting that the council is considering this?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u207	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u208	That was your suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u210	On the proposal by Mr Mojet to hold a debate at the next meeting on his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat, who will ask a question from the Member of the Minister for Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, honourable Members! In your public appearances and in meetings with the professional public, Mr Minister, you often stress the deregulation and autonomy that enter the school space. In order to provide them, you are also predicting the necessary legal changes. You are transferring more and more powers of decision-making to founders, i.e. local communities when it comes to primary schools and kindergartens, and to regional levels, there will also be a good part of the obligations associated with secondary and higher or higher vocational schools. However, some events this year point out that the public, and in particular parents, expect the active role of the Ministry of Education and Sport, such as the findings of the contamination of sandbags or the inadequate removal of the asbestos roof from the dormitory primary school, with the lack of school environment and school routes. In the first case, the Ministry of Education and Sport informed the public that it would provide the means to replace the sink, but the other two, however, asked how to remove other roofs and convince local communities to decide on these interventions. Despite the fact that the individual supervisory tasks are to be carried out by a competent inspection, the Ministry of Education and Sport is likely to be responsible for an integrated picture of the situation. Especially when the local community decides to co-finance a new educational institution as a priority, even though the existing ones do not meet sanitary standards. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, What are the options for influencing local community decisions on investment investments in educational institutions under the current legislation of the Ministry of Education and Sport? How can the Ministry prevent decisions that are inconsistent with the principles of good governance and how can it stop investments in new educational institutions, although in order to ensure a safe and healthy working and learning environment we should first take care of urgent investments or investment maintenance in existing public education institutions? I thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u212	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Madam Member, thank you for the question that has been raised slightly more broadly than has been announced, but I will try not to read it, but to answer it just like that. You probably do not expect the Ministry to be responsible for the correct technical removal of ecologically controversial asbestos, cement roofs from certain primary schools. Others are responsible for this, and the fact is that in the past year alone we replaced them with 30,000 square metres of such roofs of asbestos roofs. And I think that's a pretty good result, with some kind of intervention investment action. We are aware of the danger of asbestos and will continue to do so in the future. This means that, in particular, in the field of investment maintenance and equipment, the State has saved some resources, despite efforts, as you yourself have found, to decentralise and deregulation in this area. With the province's legislation package, this decentralisation will be even greater, especially in the field of secondary education, where the provinces will be given some extraordinary powers. However, in this area, as in primary education, the state will save some possibilities for influencing the investment policy of the founders. As you know, the Law on Community Financing very clearly defines the various roles played by different actors throughout the investment cycle. It is the founders, these are the municipalities for kindergartens and primary schools, and for the time being the state; the investor is linked to the establishment function, so the main investor is usually the local community and the state plays the role of the co-investor. What effect can the state have? At least two mechanisms exist: the first is definitely this financial impact, which is decided by the State on the basis of the rules and, of course, by the law which requires it; and the second by the regulations. Here is the policy on normative and minimum technical conditions for the construction of primary schools and our investment service strictly adheres to certain rules and more or less municipalities also take them into account as investors. At times, however, we also need to listen to the wishes of local communities when they want to increase the gym, school, or space with superstandards. In this case, the state co-finances only the necessary share, which is calculated according to our standards, and all superstandard items are co-financed by the municipality. It is true, however, that in recent years they have been duly warned by the founders that the problem is later also with maintenance, so that some local communities have problems with maintenance due to excessive desires and interests at the outset. As far as the ecological dimension is concerned, I can say that in the future, in the next calls, we will give a great deal of emphasis in particular to energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly construction. We are already working here in this area, and we also want to edit those objects that will be adapted in this direction. So not only do we want to build on new ones, we want to rebuild, especially where it is possible, where old and static buildings are, to do so. Those schools that were built cheap, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] quickly, this is in particular from a period of rapid construction in the 1970s from so-called self-supply, which is actually slightly weaker, and more or less, we need to replace them with new constructions. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u215	Dear Mr. Secretary. Certainly you do not attribute to me the role of local communities in deciding which schools parents want to send their children to. Also, the fact that various inspections have to take over their part of the responsibility is quite clear to me. At the same time, we were talking about sandstone sinks. Only, since that first decision to change the sink in indignant cases, until the last warning that children live in a different contaminated environment and that in some environments, because of the situation that they are - I mean Koroška - is not expected to avoid the harmful effects of the environment, but to what I have asked you, is quite a few steps. This is because we have not touched at all on the fact that the Ministry of Education and Sport is probably also responsible for the whole area of sport, and we have not talked about mops in sports facilities, which are often close to those with children's kindergartens. This is one part of the problem for me - another part. But what I am particularly interested in is how to prevent the local community from voting its budget decree with the threat that some councillors, specifically SDS councillors, will not support the adoption of the budget unless there is in the budget of the represented funds for the construction of a new kindergarten from [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] private resources plus this. [[...]] This is a question that has opened up a whole new perspective on the role of the Ministry of Education and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u217	This supplement was a bit specific. See, municipalities, local communities have so far proved to be very good masters with primary and preschool spaces. More or less they ruled much better than the country before, and it is difficult already to blame the local authorities in advance for drawing reckless and unwise moves and actions that are not going in the direction of common good. I don't know what case you're talking about, but I don't think so far there have been any major problems in the management of preschool space, except in one congregation, where things are now being rectified. Nor is it entirely fair to now expose the saints of one party and, on the basis of them, to bring about some systemic problems in the management of this space in the future. I think that the country is not a better host than the local communities, and I am even sure that the provinces will manage much better with a private school space than the state can. As far as the sink is concerned. When the matter broke out, we took all the measures. The mushka has been replaced, reviewed before; I do not have specific numbers because you did not ask them in the question you asked. However, I can then give you the exact details and we will support the issue in writing with the exact figures. But you can't tell us not to worry, say, about this kind of prevention or even curate. We've had a lot of attention -- let's say, as I mentioned earlier, removing asbestos critiques. We also reacted relatively quickly in the sink. I hope that other competent services, which are not within the Ministry of Education and Sport, have done the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Procedural question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u219	For the first time, I will take the opportunity to propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it should hold a debate on the reply of Minister Zvero to my question. The reason for that is something. I think that the Ministry of Education and Sport should at least carry out its notification function when it comes to certain things related to ensuring a healthy environment when there are situations of excellence. So much for the sink, and I didn't really ask for the data, and I didn't intend to do that either. Another issue related to the removal of asbestos criticism is that I do not deny the efforts and incentives, but it is what parents and the environment in which this happened that is particularly disturbing. It is a matter of information and coordination in times of crisis. And now I come to the main point, which is why I propose a debate. Major changes in school legislation are forecast. With regard to the relationship between public and private, Minister Beast announced that there would be no more than 10% of private education or private education with concessions. And I'm saying that you have no solid evidence that this will be true. I would like to know that in this debate we would come up with an answer to this question, and no particular evil has driven me to ask you this question. I have shown only one example before the law is in force or the amendments will be adopted. It is the Medvoda municipality, and Medvod has adopted a decree to allocate priority funds from the public budget for the construction of private kindergartens, while at the same time having decrees of inspection services on inadequate sanitation in public kindergartens. And that's what upsets me, which worries me: Is there any mechanism to protect this public interest in such cases? Because your assurances were that investment and investment maintenance in the private sphere would not be intended to be just 100% of the funding of the programme, but not for investments. However, I would like to remind you that such decisions are already changing and that there are no guarantees of what extent these things are supposed to have. I can't even imagine how that's gonna go. But if we follow the voice of the people, then we can count [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that this percentage will be significantly higher [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-28-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for the answers given. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before that, I must say this: the proposal of the Ambassador of Magi. They believe that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on its parliamentary issue, and the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. I am adjourning the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
