ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin with the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed and I inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Roberto Battelli, Miran Jerič, Ljubo Germič and Mojca Kucler Dolinar. And we're moving on to 4. Period of the day - secondly, a proposal for a law on spatial planning. I'd like to inform you that we have 5 hours and 10 minutes for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u2	Good morning! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. In this introduction, allow me to summarize briefly some of the points of the proposed law, particularly those which have been particularly exposed in the context of the last reading of the draft law in both the professional circles and in the process of adopting this law in the National Assembly and the Council of State. In doing so, I would like to say that the Ministry-led experts have participated in the preparation of the amendments to the individual articles of the proposed law to be dealt with at this meeting of the National Assembly, and I am sure that they will also contribute to better solutions and greater clarity of individual legislative provisions. Here I would also like to thank all those who have helped us in this hard work, especially the individual parliamentary groups, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and, in particular, the professional services of the Home Environment and Space Committee. Members and Members, I am convinced that the common objective of all of us is that the Republic of Slovenia, with the law we are considering, will be modern, with European law, a coherent law that will allow both municipalities and the country, as well as regions or landscapes, to draw up, within a reasonable time frame and within acceptable means, such spatial documents, which will clearly and unequivocally determine what can and cannot be built on a given land. Because only a clear spatial plan gives the investor the necessary security in planning his investment intent. It should then be pointed out that the law itself does not yet provide good spatial decisions and quality spatial documents. It is therefore also necessary to implement it properly in practice, which depends in particular on the authors of these spatial acts, namely the competent professional services, municipalities and countries and, to the greatest extent, on the producers of spatial documents, that is, professionally qualified spatial planners. In doing so, it should be stressed that spatial planning, as set out in the proposal for this law, is an interdisciplinary activity carried out by experts of different profiles, architects, landscape architects, geography and so on. Each of them in the work for which he is expertly qualified. It is also up to them to the greatest extent to regulate the Slovenian space, especially our cities and settlements. In doing so, I would like to refer directly to some of the concerns that have been followed by the drafting of the proposed law and have also been raised in the debates in the National Assembly, which were particularly intrusive or stressed by the profession of landscape architects. Their opinion is that the law mainly regulates the area of architectural and urban planning and focuses only on settlements and building space, but does not adequately address the so-called open space or landscape, which does not follow the guidelines of the international conventions on landscapes. I have to oppose that opinion because the law provides that all space, with spatial acts of the municipalities, is to be treated in a comprehensive manner and that, on the basis of expert analyses and in accordance with the identity and typology of the premises, is to be formed into the units of space regulation under which spatial regimes are to be established. The landscape is included as an important element of space in spatial planning under these regulatory units covering the entire municipality. Of course, in the framework of this work, in addition to other professions, experts in the landscape-architectural profession are also involved. In particular, I would point out that spatial planning is in the public interest. Since this has also been frequently raised in the debates at the National Assembly, the proposed amendments to be considered at today's meeting also propose to supplement one of the articles of the Act with such an explicit provision. This fact is that spatial planning is in the public interest, although it is already based on a number of provisions of the law, it is only right that this is specifically stated in the law, since the spatial regimes provided for by spatial acts restrict the owners in their possession of their property or even interfere with property relations because of the implementation of the planned arrangements. We are solving the content problems of the current ZUREPA in the bill by focusing spatial planning on a comprehensive solution and the uniformity of spatial acts. For example, at national level, spatial planning in the framework of spatial acts under ZUREP 1 has led to the conduct of procedures for the preparation of national location plans for each spatial arrangement, which has resulted in a large number of long-term procedures, which have also been repeatedly uncoordinated. The proposed law will, however, provide that, within the framework of the State Spatial Plans, several spatial arrangements of State importance can be planned at the same time in a specific area, ensuring their comprehensive treatment, as well as mutual coordination and public treatment under one single procedure. At the national level, spatial arrangements will be designed to be so precise that the arrangements will be properly placed in the space and more detailed planning will be left to the investor as part of the preparation of the project documentation. And this is also one of the major differences from the current national location plans, which, due to their similarity, have virtually already the nature of projects. In municipal spatial planning, as stipulated by the proposed law, we wanted to motivate the municipalities to plan their space in a comprehensive manner and thus plan their long-term development. Only comprehensive planning means a break with too much current practice when urbanism follows ownership and when an official makes a discretionary decision on what and where it can be built. At municipal level, the new law provides for a single mandatory spatial act, referred to as the Municipal Spatial Plan, which will be prepared and adopted as a single document, which will be both a strategic and an implementing spatial act and a basis for the preparation of projects to obtain a building permit. There is no duplication of procedures for the adoption of municipal spatial acts. The municipalities can fully arrange their premises in the Municipal Spatial Plan. However, detailed spatial plans shall be optional and shall be prepared only if the municipality so decides. If the municipality has clear projects at the time of the first adoption of the municipal spatial plan, it will be able to arrange all of this in the Municipal Spatial Plan and then the preparation of detailed spatial plans in such cases will not be necessary. However, the definition of spatial acts of municipalities at the implementing level is to be introduced or achieved by introducing a new instrument, an urban plan. It is a plan with traditional content known by most comparable European countries and we have already had it with us in the past. With an urban plan, we will plan spatial development or comprehensive reconstruction in cities and settlements of urban character, or in settlements where more development is envisaged. The best spatial solutions will be obtained with the help of a number of alternative solutions, including public competitions, which, in our view, are a good way to obtain the best solutions in the settlements. With regard to the comments made on future regional or provincial planning at the time of the drafting of this law, I must point out that the proposed law has unfortunately not been able to deal with this, since, despite the fact that the legislation in the area of the provinces is already being intensively prepared, such regulation is not yet possible. Regional planning will only be able to be properly regulated when the provinces are institutionalised and all their powers in this area will be determined. To this end, in order to facilitate the implementation of the important development projects envisaged by the regional development programmes, we have foreseen the preparation of specific regional spatial plans. The procedures for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment in this law are specifically regulated by including them in the preparation of spatial plans as a solution to the sui generis, while fully taking over the solutions that are the subject of the European Environmental Protection Act and rationalising them in the work where possible. At this point, I would like to stress in particular that the specific revision of the environmental report under this bill is no longer envisaged, which has been discussed many times, especially in the working bodies of the National Assembly. The revision of the environmental report will be provided by the Ministry of Environment and Space alone, in order to rationalise the work and reduce the costs of municipalities, within the process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment. With this we have imposed on ourselves at the Ministry, we acknowledge this, a great task and responsibility, but I am sure that we will be able to manage it with good organisation. The procedures for the preparation of spatial acts at all levels with the new law are substantially reduced by the fact that the authors of these acts will no longer be left to themselves, but will be the coordinator of all procedures of our ministry, which will also assume responsibility for the success of the spatial planning reform. We have also reduced the deadlines relating to the guidelines and opinions of the space regulators, which will also have to be followed consistently. The bill also excludes the veto of the individual ministry on a proposal for a municipal spatial plan, as it provides that the government can confirm the municipal plan even if it does not comply with the guidelines of the ministries. However, the Minister of Space is forced to declare within 75 days whether the plan approves or proposes this in a decision by the Government. The Minister's silence means confirmation of the plan. The bill also sets out a new area for the equipping of buildings and a municipal contribution. This was now largely left to the law. However, some of the solutions to this topic are to be submitted individually. Members and Members of Parliament are asked to confirm the amendments proposed after today's debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u3	Thank you, Minister, for further explanation. However, in the framework of the parliamentary procedure, the draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a working body by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Rudolf Petan, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Environment and Space carried out a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me remind you that a general debate was also held at the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly on the draft law. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, representatives of the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated. Written opinions and comments were forwarded to the Law and Law Service of the National Assembly, the Commission of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government, the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the Association of Landscape Architects of Slovenia and the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia. In its opinion, the legislature notes that the law in force regulates this area, in their view, either incomplete or inadequate, so that these shortcomings should be partially remedied by the proposed law and in part by the announced new proposals for laws. Why did the applicant decide to adopt an approach whereby the matter which had been fully regulated in the ZURP so far would become subject to several laws and not possibly a new law? Such an approach, in their view, is questionable in terms of the transparency of the legal regulation of the area due to lack of explanation. Comprehensive regulation of an area as important as that of the service would, in the view of the service, be an advantage rather than a disadvantage for both the preparers and users. In view of the above, I believe that it would be appropriate or more transparent if, at the same time as the law submitted, amendments or additions to those laws, such as the Law on the Construction of Projects and the Law on the Protection of the Environment, which are directly linked to the law submitted, were submitted. With regard to the solutions relating to the adoption of inter-ministerial spatial acts, it is important to note that the law governing the provinces is almost ready to be drawn up. The identification of landscapes, and in particular their competences, would undoubtedly have an impact on spatial planning, in particular on the preparation of inter-ministerial acts. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Development supported all those solutions that would ensure shorter, more rational and transparent procedures for the adoption of spatial acts. With regard to the direction of spatial development of settlements in Article 6 of the bill, the Commission considers that it is not a concern to build an uncontrolled building of green space for parks. With the proposed solution, the Commission considers that the municipalities are asked to plan spatial development responsibly and rationally. The Council for the Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia considered that it was already a questionable ground for a proposal not to replace ZUREP in its entirety, but only to be the first of a set of laws in the final code. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Environment held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the draft law and adopted its amendments. In the debate, the members of the Committee considered that the aim of the proposal for a law was to simplify the procedures for the preparation and adoption of spatial acts so that the quality of those acts would not be compromised, while ensuring faster and easier access to all necessary building permits. They believed that by adopting the proposed law and awaiting a new building law, the system would be exposed to achieve this objective. However, they also have an important role to play in this regard in due time and in the adoption of sub-legislative acts, which need to elaborate the content of the law in more detail. The members of the Committee considered that the provision of Article 69 of the draft law should be designed so as to allow for a plot of building land without major bureaucratic complications. The Committee on the Environment and Space voted, in accordance with Rule of the Rules of Procedure, on all the articles of the bill and on the debate and vote on the amendments of the Committee, and adopted them after the discussion of the articles of the law has been concluded. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for a Spatial Planning Act, which is also an integral part of the report, is prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you, too. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at the 23rd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups. Therefore, we will go to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 6.3. I am thus putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. Two Members have applied for the debate on this Article and the amendment. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In my opening remarks, I would like to point out once again that in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, I personally believe that this concept of spatial planning is bad, that it has now divided a single system into individual sectoral laws, which are supposed to be reconnected and created, something that already exists; in my opinion, the Minister has made a wrong decision. Instead of more order and efficiency, this will lead to less order and less efficiency. However, the fact is that we are facing another reading, amendments and the report of the Committee on Environment and Space. And if we go to this other amendment, I would actually be interested in the position of the applicants, which I think is, of course, the Minister of Environment and Space to understand, the applicants have borrowed the name. In fact, in paragraph 24, which defines what a building plot is and that is, defines quite clearly, it says that the building plot, the plot, a series of plots which are with the State spatial plan and the municipal spatial plan for the construction of the building. The text "State Spatial Plan" is now deleted. Do your fellow mayors and mayors know what that means? This only means that, as buildings, not all of those, in fact, will be defined as building sites on which the infrastructure, facilities, whatever it is, will be defined by the State Spatial Plan. It can happen that with the State Spatial Plan, for example, there will also be a completely similar building, which is of municipal importance if you want, after all, there is no possibility that you will not build a residential settlement by this logic, but it will not be a building plot and because there will be no building land, there will also be no income coming from the buildings. In this way, the state would have said that it would have excluded itself from the possibility that the municipality would charge them for the use of building land or anything like that, which was already the case in infrastructure today. That means another exception. You are all obliged to pay for this, one and three or to work under such and different rules, except for the State. That is why I must say that I am calling on the parliamentary groups that have signed this if they really think that this is a good thing, which they have suggested that they sign under the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you, too. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much. In the beginning, however, I would look at the law as a whole and make a slight comment on this, mainly from the point of view of the municipalities and from the perspective of investors. I must say that the practice is such that whenever you talk to us about simplifications, when you talk to us about cutting down procedures, about how things are going to be nice and right now, we both fear investors and communities. And I regret to say that in the process of experimenting, which has been happening for quite some time in the area of spatial planning and, of course, later on in other laws related mainly to construction, the country has been here throughout the course of the developing glass. And also this law, unfortunately, does not bring, in my opinion, according to my practice, mainly from the point of view of the congregation, but also what I have experienced as a mayor in terms of the desire to quickly prepare land, walliness and building permits, exactly no progress, but even a step back, unfortunately. I'm truly sorry to have to say this. And, Mr Minister, however, I think that many of the ministers before you have already been the victims of, above all, the professional co-workers who participated in the drafting of these laws. And I can see that this time you fell into this "zos". It is an extremely centralistic law and, above all, it will be a complete stalemate during the transitional period. If you think back, I admit, I think that the existing law is flawed, bad, incomplete, in fact, it had one only good vision, it is that after the municipalities actually functioned on the spatial foundations ahead of them, I will say decades, but I will re-examine my spatial strategies and spatial plans, but unfortunately, the result was that two years, in fact, in Slovenia was not adopted a single spatial act in a new form. In particular, the municipalities have studied new legislation, started drafting different strategies, different bases, ordered documents and, of course, I am concerned that in future provisions it is written that the law can be applied or followed the existing procedure only in those who have already had new spatial acts drawn up. In my opinion, such congregations can be counted on the fingers of one hand. Most municipalities are in the middle of procedures. You gave them, I examined the documents myself, you gave them unequivocal or ambiguous information and instructions. For a while, there will be no problem to work on, but for a while, to wait for a short time, the municipalities have been working on, spending millions and millions, and now they will find themselves, I will say, before the new law, in the middle of work, after two years of vacation, which reigns in Slovenia. The profession sent us a few thoughts. He says we were two years ago, a new vacuum. What does this mean in terms of our development and strategic options, from the perspective of investors, from the perspective of those who want to invest? I can't answer that. It is not a concept of what the Government is saying, because at the operational level, these problems will mainly be borne by the municipalities that will, I will say, face serious problems and investors who will not find a chance to invest quickly. Of course, I think it would be better if the old marriage just in, I'll say, those points where it's clear that the biggest problems have been complemented, than that you've put it on your head again. You have taken on a great deal of authority, a great deal of coordination, which is, unfortunately, the professional services of this ministry never, I hope, cross, quite honestly, have never been able to do, either in the hands or professionally or properly, but they have always been the worst point and the bar that the local communities have actually encountered, have waited months and months for certain things, and those who, I will say, have been closer to making decisions may have made it in some year. The disaster was actually great, and I'm truly sorry that you're going this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u9	Thank you, too. Minister Podobnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Otherwise, the amendment to Article 2 speaks of other topics that have just been mentioned. I will then also briefly tell you why the Government is proposing the proposed amendment, but I would like to say a few more points of principle in this first act after the law has been presented. I'm pretty sure I'm going as a minister on the right track. I would like to remember, I would like to recall that we had a meeting with all Slovene municipalities just before we put the law into procedure in the National Assembly. All the municipalities at this meeting supported him, except for the representative of the Municipality of Ljubljana, who, in fact, listed some similar arguments here, which we have just heard, which are legitimate. But I don't think they can handle it. The very reasons that have been discussed are those that have finally convinced us that we must go into a conceptual change of law. First of all, I would like to say that every minister is the victim of his professional associates. I'm a victim of good professional associates. The Minister can only act if he has a good team with him and trusts her. The team I worked with, and they're here in front of me, is a professional, competent, working, hard-working team, and they made me a good marriage. Huge coordination, hours and hours, with expertise, with municipalities, with investors, with politicians, with European practices, so we have a good law before us. Madam Member, I can completely reassure you, from the point of view of the congregations, this is a big step forward. Members of Parliament will also tell you this - mayors who have been very active in preparing this law during the first and second readings in the National Assembly. From the point of view of investors and development projects, this law is a major step forward, as it allows for some shortcuts in procedures that the previous law did not allow. Finally, this is also a law that will allow the Republic of Slovenia to make a successful use of European development funds. I would also like to convince you or calm you about the rapid preparation of land, walliness and so on. This is an important question for each Slovenian congregation. This law brings about changes. The municipalities will get to these documents first. Your conclusion that sometimes the state is a developing country is correct. This was one of the key motives for changing the law and proposing solutions to make this bar substantially smaller than it has been before. If we had read all the articles in detail, all the proceedings, then we would have found that we had incorporated certain solutions into the law, so that, in any process where possible, either the state authority or the municipal authority would reduce to a minimum the time needed for their decision, but of course we have always tried to maintain the right measure so that this does not go to the detriment of professional decisions. And that was the hardest task of lawmakers not to get too carried away when you cut the time to cut it doesn't mean even worse professional decisions. Allow me only to briefly substantiate, perhaps also to explain to the Member, Dr Gantar why the Government supports this proposed amendment. It is supported by the fact that this deletion removes the possibility for a particular land to acquire the status of the building land also through the State Spatial Plan. This makes us consistent, and the law must be consistent, if you change something in an article, you also have to write it down in an article that speaks of usable terms, so we have consistently deleted the provisions, so we have implemented the decision that was taken on the Committee on Environment and Space, to the amendment to that article of the law, that is, 28 which speaks of the content of the State spatial plans. We have deleted provisions to specify areas of building and other land with the State Spatial Plan, as the debate has shown that such provisions have led to misunderstanding, in particular in relation to the provision that State spatial plans are normally prepared for the region and cover the whole country. And that the dedicated use of all land will be determined by the state in a new way. Therefore, with this amendment, supported by the Government, we have found a solution for the parliamentary groups to implement consistently and fully the rule that the State does not in any way specify the intended use of land instead of municipalities, nor does it provide for its spatial arrangements. The argument for this is dual, it's professionally systemic and practical. Let me explain a little bit more first. Finally, this also shows the concept of our law in which I, as Minister, consistently believe. At the municipal level, the determination of purposeful use means the most fundamental, if you want, general decision in the space, on the basis of or depending on which further rules and decisions are then laid down in the municipalities, spatially speaking. At the national level, however, this is a reverse process, since the state does not lay down general rules in the space, but those rules are intended to place a certain, well-known specific intervention in the space. Therefore, there is no need for a professional aspect of the system, in order for the state to determine for itself the status of the land in advance and then, on the basis of it, to establish more similar regimes. The purpose in the case of planning at national level is therefore not "and road" but is due to the fact that a new amended definition is being built on a given land. We are therefore for the creation of building land on the basis of actual, not planned, use. It's systemic. Now allow me to present the practical significance of this solution. With the prior determination of the area of State spatial acts, from the date of their application, landowners have become owners of building land, with the prior determination. Regardless of the fact that it was still a matter of principle for agricultural or forest land and that their building, in the notes, actually had such importance only for investors of planned state arrangements, but in practice - here we have a lot of experience - this caused great difficulties in obtaining these land for the investor. And that's exactly what you were asking us about whether this law would change that. The landowners, on the basis of the fact that the owners of the building land have demanded, is known, a very high purchase for them and have often not been willing to sell them at their actual value. In doing so, I would point out in particular that the purpose of the regulation, as set out in the proposed law, is not that it would weaken the trading venues with the owner of such land as regards purchases, which will still, as is the case in the market economy, be market-driven and based on valuations, the purpose is, above all, and only that the expectations of landowners regarding purchases would not be, as is often the case, unrealistic. However, the unrealistic and unjustifiable expectations of owners, let's face it, those involved in investment often greatly prolong land-building processes. And then how does it even end - instead of an agreement, it even ends forcefully, by decommissioning. We therefore assess that the proposed amendment is the right one, and the Government proposes to be endorsed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u11	Thank you, too. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go, please. Five members were added to the debate. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I come from the border municipality of Sežana, and I would like to say a few words about what is now a practice, and I believe that the good intentions of this law are to reduce administrative and legal procedures, as well as to simplify the process of obtaining construction documentation and to meet this need for building both in individual buildings and in industrial building. However, the greater jurisdiction of the congregations, you emphasize, Minister. I agree with that. What about the administrative and legal procedure? Whether this will make it longer or shorter is, of course, the basic question that I am interested in, because these procedures are being carried on for years today. It takes several years for an amendment to the PUP, a planning and regulatory act setting out the conditions of the foundation. And, of course, individual construction, you know, to every individual who's willing to solve his own housing problem with his own money, the country should come to the rescue. Maximumly reduce administrative and legal procedures and listen immediately to the needs of space, of course also allow the area of expansion of the wall area, within borders, of reasonable building limits. This is not happening today, Your Honor. The procedures are long and, on the other hand, a speculative purpose is allowed also under the so-called greater powers of the owners of the buildings. The municipality does have the right to charge a tax on an uncharted building land, unless it is built for more than so long and so long, but it does happen that purchases are also made for speculative purposes and here the state has done nothing. It happens that someone buys land at a price that is a tenth of the value, then sits on it and waits for the congregation to actually make a municipal location plan, because he owns the land and then extorts it with a price that he or she increases by 20 times. What has the state done in this area? Speculative moments are present in each municipality, each of the mayors can confirm this. On the contrary, the municipality has the only possible instrument to exclude land from the wall area or to determine the tax that the State has in fact placed under the jurisdiction of the municipalities and is in fact in the opinion of the municipalities as to what it should be at the time of the assessment. This is good, but I am particularly interested in individual constructions, how we will prevent speculative moments in the design of spatial plans that have been imposed, often imposed, by local urbanism. I am also interested in how we will resolve the shortening of these long-term administrative and legal procedures. There's nothing in this country that she's done?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u13	Thank you. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. I'm just gonna stick with the amendment. Look, I don't see the problems pointed out by a fellow Member Dr. Gantar. Article 27 also contains a proposal for an amendment that clearly defines, of course, if we adopt it, it is considered that the adoption of the State Spatial Plan amends or complements the municipal spatial acts to work and the areas of individual spatial arrangements set out in the State Spatial Plan. Perhaps this amendment had to be written precisely because, as you have previously explained, the state would not have overstated the local communities in certain cases. I have no fear of this because this is now written here, if we accept this amendment, then it means that if the State Spatial Plan is adopted, which will also define the building land or we have unwalled and walled building land, and then that is whether or not the municipal spatial plans will be modified, or this will apply to the municipal spatial plan. I fully agree with the amendment proposed in Article 2 to delete the State Spatial Plan for the identification of buildings. Once again, I do not see any fear that the state or the Ministry of the Environment and Space would gain any advantages with regard to certain obligations that also arise with regard to space intervention. That's why I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u15	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. This amendment, however, raises a number of questions. In my opinion, this is a systemic change in the law. So, in all this period of consideration of this law, especially in the National Assembly, there are, of course, certain warnings, but every such warning follows a whole range of activities. The Minister has already stated in his explanation that, when we changed on the 28th Article Committee, with regard to the State Spatial Plan, we are now correcting this second article. But this is an important systemic change, so that in the State Spatial Plan you no longer define the use of land as a purpose. In my view, the concept of the law has completely changed. I also have some practical questions. Even if we look immediately at the next amendment or amendment to Article 27, it speaks of the fact that once we adopt the State Spatial Plan, it is no longer necessary to change the municipal spatial plans, but it is only in the form of a State Spatial Plan that the local spatial plan has been adopted. So what's the point of a state spatial plan if you're only in the municipality for a purposeful use of land? And if we are talking about rationalisation, then it would be better for the congregation to have more authority and not to mix these national spatial plans to such an extent, but to such an extent, because we do not, in fact, solve anything with them, under this law. There is only some additional procedure that is envisaged, but does not, in fact, lead to exactly no result. In my opinion, it will even cause, then at some stage, confusion and, as stated in the law, in the part as the State Spatial Plan will be adopted, an automatic change will also be made to the local one and in fact we will not know exactly what is going on in the space and what legislation is being adopted. Thus, with this change, as stated in this amendment, it would be better if we gave the congregations the authority to plan the use and, indeed, to intervene in the space. For those state investments or measures that the state needs, of course, let us define one concrete spatial act which, in my opinion, was well resolved by the location plan, which would have been adapted if you thought it was too demanding, too detailed, but it was a clear response to the fact that the State is planning an investment then you can also define it in this act. Now we are going to adopt certain acts for the whole country, and in the end we will find that this act does not actually have any validity, except so much so that it changes the municipal act a little bit. So I would like to point out that this is a very serious systemic change by proposing this amendment, and also by some other amendments, below, I would like to draw attention to these non-systemic solutions, which I think will lead to more problems in planning space, more problems in how we will lead to any kind of process as far as possible today. And I see that, in fact, it is one of the only good aspects of this law, the fact that we will be able to continue to change spatial regulatory conditions, in accordance with the old, former legislation, until we implement these new ones, thereby avoiding many of the complications that I think will arise because of such solutions, when the law tries to improve at the same time, and in my opinion, further distort that purpose in order to lead to more effective solutions. So I have very serious concerns about what it is to do with this law if this amendment is adopted. I think that the state spatial plans could then be completely deleted, maintained strategically, left to the municipalities, and the matter can be simple, transparent and we can plan space as well, and I think that the European and also in practice are desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you, too. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, respected colleagues and colleagues! I think you attach too much importance to this article 2 and this amendment. Article 2 defines the concepts or their meaning, and we refer to what is considered to be a building land in this section of point 24. Just that, no more. I don't think anything catastrophic is going to happen if we accept this amendment, like I don't know what a great benefit it will be for anyone if we don't accept it. Expectations that this will reduce land prices in areas where the VAT will be accepted, I think they are not exactly justified. We can't stop it, we know that as soon as something happens in space, as soon as it's known, it's over. We can write 100 times that something is building or not building, it doesn't matter. If we want to prevent such speculative purposes, we already have a mechanism in the legislation that we do not use very often, and that is that those who adopt a specific act stop traffic in the area that this act deals with until such an act is adopted and then enforces the pre-emptive right and in the context of this exercise comes from prices that are professionally justified and determined. Because we know that these procedures are long no one is serving them and the problem is here. Now, Mr President-in-Office, allow me to make some general observations, too, given that other debaters have taken advantage of this opportunity. This has become kind of a habit in this National Assembly. I don't think it's too bad that in cases where we don't have these general presentations, we should have a little broader debate at the first amendment. I'm sure marriage is very important and it's too bad it's a little late. We know that the current ZUREP came into force on 1 January 2003, some of you sitting in this Chamber discussing how bad these new solutions were sitting here and you accepted this ZUREP. I can't say it's the worst ZUREP, but apparently it's not good, it's not the best. Probably, though, what happened on his basis is even worse. So, what happened in the framework of the sub-laws is what somehow complicated the procedures and things and, therefore, somehow the space does not breathe as it should in our country, especially in terms of the implementation of the development objectives, it is possible to agree. So if we find that what we have now is not good, then we cannot say that if a change is proposed and if the attempt is to read in detail, that certain things simplify, that it is bad. The greatest danger to me is not the law that we are dealing with today, but the practice. A practice that has somehow been stopped over the years and decades and which some very, very strangely hold and hold. And if those who are looking over this area consistently apply what we have written in this law, in my opinion two things will happen, "not necessarily" it is that the procedures will be reduced and "not necessarily" that the procedures will be simplified. However, the biggest problem is precisely the part that the law can't handle in any way, and I think it's the direction that the ministry is then obliged to implement and to look at this area. It is very difficult in the law on spatial planning or the regulation of space, as we call it, to satisfy all the interests that arise in this area, both the interests of investors and local communities, the countries, those who are in charge of the office's duty to be over what is happening in the room, very difficult to find a balance, a balanced approach, and I think that the ambition of these changes speaks in this direction, because of the fact that there are some objections from all the logs, both from investors as planners and municipalities and so on, but there are no ones who say that the areas need not to be reorganized, repositioned and changed. For example, by allowing room to be regulated in one act, if I am speaking now about the area of municipalities, in the municipal plan, this is a good thing. This is good, and I think the congregations that strategically look at space and who have clear guidelines will be doing so much. And only for areas that are specific will space be regulated by these detailed spatial plans to make this relatively small, and that, I think, is nothing bad. This supplement must be welcomed in any way. As must be welcomed, all the procedures in force continue. And here it is not true what Cveta Zalokar Orazem's colleague said that those who have not yet had a divorce are in an uncertain situation because they do not know how. It is necessary to read all the articles of the 95th to 99th Law and the amendments thereto, and if you read them carefully, you will see that all the procedures under way are in order. Ordered in such a way that those who are at some intermediate stage will conclude the procedure, either under the provisions of the ZUREP or under the provisions of the new law, and in any event they will be considered to have adopted, or to have adopted, acts of weight and importance, and also the title of acts under the new law, which I think is most important, because we are not renegotiating, to some lengths, within two, five years when matters need to be settled again. So I think on this ledge, the case is good, well set. Personally, I may have expected a little more ambition from the proposer, especially in the sense that the area would be regulated in a more systematic way, because I think there is a flaw in keeping part of the ZUREP in force. We think that this is one flaw and that at least in the initial stage it may cause some different views and possibly also different expectations. In general, I think that the space for this change is in some way being relaxed and that the procedures, the novelty, or this new law, can actually be significantly faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u19	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Allow me to have a few general words, too. In my presentation, Mr Minister, I have heard that this is a good law prepared by the expert team, despite the fact that the law in 113 articles is as many as 83 members of the amendment, by government parties, more or less by government parties. Now I don't know if you cooperated when you were making the law, or if there's something wrong with the law. I can't believe you can say that it's a good law if it's just been changed in 83 articles by MPs who belong to the government coalition. And just to clarify, he thinks that it will be easier for me to decide how to vote on this amendment, I would really ask the proposers of this amendment, let it not be the government, because we know that it is not that they tell us in two sentences what the purpose of this amendment is, just in two sentences. I believe that you've been preparing him in the parliamentary groups and not in the government, and I believe that the ones you've been preparing are sitting here. In two sentences, just tell us, just the purpose of making a decision, or such an amendment really means something good or something bad. Only in two sentences. I'm really going to expect an answer from the proponents, and I see that from all three of the parties that you've proposed, someone is sitting here and I think this will be very quickly feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u21	Thank you. My word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Allow me to comment after this second round of discussions on the amendment to Article 2. I would also like to be very specific. In two sentences, the contents of this amendment were explained in their first words by a colleague, Mr Cernač, in two sentences. He made it very clear that it is in some way we are about an amendment that sets out more clearly the solution in the law. That is the essence of this amendment, and exactly as Mr Mikolić said, it is also linked to the amendment to Articles 28 and 27. Finally, it must be said that it is only concepts that touch this law. But I have to say, you know, in the end, it's important that the National Assembly adopts a good law, no matter how many amendments are made to it. I have not made any illusions that such complicated legal matter can be prepared in such a way as to go through the procedure without more amendments. On the contrary, the path we have chosen is good. The National Assembly, together with its experts, improved the law. Finally, it is important that the law will live well and that the good practice that Mr Cernač spoke about is not an important number of amendments. I would also insist on Mr Chernač's thoughts that it would be good if we systematically went to the end, but if we went to the end, then this is such a great deal of expertise that you have already said that we came late with this change of law, with this new law, so that maybe in these time dimensions we might come later. We have decided, in a sense for a compromise solution and that there will be no misunderstanding, the current ZUREP has a number of good solutions, but it is true that a number of the good solutions written in the law-abiding text have failed in practice and that is why we have gone into the proposed changes. I would also like to answer Mr Friend when he asks about the administrative and legal procedures and their rationalisation, that in inter-departmental coordination there is a change to the Construction Act, which will be of a smaller nature and address these issues. And I hope the National Assembly gets him on the table in no time. The regulations adopted by the Minister under this law are also important. It is all written in the draft, and my relationship is that when the National Assembly adopts the law, you will also be familiar with the content of these regulations, this is a new bang, very hard for my team, but it has been implemented and all the regulations are now ready. With regard to speculation about walled land, here it is necessary to say, I think that Mr Cernač mentioned the instrument which the State has, this is a ban on transport as a temporary measure on the basis of the current ZUREP, and we do so in some cases. For example, for the route of a highway section or another large infrastructure facility, we use it. The second instrument has a municipality called the 'preliminary right of the congregation'. Some congregations strategically and responsibly enforce this, but some do not. And another instrument is that, in part, it can be a form of confrontation, although speculation can always be dealt with only by tools that have a basis in law and by law. Also an instrument of compensation for the use of building land is, in a certain segment, also a tool of the municipal administration, of the municipal council to deal with this issue. Last but not least, in my previous explanation why the Government supports this amendment, however, I mentioned this very issue, which relates to the high purchases in these buildings, in order to make a small contribution to this amendment more clearly. A very important question was raised in a single sentence that sometimes imposed spatial acts were adopted. In the spatial planning process from the point of view of the State and the municipality, we are fully consistent to comply with the Aarhus Convention, which is called public inclusion. This is a European norm, which is now also the norm of the Slovenian acquis and since we are a democratic state, there is no formal way at the municipal state level to adopt an act that would have been enforced. If the municipal council works at public meetings or if there is always a document in government procedure that hangs on the websites or on an ad board called the Internet portal of government proposals. So, too, this solution is now, I mean, consistently implemented. And an answer to Mr. Webber. This amendment does not change the concept of law in any way. In no way changes the concept of the law, but only because the debate raised the question, in the National Assembly, on the Committee, and since the committee had also proposed, the professional services had also opened this issue to make it a question of misinterpretation as to why it was being prepared, then, an amendment to the article was proposed, I think, on the 27th or 28th, and because it was adopted there, it was only a technical amendment which was bound to the amendment to Article 2 and, of course, we have understood the law from the beginning as it is now with this amendment. The amendment does not have any great conceptual weight but will make the legal matter more clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u23	Thank you. I'm opening a new application circuit. Please. We have an additional five MPs. I call to the floor the Member of Paul Ganttar. Here you go. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u25	Excuse me, Mr. Paul Gantar, just a second. Didn't I understand what you were saying? I'll open another round, especially for you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly, because everyone was referring to a colleague of Blacks, I'll do it, and I'll say it very simply. With 90% of what Mr Chernač said about ZUREP, about his mechanisms, I agree. They differ on the fact that I believe that we should either renovate the ZUREP or write a new one, regardless of the complexity, but not break the matter, which will then have to be drawn up again in a more difficult and more conflict-oriented way. Secondly, I absolutely agree with the issue of building land and speculation. There's nothing to add to what's been said. Already now there are instruments that can partially limit speculation, but never completely, let's be honest, will not be able to be completely limited. Only then will it be possible to do so through the payment of income and taxes and profits. That's the way it is all over the world. What is the problem, and which is the principles of colleague Mikolić, is, of course, that if we look at the content, the 27th paragraph, the 3rd paragraph, the State Spatial Plans, the basis for the preparation of construction permit facilities under the building regulations, and the 28th paragraph determining the content, it is said that the areas of individual spatial arrangements are determined so precisely that their boundaries can be determined in nature and shown in the earth's cadastra. So, this is an emergency, determining the building land, otherwise it can't be. The only difference is that the state has said, I am an exception, for all others, that building lands are defined with their legal and financial consequences, such and different, except for me, the country. And that's not good. And go ahead. Exactly this article, then I will not talk about it again, and the amendment to Article 27 means that the municipal spatial plans with the State Spatial Plan change, and therefore whether the municipality again determines exactly what the minister said would not specify, building land, of course not for itself, but for the state, but for the new congregation, or nothing at all. It no longer lays down building plots for itself or for the municipality, for in this definition the State Spatial Plan is no longer the legal act by which building plots are established. So it is not possible, nor is anything allowed for the congregations - or is it possible; for the congregation yes and for the country. At the very least, it's ambiguity, and that I won't waste time, is actually a question that's unresolved for me or that I just really don't understand very little or nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u27	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. We do have a very demanding law before us today, and I would even hope to argue that one of the most demanding laws in this period. The law, which also has very large consequences for the country and for the municipality, also for the purely individual population of Slovenia, who lives in this Slovenian space. That marriage is difficult to understand, especially for a person who is not at home in this area, I fully agree. For I must say myself, because as far as I know these things from before, it seems to me that it is necessary to deepen the law itself, so that you can understand what this law actually brings. When ZUREP was adopted, it was very similar to how it was necessary to make certain changes in the area of space regulation, how things needed to be simplified, reduced procedures, etc. We've got the law, we've got the submarital acts, we've got a few years now, a four-year practice, but unfortunately, this practice has shown that those solutions just didn't bring what was expected of the law. I must say that even today, when this law is adopted, I am concerned that what happened to ZUREP would not happen again. However, if I am not overly concerned, I must say that the reason is that there have been a lot of people involved in the drafting of the law - the profession, the congregations, the interested public, and I am glad that at least by the congregations, the law has experienced so much as 100% support. As far as the profession is concerned, unfortunately the profession is also made up of different branches, from different fields, but for different solutions is otherwise heated. I think that every profession here also wants to exercise some of its interests, but I think that the concept that this new law brings is a good one and that it will lead to what we want to do is to simplify procedures, to shorten procedures and, last but not least, to appreciate procedures. I think that it is the mayors who know very well how much the municipality spends on accepting the planning acts it needs, and if we come up with more rational solutions here, it is meant to be appreciated, and what is very important to me, to shorten procedures, which also means, on the other hand, appreciation, we will achieve a great deal. I cannot, in this debate, pass what I also asked Minister Podobnik on Monday when we talked about the third development axis. I don't think we can even imagine one faster state development if we don't change or adopt this Spatial Planning Act. In response, the Minister also claimed that this fast road from Arje to Velenje and Koroška will not depart for as long a period of time as they have already begun to predict, even on the basis of our acceptance of this ZUREP. I was going to say two more, three words about administrative procedures followed or used by individuals for their construction. However, here I must say that after the current legislation, if the party had all the necessary information, it is said that if a municipal act was adopted that allowed some construction, and if the party came to the administrative unit with all the necessary documents, the administrative procedure could have been completed very quickly and also within a month. However, the time problem is whether we have acts or acts that enable what we want or not, and then also the design of projects themselves. So as far as administrative procedures are concerned, I say, it's already another matter, it's already an upgrade to what we're talking about today. I just wanted to say that, too, I must say that I am in favour of this and I hope that this law will not go the other way; it is said that the fundamental right of the congregation to have its place, even under this law, remains and that the congregation essentially regulates only those, I will say, matters of state importance. And that the congregations will be those who, in their territory, will be masters of their place. And it is also true that the congregations are the ones who make the decision. With regard to this amendment to Article 2, I do not attach any weight to it. It does not matter, although Article 2 itself is important, because it is terminology that we understand each other, that we know what we are talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Commissioner Christian Janz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Those who know and meet this existing law in life, in practice, especially in the municipalities, we certainly know that there are many shortcomings and problems in planning, obstacles, and hands and everything else. I think that the last time we have before us a proposal for amendments to this law, which is extremely important for every congregation, is extremely important for Slovenia as a whole, and I believe to a large extent that all this coordination has been between many actors, experts, non-experts, the public, and so on. And not least, many amendments, which are the fruit of some work also in the National Assembly, because we are also Members who are ultimately trying to improve the situation that we get in the National Assembly. And these amendments are just a step towards what we all aspire to and want the best possible marriage. Whether it's 20 or 50 amendments, it doesn't matter at all. It is important that in the end the product will be such that it will serve to act in those matters that the Slovenian municipalities need for their development. And to gain greater difficulty, greater competence by those who know their space, who know their advantages, their development potential, their goals and these are certainly local communities, absolutely, in cooperation with the country, which also has its plans in each area, in each region. I think that this law has this weight, this delimitation of powers between the state, between the municipalities, and that because of what we have also expected you at the professional level, the local community, that the people involved in this, the planners, say that this is a step forward. Whether it will also show a step forward in the scratch, I hardly judge, it will show the time whether we have hit what we need, or not - I hope that we are and that such indications are also obtained by those who are professionally, professionally engaged in this law, which is of exceptional importance. Of course, there is always a lot of interest, there are state, local, capital, individual landowners, all of this is impossible to put together in a good story. It's impossible because you know what speculations are like in the space that happens. But all of this has been taken into account and I believe that this matter, which is also very difficult for me - I honestly say, from this "foha" I am not, and this thing is very difficult for me, but I know that we have gone through it several times and looked at people who get to know it more. I must say that with these amendments, which the coalition has also adopted and will make amends, this law will, in my opinion, be appropriate, acceptable and will give its important steps primarily to the development of the municipalities in this spatial planning, which, as I have already said, is of paramount importance for the faster and better development of each congregation. But I also know that today's debate can only improve something else. Last but not least, the amendments that are under way can, with this debate, which is more or less, apologize to the President, even a little general, but it is nothing wrong in this case that you allow it, I think it is right that you allow everyone, and that is quite correct. However, as far as this amendment is concerned, Article 2 and I see no terrible change here either, that this is deleted "in the State Spatial Plan" and thus the concept of the law and also this article, which is important, as everyone else has already said before me, does not change much, but is only a correction that can only be even better than what is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u31	Thank you, too. I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you. Depending on the time, I'll be brief. Can you please tell me again, I don't understand why, I emphasize why we should delete the words "with a national spatial plan"? Why? What does that mean, what does it change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u33	Thank you. We're opening a new application circuit. Here you go, please. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Milan Cwickl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think that in today's debate, however, the actual reasons for amending this law should be heard, especially for reasons which I think will then have to present themselves even more seriously in the amendment to Article 2. Therefore, I would like to hear from the representatives of the Government very carefully what will still be the clear competences of individual institutions due to or in connection with the amendments adopted. Here, in particular, as a non-expert for this area in some way, I am drawing on what Mr Member of the Silesian Valley has said, Mr Koren, who is an expert in this area. And if he himself expresses doubts about some of the ones presented here, either solutions or suggestions, the more he thinks of himself as a non-expert, he raises many doubts. We are quickly changing some law, which, in my opinion, mainly means a very large centralisation. A few months ago, however, we adopted amendments to the Constitution that actually talk about decentralisation, or at least they should talk about decentralisation. So, gentlemen, the representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, do you really think that if you pull yourself together and you decide in one place after simplified procedures how something in the space in Slovenia will cost you, of course, to solve the problems. I'm afraid you'll create major problems in the first place. For who? Of course, for people who live not in the ministry, but live always in a congregation. That is why I now predict in connection with the debate on Article 27 that we need here a clear presentation by the Government - I am sorry that the Minister of Environment and Space has left. I must say that I am very surprised that the Minister for Environment and Space goes to the law that he answered on Monday on the question of Parliament, but that this law is the right answer to all the problems that occur in Slovenia with spatial planning, but is no longer ready, able or willing to defend this law in the debate below. So representatives of the government, I volunteered to hear a clear message from your side about the reasons for this amendment and then in connection with why big centralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Excuse me, I didn't see it. [[...]] Here you are, Ambassador Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Maybe I was really misunderstood. I don't doubt the marriage itself, but I said I hope it doesn't happen the way it did with ZUREP. That is, when all of you who have accepted it have been confident that it will solve all things, but in practice it has turned out that things have not been resolved as you wanted them to. I can still say I hope this doesn't happen. After my current conduct, I am convinced that the marriage is better and that it solves these problems that we want to solve.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Now, to my word, I invite the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. We have received in this general work in the manner of Minister Janez Podobnik, the swearing mainly verbally and verbally, how this law is good or how it will be better than the previous one. The only difference is that the coalition Members would say, believe it, but we are concerned because we know that no law is ideal and only good. What bothers me - now the minister is gone - is analysis. He spoke or talked about this, I have not seen these analyses of Slovenian spatial planning so far - not serious; nor has any spatial act been adopted after the previous law, but there is no analysis of a serious problem to go into the depth of the problem; even though the strategy of Slovenia provides for such analysis on all spatial plans or normative documents in this area. It's not like that. Tell me, on what basis did you then do in this comparison? For I must say that the warnings of Mr Jožet Kavčič, I hope that you have read them, are very serious that it is a combination, a bad combination of the old and the new. In this sense, I am interested in the fact that it is not just a name, unfortunately, that is all I have seen in this law, that some notions change a little. I just don't see a solution here. Because I'm not going to call again on the next amendment, and this. I'm surprised and it gives me a bad feeling no matter how many articles are being amended, that even on the committee of one content you put out, say, an urban plan on the committee you deleted, now you're dragging it back with a new amendment. The only thing that gives me such moves is a sign, I'll say, confusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. In fact, I am surprised that the proposaler or the minister does not feel a systemic change in the law if we remove from the State Spatial Plan provisions that say that the State Spatial Plan lays down building plots. In addition, it was deleted that agricultural, forest and other land should also be laid down in the area of the State Spatial Plan and that water land should be shown in accordance with the law. This is about a systemic change. I submit that this makes the State Spatial Plan, as provided for in this Act, completely unnecessary in the other articles, no longer necessary. All that you have written in your explanation for the amendment to Article 2 that the State Spatial Plan sets out only the area of individual spatial arrangements, we can do in the State Strategic Spatial Plan and we can really talk about rationalisation. But to back up, I'm going to say, this systemicity, and I'm going to ask a specific question. According to the hierarchy, the State Spatial Plan is a higher spatial act than the municipal spatial plan. On the basis of the State Spatial Plan, you can also issue a building permit. Now I'm gonna ask. How will you issue a building permit if you do not specify the building plot in the State Spatial Plan? How? Is it a systemic solution or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. A representative of the government, mag. Starman, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much, chairman, for your word. Look, I'd touch two questions. First of all, with regard to the State Spatial Plan, its implementation and the concept of building and other land, which we refer to as dedicated land in the profession. The main starting point is that as the main planner to cover the entire territory of the country, it is the municipality. The municipality is the one who is concerned with the identification of these categories of assigned uses by territory and the country is the one that places specific objects in the space. Category, I'm afraid there's actually been a nominal error here, not a mistake in understanding this, not in the legal context of this change. The main starting point is certainty; the determination of both municipal spatial plans and the state spatial plan. Definition in legal terms means that such a plan must have clearly defined conditions for what should be done in the area of this plan. When it comes to the state plan, this is clearly clear from Articles 27 and 28, what is defined as a condition for the state as an investor in the area. Speaking of building land in this traditional sense, this is what the congregation determines in its territory, where another investor may also be. When it comes to state arrangements, it is always an investor state, and for municipal arrangements private investors are also, and it is important that this category exists as a building plot. Since no other legal consequences other than those laid down in paragraphs 27 and 28 when it comes to national plans, there are no additional consequences for the fact that something is building or not building, in the case of state plans. Look, we brought together a tradition that talks about these dedicated uses as four major categories, just to follow customs and runaway practices that developed mainly in municipal planning. And here I would like to say, and precisely because this definition of the category of building land is in this nominal sense of the jurisdiction of the congregation, it also reflects that far from centralising the system. On the contrary, the state can only and only plan this, and specifically plans, as provided for in the 27th and subsequent Articles, and the municipality has general competence here. So this amendment does not change in any way, far from changing the concept of law. It is only a nominal operation, which legally has no consequences at the state level, but at the municipal level the matter is done in such a way that we are in traditional terms, which in all tradition of municipal planning exists. But that's all I'd add to the analysis. Many analyses were made prior to the preparation of the current ZUREP. Many national location plans have been adopted following the current ZUREP and many preparations or work on the preparation of municipal acts have already been undertaken and is under way on the basis of ZUREP. And in this way it has been evident that some of the root, serious mistakes we have made with this regulation, for which, once again, I stress that it requires first and foremost certainty, we wanted to remedy. It is true, however, that this spirit of the regulation will be reflected in sub-laws and, above all, must be reflected in the practice of all actors in this procedure. I would therefore like to point out that this amendment, this amendment has no substantive legal implications for the division of powers between the State and the municipality, has no substantive legal implications for the determination of what is to be written in the State plan and has no impact on the rights of landowners to be included in the State Spatial Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u43	I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Mr. Starman, you haven't answered my question, and then it will be easier to answer whether or not it has legal consequences. I know that this amendment is due to the adoption of the amendment to Article 28, and we all know that this was a systemic change. At least I hope it's a systemic change if you remove from the State Spatial Plan the provisions to set construction, agricultural, forest and water land there. This is a completely changed concept for me of the State Spatial Plan and also of this law. And I claim that the State Spatial Plan as such is no longer needed in this law, not in the exact content that is currently envisaged. Indeed, Article 44 provides for what this State Spatial Plan should contain. And this, so precise determination in the State Spatial Plan, in this amendment, when it no longer specifies building, agricultural and water land, is absolutely unnecessary. And I'm asking you again. On the basis of the State Spatial Plan, how will you issue a building permit? According to this law, on the basis of the State Spatial Plan, you can issue a building permit. If you do not have a building plot, how will you issue a building permit on the basis of the State Spatial Plan? Are these legal consequences or not legal consequences? They're for me. I believe that, on the basis of such an amended law and also on the basis of this amendment, it is not possible to issue a building permit under Article 2. And in Article 27, you say you can betray him. Yeah, in my opinion, you can't do it unless you have a specific building plot. Only on condition that the congregation determines it. But if the congregation determines it, then I return to my claim that we do not need a state spatial plan in the same content as is currently provided for in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with the Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u46	Look, the building permit is issued for the building, not for the building land. And the determination of the conditions under which you can build is clearly written and is set out in Article 28. On the basis of the conditions laid down in Article 44 of this Law, a building permit may be issued. Thus, building land is a result of determining the conditions under which you can build, and it is therefore very clear in the first or second paragraphs of Article 25. However, when the building is built under the conditions laid down in the State Plan, it is a building plot, in itself. You have a double definition: the municipality determines the building land, while the state determines how the buildings are built and when the buildings are set up, this is the building land. The point is very simple. The country is not the one that would be all-inclusive - and this was one of the objections on the committee, why, now that we are planning in the development regions with all the state regulations at the same time, does this mean that we will cover the entire region with a national purpose. That was a question on the board. It is precisely to avoid this understanding that we have proposed this amendment. And now that this has happened, it is perfectly clear that the country in the entire area of the development region will not determine the intended use, but will be the municipality, but the state will do for what it will build, exclusively and only, and will be the building land under the State Act only when the building is built. Now the problem is we don't need a state plan anymore. In short, the goal was to find exactly the clarifying moment and we made it with this method. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u47	Anybody else want to discuss this? Then we'll open a new circle. I'm asking you to sign up. I invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I am simply not going out of my mind to simply disable municipalities by deleting one single word so that the buildings of national importance whose construction is determined by the State Spatial Plan following this new proposal for a law on the regulation of premises can be prevented from being built in the municipalities in which these buildings are built. And I would like to list a few of them: for example, the second block of the nuclear power plant, the landfill of nuclear waste, then the earth's buildings, the land near the hydro power plants, for example, the new gas power plant, which will certainly appear. Then very extensive resting areas with the facilities on the resting places, with all the utility equipment attached to it, along the highways. These are all objects that we cannot talk about as transport, energy, municipal infrastructure. These are objects which are purely ordinary buildings that use municipal infrastructure, but for their municipalities will not be able to, as long as the law is still in force and there will be no new property tax law, to collect compensation for the use of building land, as there is no legal basis for calculating compensation for the deletion of one word in the second article. No one says that the requirement of municipalities to charge compensation is justified, for example, as was the case with the accumulation lakes, gas pipelines and similar things. This is logical, and it is also stated in the law that no compensation is applied for such purposes. Talking about building a building on a land that is not a building land transforms this land into a building land - physically yes, but not by law. And for this reason, I believe that there is another game here, which is also indirectly linked to Article 84, because it is the fact that the State wants to prevent, in its opinion, unnecessary expenditure and, on the other hand, to take control of all financial flows completely; in this law, it is one part of the financial flows that take place in the public sphere, including the financial flows that take place through the municipal budget. For this reason, I do not think we can talk about whether this is a beautiful mistake or a correction, but it is a real systemic change, which means especially harm to the congregations. It certainly benefits the state budget, but I do not think that the state can think in a way that gives one part of the public interest more importance than the other, one level more importance than the lower level. I don't think anyone here who thinks well-intentioned can consider this amendment to Article 2 to be a simple text correction, but not a very clear purpose to save ourselves certain expenses that are not so small after all.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u49	Thank you. Member Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u50	I'm just gonna give it a little try, 'cause time is running out. If this is truly meant in the way the Secretary of State said you could issue a building permit anywhere and then set up this facility, and then when you build it, you say, this is now a building plot, and this is no longer a spatial planning, but a perfect anarchy. This, I think, goes beyond all legal frameworks in fact. And if the intent of this law is in that sense, then we don't need anything else at all, we need a state space plan that allows you to get a building permit anywhere, build a building, and then say, that's going to be a building plot. I'm sorry I can't agree with that. This is no longer just a systemic change, but in my view it is a complete anarchy in the area of construction.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u51	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much again. Now I really don't know if some of the things that have been said more than once today, you don't understand or are being misled. I think that as clearly as things have been said in connection with this 2nd Article, the lighted multilayer, on several sides, is virtually impossible to say. And it's not about any systemic, non-systemic or anarchy, non-concept and so on. It is simply that some people consider - and this is also one of the important arguments why this amendment is proposed - to break the expectations of the country's high prices for individual land due to infrastructure facilities by this definition. It's one moment, and it's nothing out of the ordinary. We can only differ in whether this is reasonable thinking or not. But I've said many times that it doesn't hurt to write this and that I don't see any non-systemicity in it. It is simply to allow for certain simplifications or appreciation of the procedures to be followed in the future. And there's nothing out of the ordinary if this built-up public good gets the status, as the Secretary of State said. I don't see anything out of the ordinary here, it's the law that can be arranged and there's nothing at stake. When you speak in this connection with charging compensation for the use of building land and the alleged and disadvantaged municipalities on this basis. Firstly, those who say this should know that the compensation for the use of the building land is not already charged for municipal infrastructure facilities under the current legislation, even if it is, and even if it is, in the future, when the NSI is eliminated and a local tax is imposed, it will still be possible to charge this when the matter is built. The Secretary of State has given her the status she's about to gain! Thus the matter is completely simple, clear, transparent, non-systematic and nothing catastrophic, I say again, it will not happen, but it is my personal view whether we accept it or not. Some, and most of them, think that this will also help us to meet high expectations about prices in areas that will be regulated in the future, if I simplify, for highways and so on. That's it. I think it's very clear and fair and there's nothing to hide about. Then it states in this connection that the state plan will run over the municipality. Yeah, how's that settled now? I'm asking you nicely, but isn't that settled now? It is already so arranged, the state plan overruns the municipal, yes, but it is clear; there is no dispute here; if the state plans the highway, it is clear that the municipal act is being overrun at that part of the municipality. I'm saying it's simplified. But that's right. And why would it be any different in the future? Do you think it would be necessary to change the range of municipal acts in the future for the objects of state importance, and only then - I don't know, I don't understand it! I don't know what the point of this thinking is. So I must say, some feelings are deceiving. Now why they're cheating on them: or if they haven't read the law, that's their problem. Thus it is not a bad combination of old and new, as was said, because we preserve part of ZUREP, we are doing some "gemist" from which we do not know what will come out. I also said that it would be good to make a little more effort and make a systemic arrangement. The minister explained what the reasons were. Already in this part of the regulation, when it comes to spatial planning, a great deal of effort has been put in place, huge coordination and probably a time component would take some time before it comes to it, but the areas are separate, we from ZUREP exclude spatial planning, and that is here, the second remains in ZUREP, there is no dilemma in what is applicable. We can only talk about whether the matter is transparent enough for the user or not. So I think that these concerns are not really justified, and I regret that we have now stopped at Article 2, because I think we have some amendments below, which are really more important, which would be subject to some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you, too. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Milan Cwickl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u54	First of all, of course, what Mr. Koren said. True; hope dies last. And all the things that my colleague just said before me: the state space plan overruns the municipality. True, but in long-term coordination. In coordination, which, of course, seeks to take into account the interests of citizens, the interests of voters and voters. I will now point to the case of the third development axis, what it will look like under the new law and where the problem of the proposal is so the amendment to Article 2 and later. See, the third development axis is supposed to run from the Austrian-Slovenian border towards the Croatian-Slovenian border, from Koroška, past Velenje and then, of course, either left to Celje or, if you want, through Trbovlje. And then to Trebnje and so on, until the connection, wherever we join the Dalmatians. And a major discussion in the Savini-Shales region between voters and voters is ongoing, whether the third development axis will run west of Velenje or run east of Velenje. East of Velenja some of the political parties associated with local policy have property and west of Velenja is the interest of the economy. Gorenje, thermal power plant, mine is west of Velenje. The entire Upper Savina Valley connects to this highway, fast road easier if it runs west of Velenje. And, of course, the great debate that is taking place in the Savinij-Shale province, which is why representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space said last week that unless a state decree is enforced, it will only be possible to put this fast road into space by 2010, 2011. And here the Minister of Environment and Space said, "No problem, the words of Mr Janez Janš will apply, we will put the road into space in 2008 if you adopt the Spatial Planning Act." And what's that gonna look like? It will appear that, of course, a state spatial plan will be prepared which will take into account the political will of local February to take the road east of Velenje, then you will pass coordination with the municipalities, accept it and say, "This is a new fast road, take it or leave it." This, gentlemen, is not democracy, this is purely a mere conduct and subjugation of partial interests, even economic interests you do not take into account here. The whole industry is west of Velenje. East of Velenje, however, if you want some construction plots of one construction company some private plots. And two tunnels have to work. This is a question of the new Law on Spatial Planning of the Amendment to this Article and to the previous Article. Second example, island, famous island. You will adopt a national location plan, make an island and place it among the municipalities, apologize, to the coast between Koper and Isola, and say, this is now a new building land, etc. This way to coordinate 34 major projects and to completely change without coordination with the municipalities of Slovenia, as we know it - this is not a development, this is a purely ordinary conduction from the cabinets. And that's what this marriage is about! It is not what someone said that the state spatial plans have not hit the municipal plans so far - of course they are, but after coordination! And the interest if I go back to the third development axis, the economy, the interest of the citizens is to get from Koroška, from the scarf, Savina region as soon as possible to the Ljubljana-Cele axis. Therefore, of course, the interest of everyone there is a Western variant. But no! This is where you open up space for the Eastern version. Tell me, honestly. At the end. Mr. Starman said earlier, we haven't found a solution to the amendment. Just say this, Members of the ruling coalition, to you after you have simply corrected an article stupidly or otherwise, you have written at the Ministry of Environment and Space. At least say that. I can't accept this kind of conductive development because it's not development. Development is more than investment. Development is an acceptable solution for citizens, which is also accepted by the economy. Not now, very interested in trying your answers, tell me you don't know that! You know exactly what I mean. Only those politicians who have made this public have already hidden themselves and are now either missing or already in Brussels. Mr Žiga Turk, who we appointed yesterday as Minister for Development, will do exactly that: adopt state-owned location plans for 34 projects and place them in a space irrespective of the availability of citizens and citizens. It's not a democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u55	Thank you. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You mentioned me at the beginning, Comrade Squeakle, right at the beginning. It's been a long time, so you must have forgotten, you said, "Boy in front of me." But even if you hadn't mentioned me, I think there have been so many indirect references and so many things in your implementation that are not exactly related to Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2, even things that are not related to this law at all. In such cases, however, it would be good to remind the debaters of the rules of procedure of this national assembly, because I think we will start to discuss here in a different way than in a market. Read the marriage first, then discuss it. What you're talking about is in the law. The public is very clearly involved, and the congregations are very clearly involved. In Article 33 of the Law, the title of the chapter is Community participation, it is very clear that at the time of the decommissioning of the national site plan, the drafter acquires the position of municipalities, not localities, municipalities, and, of course, the public, because all the plans, as so far as they are, have been made public. There's not something going on in some closed rooms or cabinets, just like you want to represent this story. As you represent things, and as you put things, if your views were taken into account, the real development in this country would stop. I think then only the papers would be translated from one table to the other and nothing would have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I haven't called back so far because this article doesn't seem important to me at all. However, as many murders as have been consumed by the gentleman in the first place, on my left, it's a little too severe. The fact is, if he says that the land is ready to be returned because the law says about the municipalities, not about individuals, then we know who the representatives of the municipalities, the mayors, and the municipal councilors are still employed in the congregation, that is to say that those there have parcels. However, I have not heard any specific mention, and it would be right if this gentleman simply named which representatives of the congregations have their own parcels there and wish to have a route there. On the other hand, there's something else I want to say here. That's the right thing to do. If I were not so far convinced that this content was the right thing to do, this gentleman would now convince me that it must be so. Because if we were to do what this gentleman thinks, then I am sure that everything that a colleague has already said in front of me would stop in Slovenia. According to him, we wouldn't even build a regular sock on a third-rate chicken farm. We couldn't even do that, because I'd stop everything because he sees fear in everything. And his purpose is to stop development anyway. And I am not surprised that in the last two years economic growth has now been as great as if everyone previously had had such development concerns from its option, but it has been blocked within them, and now it bothers them all if anything could be built anywhere. Dear Mr. Squeakl, I know you've been waiting for this, so I've also given you this opportunity to replicate. According to your view of development, we really couldn't build a single scorpion on any chicken farm, just like you look at it, with all due respect, Mr. Squeakle. In this way nothing could be done, and I simply do not understand why we would like to return to the Middle Ages, why you feel so comfortable there, if you oppose everything that smells of some possibility of development, of some normal course, and that there are congregations, not individuals, of the congregation. Because the municipalities are probably the most familiar in the field and are likely to be able to help in cooperation with government authorities if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u59	Thank you. No matter what your name says, we'd get a replica. Will you take advantage of the replica? Here you go, Comrade Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u60	It is clear that I am replicating Mr Petan first, and then I will also discuss it. Look, Mr. Petan, high economic growth is under the current law. High economic growth is due to what has been placed in space under the current law. But it is true that this has moved into space in a democratic way. I'm also replicating the returned services, the parcels, I wasn't talking about it. I said there was a Western version and an Eastern version. And that one political option advocates an Eastern version, the economy and so on for the Western version. And that this is even the position of the congregations. And the problem is that, of course, paragraphs 33 and 32 talk about the cooperation of the congregations. Do you know what congregation participation will look like? By sending comments and suggestions to the congregation, the Ministry will examine them and publish them on the website. This isn't a collaboration. It's just regular information, and the wagon goes on. An option will be adopted, which will only be politically accepted, not in dialogue, but in the subordinate role of municipalities in putting a fast road into space. That concludes the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, I now invite you to a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u62	My debate will mainly raise questions for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I want the Government here to respond to these questions, whether it will not be precisely because of the above-mentioned way of putting some investments into space but there has been a significant reduction in the quality of placement and finding the appropriate consensus of all those who are of course interested that the road is placed in the space in the most acceptable way. Whether there will be a decrease in this quality and which are the arguments, except to fulfil the promise of the Prime Minister that in 2008 this will be clear in Velenj or in the Sava region where this fast road will be, but, of course, in narration, this will not be decided in the 'democratic process', but in the process called 'perfect state coercion'. I'd like to ask if the government representatives can answer that. The fact that some of the Members have spoken is that of the old saying: when you step on your tail, the cats have wailed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u63	Thank you. And to my word, I invite Ambassador Martin Mikolić.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thanks again for saying that. Given that you have allowed the honourable Presidents, although the amendment is now on the agenda so that we can have a general discussion, I would also like to say a few words, I hope that you will not interrupt me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u65	Look, I ain't got nobody in front of you, and I ain't gonna see you either.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u66	See, for me, this law or this law will be good, if it means, I now speak as the mayor of one of the municipalities, that the local communities that will adopt certain acts will be required in future or municipal spatial plans to give the contractor at least half of the funds, such as these procedures or the highest half, as they have so far remained. The existing ZUREP was just the opposite of what I have just said, which, in view of the previous law, was a considerable financial burden for local communities. We all know that. And I am firmly convinced that this law simplifies certain things. That's pretty obvious from the law. On the other hand, it means that those who are urgently needed and not those who are not needed will participate in the adoption or drafting of these planning acts. And from this point of view, I welcome this law, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space. I will repeat what I have said in the general debate. Local communities, where local self-government has been working for 12 years, have done nothing on this segment, then it is sad, then it is really a big and important task before them. Secondly, I asked if there were any investors in the congregation or potential ones, as there was a need to change plans on this basis. We do know, however, that because of a certain interest in the different use of space, this is always happening in local communities, and some of the local communities have been complemented by spatial plans twice, three times, four times. And I will now be very disappointed if, once we adopt this law, it is necessary to re-implement everything in the local community. But that won't be necessary, it guarantees me this law. It is said that in those municipalities where the use of space is already defined and all potential users of these premises have a guaranteed certain space in the municipality, this will mean that this matter is only regulated on the basis of this law and is adopted on the municipal council. I'm not going to go into this state space plan now, because I think some of you were exaggerating. I don't think that's the theme of today at all. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] . All right, as well as building plots. I'm a little surprised when my colleague Squeakle first said he was a layman in this area, now he knows everything. When we're done, he'll probably have a lecture here in this National Assembly. Once again, what I said about Article 2 earlier, it is precisely because of certain speculations that I find it very good to put this into the State Spatial Plan, that this is not in Article 2. If we discuss for a while, perhaps others will agree with me, especially colleague Gantar, when he mentions or somehow ends or does not understand. In the end, I think we will all come to the realization that it is necessary to go from Article 2. You know, the congregations are losing nothing just under Article 27 and the amendment proposed. This was indeed lacking in the definition of this law, which is now written in the amendment, which I hope we will also accept. Let me get this straight. I think that the particular debate that has been going on here so far is mainly about the building law. And I personally expect a lot from this marriage. With regard to the rationality of the time-limited procedures and so on. I think that as far as the Law on the Planning of Spaces is concerned, it's settled here, and I don't think that's even the most important thing. However, the Law on Construction of Buildings, where it is true about the time, when you get permission, and when all the procedures that are needed and unnecessary, are really quite inappropriate for today. I hope that the Ministry of Environment and Space will make a major effort in the law, so that all investors will be able to get a suitable or necessary permit as soon as possible and that, as a result, this will also mean lower costs for investors in the acquisition phase, if I say so now, of the building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you, too. Replica, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u68	Of course, I am obliged to replicate to the Member because he misunderstood my statement. I said, "Yeah, I'm a layman for spatial planning." However, I am becoming very sensitive, and this is reflected in the amendments when you want to reduce the rights of local self-government through spatial planning, especially for people. That's when I get very sensitive! And my debate, of course, wanted to show, because we will continue to have an opportunity in the 84th and some other articles, how you violate some of the basic principles of the European Charter, the constitutions that those who have to have the same right will have the same scope of rights as the country when a compromise solution is sought. And you, of course, don't know the words "consensus," and the words "compromise" when you put space in this law, you don't know it and you actually turn it into conduction. And of course it's not democracy anymore, it's dirigism.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u70	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! I think it would be appropriate and hygienic for us to move forward slowly in Article 2, because I think we have quite a finish and we have actually had a general discussion on Article 2 and I propose that we move forward with the amendments. Comrade Squeakl, there will be enough debate through the other amendments that are in the procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you for your proposal. I am also joining you, but of course this is the right of every Member. And given that we left the right to the first speaker today, I will also leave it to the last one, so that no one will tell me to select individual Members. Again, I ask who wants the word and thus open the procedure. We don't have any applications this time, so I'm inviting a representative of the government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to discuss public participation, coordination with the municipalities and the role of the professional public in general. I would like to highlight two elements that differ from the current regime. The way in which the public is involved is regulated in this law as it has been so far. Cooperation with the congregations is defined more precisely than in the present law. What is also a qualitative contribution to the participation of the community and the public, is that the law incorporates a requirement resulting from a comprehensive assessment directive, as we call it, to the protection of the environment where alternative solutions are clearly required. If we link this to the requirement that State spatial plans are planned for the whole areas of the development regions, comprehensively all national arrangements at the same time, this is precisely what is a greater guarantee for a transparent process, a more comprehensive alternative solution and a public and municipal cooperation process. In short, from the present law we have strengthened this element in particular in order to bring legislation into line with the Aarhus Convention and at the same time to incorporate a system of comprehensive assessment into the spatial planning process itself, which is one of the most important parts of this evaluation. The process of finding a compromise, consensus, based on good practice so far and based on the new international obligations of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? We're opening the procedure. Here you go, please. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u74	Look, we stopped at Article 2, because this Article 2 has been amended by an amendment. The Government has not proposed an amendment to Article 2 of the bill. The government said nicely in the bill what building land is. This is a "parcel which is with a national spatial plan or a municipal spatial plan" and so on. So it's not a beauty repair. And that is why, Mr Janc, we have stayed with Article 2, because we are here to solve some conceptual things. Article 2 is, you know, a member of the definition. We are talking about the alphabet that we use below the law, so Article 2 is an important article. And this definition has been substantially changed by the amendment and allows for what I said earlier. Without cooperation with the congregations to do something like building land, only with "blah, blah", the will of the government. That's what this is about, with all due respect. However, we will, of course, be talking about some others, even more so with the general legislation on disputed provisions below.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I invite Member Borut Saiovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! Of course, as a mayor and a non-expert in this area, I am simply very much in favour of adopting a good and quality law, especially because I come from a middle where spatial acts have not been changed since 1999 and in some of the requested closets there are currently 500 applications and requests for change in this area. When I spoke to experts and colleagues yesterday, I said, but the law will be better, faster and more successful. And I have to say that most of the experts I had the opportunity to talk to just didn't support it. They say this is a matter that you have always stressed as politicians, you speak, but they have said, but tell us concrete facts that will make marriage better and more successful, and above all that we will make this process faster and cheaper. I am pleased that I am able to start this procedure alone as mayor, that I do not have to be dependent on the will and time of the congregation council, but the next steps are much less clear to me. If, for example, we touch on this detailed spatial plan, or if this practically means that once we adopt this spatial plan in the congregation, then we can, in the next steps, be able to, I will say, complement this endlessly with a detailed congregation plan. Is this also possible the advantage that we will have in the municipalities, or is it possible to assess at some time intervals that this spatial plan is now expected to be renewed and complemented in the case of ZUREP? So much for a start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u77	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I then conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the aforementioned parliamentary groups. However, I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application procedure. Member Willy Rezman has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I will start this debate, I hope it will be shorter than it was to the 2nd article, where there was a lot of breathing, and no real success after this marathon run. I would like to point out that both the law and this amendment are supported by me. This provision, which also tells me that spatial planning is in the public interest, seems very important to me. It is true that it has been introduced, for we know that in practice we have many problems with this and we pay dearly for these problems. Their resolution is that when a private interest is anchored so strongly that no public interest is part of it anymore. Thank God that the principle of the exercise of public interest over private interest is also enshrined in Article 7. But it's on a principled level. But when we go down to operational level, this law is no longer helpful. Then we have to go to another law and maybe it's one of the flaws of this law that we'll have to search through different laws so that we can put together a complete picture. Even more so, I feel that in some other laws they have already acquired the right to spatial planning. Perhaps not all were careful enough when we adopted the Law on Religious Freedom, but the Law on Religious Freedom lays down in Article 26 how space is planned. And he orders, so he commands planners to take care when it comes to planning, in particular, settlements, where they will live, to make sure that he sees to it what the interest of the church is, what their needs are, and that he plans to do so. This is not necessary for the first time, since we do not write for hospitals, nor do we write for children’s kindergartens. This is in spatial planning for those who have an interest and need when there is a decomposition where public debate, advertisements and their ambitions are checked. Even more ridiculous is the decision to make, and so we will have to do so because the law thus prescribes the number of members of a church or religious community. So the weakness of this law is that not all laws are drawn up in the palm of the hand and that some planning options are avoided or have already taken this right in another legislation, which does not have spatial planning according to my own exactly any relationship. This was also one of the reasons why I and my colleagues opposed the adoption of that law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Paul Gantar to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. On the committee, if you look at the magnetogram, I have highlighted in particular the criticism of the law the fact that the law does not contain an explicit definition that spatial planning and planning is in the public interest and in the public domain. I am pleased that the coalition MPs have corrected this with an amendment. If I did this, I probably wouldn't have been accepted or rejected. I hope that this will, at a symbolic level, mean some movement in the law. On a practical level, this innovation is running out. It is also true that it is not in the current law on space regulation, some mechanism: weighing the predominance of public interest, which modern modern laws already have. Among them, for example, the Public Information Access Act has its first such extensions. Unfortunately, the tailors didn't go that far, but once we change this law, we'll do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you, too. However, I invite Minister Podobnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Let me briefly tell you why the government thinks this amendment is good. First of all, I am pleased with the support of Mr Gantar as an eminent expert in the field of sociological aspects of spatial planning. Together, we can find that such a solution is in itself reasonable. But since we have seen and when the parliamentary groups and it felt in the debate that there could be other purposes in the bill-makers, we have said that there should be a possibility that what is really reasonable in itself, because it cannot be otherwise, because the state is adopting the law, that we should also write that spatial planning is in the public interest. This is a classic declarant solution, which nevertheless has useful and interpretative value in various procedures, because on many occasions however, it is necessary to explain, especially to owners, for example, where the municipality or the State is entitled to restrict the free ownership of certain spatial planning arrangements. They ask us when we're on the ground, say, citizens, citizens, owners of apartment houses, why my house has to be exactly this high and that kind of shape, but I have a different idea. Or, for example, when it comes to whether or not such a provision is important when it is implemented in the planning, regulation of interventions, sensitive interference in property relations. The most sensitive is decommissioning. And since spatial planning is exactly where the use of property is also ensured by its environmental function, I will say first, then I will say economically, and lastly social, although the order may be completely different, the proposal has therefore been made in place to re-write in the law one of the fundamental objectives pursued by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. I'm opening a new application circuit. We have two registered MPs. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u84	It was nice for the government to praise me with an unrelated MP, and I was already worried that this would not go too far. But let me remind you, Mr. Minister, the address of these articles is Spatial Planning Objectives. At the very least, it would be necessary to draft this amendment, namely that the objective of spatial planning is to achieve the full public interest, if we are already in management. Why did you so late write this down for the purposes of marriage? I suppose you will be able to defend that despite all the law through the adopted amendments directs the will of the State beyond the will of the municipalities. You say it is in the public interest that the congregations are subordinated. Here you are on weak feet, because the municipalities also represent the public interest of the citizens. And that's why two suggestions. First of all, I propose that they will already be able to editorially harmonise the third paragraph with the title of the article, which is the objective of spatial planning, and in particular the proposal that, if we confirm this Article, this amendment to Article 3, we should, of course, reject some other amendments which are contrary to this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you. I would like to supplement this position with that of my colleague Squill. We've had a long discussion and we've come to know and information that you can get a building permit on the basis of the State Spatial Plan, even if it doesn't have the land status of the building land, and that only then it becomes when the building is built. And finally, when we have to defend such a position, we will say, but this is in the public interest, although it was possible, I don't know, in the interest of the Government, the coalition, anyone, but, of course, a substantial longer time can be from the public interest. Perhaps we would consider even writing on behalf of the people, making it clearer, making a decision on behalf of the people and making the matter even more transparent.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you. I'm opening a new application circuit. Please. Member Zvonko Černač has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u88	I thought my colleague Squeaking would help when I gave him the marriage, and I was wrong. Obviously there was no time to read it in this short I heard, I don't know if I heard it correctly, it was said from his mouth that it was necessary to write in Article 3 that the objective of spatial planning was to achieve the full public interest. [[...]] Now, whether he said it in irony or "he was joking" or he was serious, I don't know. But I don't think that's it. And what is proposed with the amendment is not so. It is undeniable that spatial planning is in the public interest, however, it is necessary to respect what is stated in Article 3, paragraph 1, in order to enable the objectives to be consistent spatial development by addressing, addressing and coordinating the various needs and interests of development with public benefits, and it is also likely that it is indisputable. And first you talk for a long and wide half-hour about not writing it in the marriage, and then what you're saying for half an hour, you hit it with a short sentence. I think it's right that we start talking a little bit seriously about this marriage. And what is proposed by the amendment to Article 3 is correct, even if it does not, here is perfectly clear and understandable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u89	Thank you. Replica, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u90	My friend Chernač may have a problem understanding what he's saying. The title of this Article shall be Spatial Planning Objectives. And these are beautifully written in paragraphs one and two. Then, the third paragraph of the moon arrives from the moon, which says: spatial planning is in the public interest. But that's, as it's called, maybe a principle, maybe that's what I'd call a dictatorship, but that's certainly not the point. And you have more options, either edit the third paragraph or fix the address and you'd say "goals and principles of spatial planning". That's how it looks funny. If you are already writing amendments and, of course, you are writing that the added third paragraph exposes public interest in spatial planning, you could do so either in paragraph 1 or at least in the light of, I would say, a consistent form of the third paragraph, clearly amend Article 3 above. It was my well-intentioned remark that the laws would have a tail and a head.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u91	Thank you so much for explaining. Since I can see there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm asking for applications. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u92	I will not be anything particularly important, just so that we do not think that everything is so terribly wrong in this Article, because point 1 states what the objectives are, point 2 states what the spatial arrangements to be planned are, and paragraph 3 that follows all of this says that it is in the public interest of the private interest. So there's a certain logic to this, and I don't think there's anything that needs to be changed here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 3 and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the procedure. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. My article is understandable and logical. However, I do have, say, a substantive consideration, as well as a specific question for the Secretary-General or even for the Minister. Like landfills. With these in Slovenia we will undoubtedly have quite serious problems in the future, at least a five-year period, and there is no doubt that we will solve any of these things, including this state spatial plan. And in this story, I'm interested in the following. For example, the congregation from which I come has recently turned to the Ministry of Environment and Space to help us solve the problem, the embarrassment we have in Gorenjska, within this state-level location plan. Now there is a new law, a new spatial planning, or you see a case like a concrete burning waste dump, with this new law better and easier to solve. And what is the role of the local community like those living there, the role of the local community and the local community, in general, in the congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u95	Thank you, too. The text is by Ambassador Squeakl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. First, a brief thought to that famous 3rd article. Yes, the objectives are as follows and the result is the exercise of public interest. Perhaps the correct title of Article 3 is "Finishings and results of spatial planning". However, what is a problem and why I am announcing myself in Article 27 is that, contrary to Article 3, paragraph 3, spatial planning is in the public interest, a very simple fact is added here, which says that a State spatial act regulating State importance rules under the State spatial plan is simply the one considered to be amending the municipal spatial act. This is, of course, a total upgrade - a country without coordination accepts something and, as you have beautifully written down, is considered, otherwise I do not know this dictatorship, what is counted, is an Arabic, Roman and other number, which is considered to have been modified or supplemented by municipal spatial acts in part, etc. Let me tell you that the basic legal principle is that something that is accepted and established in, for example, a municipal publication applies. Now something will be published at the Ministry of Environment and Space or at the Government of Development Service and it will be considered that now, which the Government has decided to adopt by adopting the State Spatial Act, this has simply changed something that has not even been published in the municipal newspaper. I'm just giving you a sample. Several examples were mentioned earlier - the western, eastern variant of the fast road. Island, I'll give you a third case. Construction area of the Nato base of the Church in Dolenjska. Certainly, as the defense attorneys would call it, they are now well aware of the arrangements of state importance. Absolutely. It is necessary to include a state-owned, strategic, spatial plan, but people in the Churches of Dolenjska do not want to have a new Avian. They don't want it. If you want to have it, then I don't see any reason why you use a dictatorship where people can pass people's will it will simply be considered that then the base in Churches in Dolenjska is now placed in space. And as you say, from now on it will be considered that the implementation of the State Spatial Plan for NATO Base in Churches in Dolenjska will complement the municipal spatial act in the work relating to this area. So far they've been there, I don't know what they've been doing, there's been car races for so long, and the former bases of the Yugoslav people's army have been. Now it's going to count something else. But, I don't know, those of you who are major military experts and other issues, such projects are very large. Is that the right way, Mr. Secretary? Ljubljana. There are even some arrangements within the municipality of Ljubljana and the country, how to place, on which axis in Ljubljana, something is, of course, Tržaška, something around the Prešernov Palace, something, of course, behind Bežigrad, should be places where state institutions are newly concentrated. And for example, it is known that state institutions bring with them new jobs, but also a larger number of cars. That's why, let's say, one of the conditions in Ljubljana is that you can't build a bigger building without providing such or different parking space. This is an additional cost for the state budget. That is why, of course, the Government will be able to use, very simply, it will determine that this spatial arrangement of state importance will be included in the State Strategic Spatial Plan and, I don't know, in the Bežigrad area we will have 2,000 new offices without a single parking space. Another very important and interesting option for Ljubljana. It's just speculation, though. The great conflict in Ljubljana is also due to the fact that the new right-wing mayor and, of course, the right-wing coalition in the city's world will determine that in the area of the former Šentvid army, which has already replaced Erjavec's land, it will be built, as it is already called, by the second Vatican University. After the current dictatorship, if this becomes a state-of-the-art regulation and goes into the state strategic spatial plan, the left option in Ljubljana will not even be known about it in the city council. I live in Dravaje, and I don't care if there will be such a state strategic investment or not. So that we don't mention these issues because we're going to some area of conversation with another legal sovereign called the Vatican. Let's see, let's say, just a new spatial arrangement so that we can build five, ten thousand apartments in Stanezic. That is why, of course, there is a need for a new compulsory road along Sava towards Medvoda. And there are dilemmas where to put it, how to set it. One of the great reasons why the Šentvid tunnel will be more expensive is because of coordination with the municipal municipality to also arrange urban traffic, not only transit traffic through the tunnel. All this coordination is no longer necessary, but, as you said, it will be considered that the adoption of the State Spatial Plan has also changed the municipal spatial acts. I propose that we abolish the competence of municipal councils to assign and lay down municipal spatial acts at all and that all investments become state-owned investments in the State Strategic Spatial Plan. This, of course, you will and you want implicitly with the amendment to Article 84, but more on this. I apologize, but spatial planning is no longer in the public interest. Spatial planning is only in the national interest by adopting this amendment to Article 27 and certain articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u97	Thank you very much and I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u98	Thank you. I believe, and therefore publicly call on the Legal and Legislative Service, through a magnetic record, that the amendment to Article 27 does not fall within the scope of Article 27 at all, because it defines what the State Spatial Plan is; the amendment speaks entirely of another matter. In my opinion, once again, I am calling for the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendment to Article 27, which we are talking about, is in complete disharmony with Articles 32 and 33. The amendment to Article 27 is a directive and paragraphs 32 and 33 are an alternative.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u99	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. And I'm reopening the application. Please. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u100	"Only the shoes belong to the hooves!" It could be said after what we heard from my colleague's mouth. Not only has he confused everything that is written in this law, that he has done total harakiri among all the levels of these acts that we have in this law, that he has put under national plans what is not at all possible to deal with. He also allowed comparisons that were impossible and that life did not detect. And I will allow myself, according to what he was doing, to ask him the following: By this logic, as he himself represents, what would then happen. The state would have planned a highway, and a few years after this state plan was adopted, it would have designed a tennis court in that area and, I don't know, a housing complex or something. Is this the path you're defending, Comrade Squeakle, I'm asking you in public? Because what you're saying is exactly what you're saying! Anarchy, not making decisions, not making decisions, is called "status quo". According to you, the mud would still be dug in Logo under Mangrt, as you explain things and as you represent them. For you, some newspaper articles are based on your professional discussion at the National Assembly. That's not how it works! By entrusting you with a mandate, he has also given you responsibility. And you, I hope, are abusing her. You're abusing her with your discussions. These debates are underestimating and underestimating to those who have entrusted you with this mandate. Stop it, because this way of debate is not going anywhere. The amendment to Article 27 is perfectly clear. And even if he wasn't, he doesn't have to. That's right. It's just like the amendment says. The amendment is only here because the matter is clear, it is indisputable that there is no doubt about what, after all the acts in force in this country and beyond, it is. The way you explain things, everything will stop. One act is not going to get on paper, not to mention that some more stones have to be put together to make an object grow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, I invite you to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u102	I must say, my fellow Member, I do not understand. Look, don't discuss what Mr. Talio says. Discuss the content of this Article. Discuss whether the five projects mentioned can be problematic and discuss that, of course, development in Slovenia has not stopped so far. You'll see, we've built almost 500 kilometers of highway. Yeah, it's true. In Slovenia we even built a tennis court on the roof of the highway. In Slovenia we built a gym on the roof of the highway, in the Štutvice tunnel. Why don't you go take a look at it? Fully in line with all procedures. Only the interest of the municipalities was taken into account, the interest of the State was taken into account, and consensus was found. And one of the key features of democracy is finding consensus. This also takes into account that you are discussing the content of what the individual discusser is saying, but not that you are disturbed by who is speaking. Let's discuss "at drem" and not "at the staff." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you, Comrade Squeakle. I'd like to take the floor with you, Mr. Janko Vebra.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you. I would point out once again what I have tried to point out in the amendment to Article 2, but we appear to be in the specific content of Article 27. Article 27 speaks of the state spatial plan as the basis for the preparation of projects, for the acquisition of a building permit under the building regulations. Therefore, the building permit can, as explained, also be issued on the basis of the State Spatial Plan. This state spatial plan, when adopted, was automatically also covered by the municipal spatial plan. And given that the State Spatial Plan no longer lays down building, agricultural water land, it means that the municipality, in fact, in that area covered by the State Spatial Plan, no longer makes sense to think about some of its visions, its solutions, because it has been fully covered by the State Spatial Plan in a way that anyone at the state level would want to build an facility in the area of the State Spatial Plan, he will also be able to do so, he will build it. And this is the non-systematicity of this amendment that we have addressed, or this and the previous amendment, and unfortunately, I also need to find out the whole law. Let us decide whether we need state spatial documents in Slovenia and then accept documents for all solutions and give up the municipal spatial plans and talk about what we want to build, as the Government will decide, or at that time, the majority in the National Assembly, if this is the subject of a decision in the National Assembly. It does not go hand in hand with what is now stated in this law to determine the status of the building’s land, but on the other hand, the State’s spatial plan, for example, can determine a completely different matter or nothing at all. There will be major complications here, major problems, and I would like to point out once again that we need to think carefully about whether we need a state spatial plan in this law in such content as is envisaged if we want to maintain the role of the local community as such that its basic task of planning the use of space is to be maintained. At this point these congregations are definitely no longer when this amendment is adopted or when this law is passed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Podobnik to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I would like to briefly base four brief arguments on why the Government supports the proposed amendment. This is a classic amendment that just makes it clearer to write down a solution that is already written in the article or in the context of other articles. The strangeness of this debate is that in spatial arrangements, for example, the state importance is thus fully followed by the current ZUREP. There's no change. And sometimes there's a paradox that happens as an argument against quote and attacks solutions that apply and say they're good. We have preserved all the good solutions of ZUREP. That's the first one. Second. When I was listening to the magic show. The fairies and the mags. I've been practicing. I've seen this duality. It won't work both ways. A very clear question was raised by the mag. Saiovic, is there any chance that where municipalities cannot agree - the country enters from above, in some way forced, and in particular helps the municipalities to find a good location. For example, for the waste management centre. But if we were to go this way, it's against the position of a fellow Squeak, completely contradictory. He can't go either. Of course, I must say that it is always necessary to look at which legislation already exists. If we touch on the broader issue of waste management, we know that the law already in force on environmental protection imposes a subsidiary responsibility on the State if the municipalities are completely cancelled. But thanks to me as a minister, it is known that I have always offered the congregations my hand and helped where the country does not have to help. We were mediators. And in Gorenjska, I think we'll find a solution. Now I would like to say about this amendment, which touches on the relations of spatial acts. I would say in a very clever way just a fact which is already present in the law to write a little more clearly. Article 15 of the Act already makes it very clear that municipal spatial acts must not be contrary to State spatial acts or to the regional spatial plan. On the contrary, it was not explicitly specified what would happen to the spatial acts of the municipality on the date on which the State Spatial Plan was adopted for the same area. We know what the classic legal principle of derogation is for the hierarchically higher and later regulations to repeal the lower or the older. But this amendment only makes it more clear that the adoption of the State Spatial Plan has simultaneously amended or supplemented municipal spatial acts in work and for the area of state spatial arrangements. This makes the law of marriage more clear and clear. And the last amendment, the last justification for why the Government supports this amendment, is that a similar solution is also in that article of the law that speaks, I think is 65th or 66th, which speaks of the regional spatial plan replacing the municipal spatial plan in that part that relates to its planned spatial arrangements. And let us acknowledge that this is a rational solution, this is a good solution, for the municipalities will no longer need to amend or comply with their spatial acts after the adoption of the State Spatial Plan. So, what is written in the law anyway, in other articles, is written in this clear provision of this amendment only once more without a doubt. The government supports such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you, too. Replica, Comrade Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u108	I repeat to Mr. Minister, because what you said was a dilemma between us and Mr. Saiovic is an artificial dilemma. If two congregations cannot agree, mediation is the right way, not conducting. You can't come from a regional centre, which is an investment in the Mediterranean to solve the problem, say, but now it's a state investment, cutting it off with a state investment in it. No, Mr. Minister, if the two municipalities can't agree on something, it's the path of mediation. Not change the law, where you'll make all the investments state-owned.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this in connection with Article 27 and the amendment? Secretary of State, Mr. Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you very much. I just wanted to add to this that the practice so far, and precisely because of the division of power between the municipality and the state in the area of spatial planning, has led the municipality in its territory to have comprehensively regulated in its acts, and this has led to the fact that when the State's location plan or state plan was adopted, it has to be copied into its act and it has been time and otherwise redoubled, and perhaps even errors and problems in unregulated cadastral, for example, matters. The matter is only clearly defined here because it is also published in various documents. The national plans are published in the Official Journal, while the municipal plans are in local official documents and there is also a legal error to which they can be made. And that's all there is to it. With regard to coordination and what arrangements are of national importance, however, the nature of the arrangements must be based on. The nature of the arrangement when we talk about landfills is within the jurisdiction of the congregations. In fact, it is the best solution, and it is past the law if we can say that both congregations and people living in the area agree before there is a specific placement in the space. This is the optimal solution in these cases. However, it is a fact, as an extreme "ultimation", which is not only dependent on the state's competence, but that we are primarily responsible for the EU's visa on certain environmental matters. And there are certain conditions that need to be met if this does not happen in time, including our obligation in terms of European law, so you must have instruments that, under certain conditions and of course, under the will of the municipalities, you only intervene in an exceptional way and it is also regulated when the State's subsidiary responsibility for municipal arrangements arises. Once again, the law is just a tool, an instrument that enables different operations that respect the procedural rights of all involved. And this tool needs to be used in the most appropriate and appropriate, both professional and otherwise, way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you, too. With your debate, I conclude the debate on Article 27. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS. Anybody want to talk about it? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the same three parliamentary groups, namely SDS, NSI and SLS. Does anyone wish to discuss this article and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing Article 35. We open Article 36 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS. Anybody here want to discuss this? [[Not at all.]] We're closing the article. We open Article 36a and the amendment of the same three parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS. I see it's a desire to discuss it. I'm opening the application procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues and, of course, also sincere congratulations on Slovenian Maritime Day. But Mr. Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. If we look at the contents of Article 36a, then we can find that we are needlessly burdening the text of this law on the fact that we have a national strategic spatial plan, that we have a national spatial plan, that we have a regional spatial plan, that we have a strategic municipal plan, that we have a municipal spatial plan. This article refers to the possibility for the Ministry and the participating municipality to agree to plan and adopt a spatial act for a specific spatial arrangement. So even though you already have a system built, then there's just one article that says you can make a deal with the Ministry and adopt an act that isn't even state, it's not regional, it's not local, it's a joint act. You take him in and you take him out and you have some sort of spatial solution, I believe, saved by this article. I think that the whole law should also be simplified here, so that we really do not need all these documents that I mentioned earlier, but we have one article in which we write that the state and the municipalities agree and adopt one common act. And there will be all the dilemmas that we had resolved before. This article, once again, is completely non-systematic with everything that is being achieved in this law. In addition to all the acts defined both on national and regional level, there is another common act that is not, in fact, defined anywhere, exactly what it is, and is an act for which the municipalities can agree. I think that this is also one of the non-systemic solutions that will lead to major confusion, what kind of spatial acts we will have in Slovenia at all. Now, the amendment itself to this article 36a even speaks of the fact that the mayor of each municipality can directly agree with the minister and say, "We will adopt a joint act." There's no need for the municipal council to be informed. Despite the fact that I am the mayor, I object to such a solution, because it seems to me that this is a very serious intervention in important spatial solutions, that the municipal world must be informed of such a, I would say, a sudden intervention into a space that could arise on the basis of this act, which has not been foreseen anywhere in the law so far. All of a sudden, you run into this act, and the mayor of each municipality can agree with the minister himself to adopt a specific spatial act through all the others who are responsible for what is happening and how it is planned in space. I would like to draw attention to this solution, which, in my view, is really not right and good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Please, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u115	Just for a little while. The amendment is editorial in nature, a pure editorial in the amendment because it is linked to other articles. But I'd like to say the following about the content itself. It is already in force in law and on the basis of a regulation that the State may authorise the municipality to adopt a spatial plan for an investment, a project of State importance. This has already been the case in the current ZUREP and in the current regulation and several Slovenian municipalities have decided on this path in the last year and a half. Especially those with high investment objectives. And this one turned out to be very good. We recaptured it, and I think it's the right solution. That's the current solution. The solution that proved to be good, I suggest you don't attack her because she's good. Only a question is raised on the committee, express support that, however, the initiation of this procedure can be done by the mayor. Finally, the congregation council accepts this. I think that's a good, rational solution. I am sure that she will receive very much support from the Members of the National Assembly. It was adopted unanimously on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since I'm still seeing your hands up, I'm reopening my application. Please sign up. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think that what Mr Weber said before me, including the mayor, the MP, is difficult to understand such opposition to article 36a of the amendments. After all, we are talking about a faster process, a simpler process and, in fact, this is because we are talking all the time about how to simplify, speed things up, etc. In short, you speak one word and the other, it's not good, the Medo-Chinese world - it says contradictory. If the mayor of the municipality responsible is directly elected, however, he has certain powers, and so ends up giving the municipal council. Makes sense. What's wrong here? Nothing. We're speeding things up because unfortunately it hasn't been done so far and the procedures have been too long and we haven't come anywhere. This is the goal of law as soon as possible, and this is the goal of each congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, do you have a replica or will you wait for the next round? Good. Then it's mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u119	Let me remind you, the distinguished mayor, Mr Janc, that the municipal council was also directly elected. [[The ad in the hall.]] No, no, no. But you know, this desire for simplification is so - there are also quick courts. This desire to simplify me worries me. And this is a very simple matter: let anyone other than the saints of the congregations involved, of course, if we already have a special procedure, do so. No - just the mayors! I propose that we abolish the saints, and that the mayors of the ministry deal with all matters of spatial concern, according to this logic. This is a matter for the Ministry. When this article is implemented, do we need it at all for spatial planning in the region? Do we even need regions when paragraph 36a is applied? Why am I saying that? You know, one of the reasons why we have regions is to harmonise common interests in the region. But just as it is now, because it is a plot in article 36a, some act of common importance, arbitrarily, medo-činically, when you enforce it, or even -- that is the question, Mr Minister -- we need regional legislation. I don't think so. Only then, of course, is this not even constitutionally consistent. Unless you assume that this article 36a is already the first amendment to the provincial legislation resulting from the amended Constitution, as adopted in relation to the establishment of the provinces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. I can give my word to the Secretary of State right away. Starman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you very much. See, the question of the possibility that certain state arrangements are planned by the municipality is the possibility that the existing law has, and above all, what is more important is that this is one of the ranges of options. This law is generally designed to give me the opportunities that both the congregation and the state have, as well as the inter-ethnic cooperation. In short, this option is established now and arises only when a certain arrangement of State importance is focused on the territory of the same congregation; you simply cannot have any other arrangement. And, of course, the procedure is carried out in accordance with the ordinary procedure for the adoption of municipal acts, while at the same time taking into account all the guidelines of all national rules on this route. In short, we have some cases where, at the same time as the preparation of municipal plans for the areas, state spatial plans are being implemented simultaneously, and there remain certain areas where the municipality can resolve a certain regime of national importance more qualitatively and more quickly at the same time as its arrangements. And there is no reason, no one in this process is deprived, the procedural rights of all participants are the same, the legality of this work is protected by both the municipality and the country and the final result is something that has been regulated in this area. Meanwhile, when we talk about regional solutions; regional solutions under this law are still a matter of inter-ethnic agreement. Regional solutions, while we do not have institutionalised authorities at regional level, are no other option than an agreement between municipalities. This encourages the State to operationalise this regional plan, which can also result in a building permit replacing municipal plans aimed at, above all, drawing on European funds. In short, once again, the law is an instrument and this is one of the instruments that can be used in accordance with all procedural safeguards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please listen to me very carefully. I don't want to play law enforcement. Are we talking about the decision to initiate the procedure being taken by the mayor or the mayor? As far as this is concerned, the decision to initiate the procedure - for God's sake, do not write the amendment's drafters, not "accept it", but "issue it" if it is later adopted by the spatial plan or by the municipal council. Dictation is completely wrong. The municipalities involved or "the municipality shall plan such spatial arrangements in accordance with the decision to initiate the procedure" in which the amendment states "adopted by the mayor". He doesn't accept, "the mayor or the mayor." However, if it is accepted, I can also read "adopt a spatial act", but if the mayor accepts it, then the municipal council does not talk about it. Please correct the dictatorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you. So in my debate, I made it very clear that if we adopt such a solution, then we needlessly burden this law with national spatial, strategic plans and other local plans. That's what I'm talking about. This is an agreement between the Ministry, the State and the local community, we adopt a joint act and close all other issues. That's what I'm talking about. The fact is, however, that the decision itself, if I refer to the amendment, is very important about the initiation of the procedure. The decision to initiate the procedure itself, the preparation of this common spatial act shall specify the content of this act. This is very important. At the same time, what the Secretary of State has said that this Joint Act will be adopted either by the procedure for the adoption of the local plan or by the procedure for the adoption of the State plan is not reflected in this text. The procedure for the adoption of this act is not defined, it is not envisaged anywhere, so that a foreigner is in this content of the law and if we are already going in such a direction as to rationalise the procedures, then let us put in this thesis, from this common spatial act then develop all the procedures. Unfortunately, this act has no defined procedures on how we will accept it, how we will take it and lead it to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Is there any other desire to discuss it? Please, then at least formally support the application. And the Secretary of State signed up. Secretary of State, you have the floor. Mag. Starman, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much. That's all I want to say is that the purpose was exactly what I was talking about. If it is eloquently unclear that and a clear reference to the course of course being followed by the procedure set out in the preceding chapters when it comes to municipal planning, it might be helpful to consider that a minor correction can be made. But the purpose is perfectly clear, the regulation is known and runaway, it is also meaningful in relation to the implementation of regional legislation and it is one of the steps. However, I agree that he may be a bit of a problem in a certain text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much. My colleague Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I'd just like to talk to my colleague Cwickle, before he dared me - now he's accidentally making a phone call - about the mayor's jurisdiction. I don't know why some people are so afraid of the mayor's responsibilities, somehow you don't trust, the worse experience, I don't know, the fear of what the mayor will do now. You know, the mayor puts bills every four years in each municipality in elections and directly. And, of course, that's where he decides whether or not he did something or didn't do anything. And if he didn't do anything, they'll definitely throw him down the track. So this fear is completely unnecessary so that at the beginning of the procedure you could not go with the mayor's signature, the conclusion. However, I support Mr Barovic's initiative that this dictatorship can be rectified more precisely so that it is clear what that first process is in this part of this article and then what is final, so that it is also understandable to those who doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'd like to continue here where my colleague ended up. I think the matter is clear. Only the last part of this first paragraph, which speaks of the initiation of the preparatory procedure, shall be changed. This authority is linked to the mayor or the mayor, but not only to reception, I think the article makes it very clear that we know who accepts spatial acts, these are the councils of the congregation. Speaking of which. It is simply a matter of sharing responsibilities and responsibilities as everywhere, where more institutions are involved in the process, more bodies where each part of the responsibility is given. It's normal for them to share that responsibility. It is abnormal, for example, on Friday we will discuss a proposal where someone is a proposer, a body, an institution is a proposer, but another body has a constitutional right to decide on it and there is no agreement here. This is insane, and it's not right. Throughout this whole act, throughout this whole law we follow negotiation, coordination, and this is the only right way. This is why these conflict situations cannot occur because the spirit of the law is set in this direction, but it is normal that there should also be sanctions for where, for such or other reasons, there is also, after repeated coordination, no agreement. I think the article is clear, and so is the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss this article and this amendment? I'm reopening the application. Please. Mr. Sok, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u133	Thank you very much. There's only one sentence I'd like to add to that. It seems to me that the matter is not as simple as my predecessor presented it, because if the mayor takes a decision to initiate the procedure, then, of course, he assumes that the municipal council will then eventually adopt the content of the spatial plan. What happens in the case, and there are few such cases in Slovenia when the municipal council does not accept something that the mayor has proposed? So here we can quickly come to some contradiction and, in fact, such a solution as this requires very intensive and strong cooperation between the mayor and the municipal council. Of course, it must be said that in practice this is not always the case and not everywhere. This would, of course, apply if the municipal councils elected mayors in our country, because both the municipal council and the mayor are directly loved, but of course we have the situation that we have. This should be done to ensure that we do not end up with some contradictory decisions through legislation. So, from experience, I'm telling you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I can see the hands are still up, so I'm reopening the application. Thank you. First, I'd like to give the floor to Minister Podobnik, if I may, and then to you, Comrade Cernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u135	Just for a little while. This is about the mayor's risk, and it's right. Apparently, the mayor will already be able to assess which development initiative he will propose for this journey and, if he is a good mayor, he will also convince the municipal council that he will join the good municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The distinguished colleague is the mayor and knows that for all activities he must have plans or planned items in the municipal budget adopted by the municipal council. For such an act too, it is necessary to have the funds provided, whether approved or not by the municipal council, and there is no problem here. If there is no money in the budget, it will not be possible to adopt this decision. So these relationships, I think they're very clear and you don't have to complicate them at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm opening a seventh round of debate. Please sign up. My colleague Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much again. That's what Comrade Sok said. But it is also true that if there is no cooperation between the mayor, the mayor, the municipal council, local communities and others in the environment, then there is no story of the success of the development of a congregation. It's a condition. For every story, it's a condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u141	I am very pleased with this discussion between the Government and Members of the ruling coalition. Here I agree, Mr Janc, both with you and with Mr Soko - every story requires cooperation between the mayor and the world. It is therefore right for this decision to be adopted by the Council and not just the mayor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you. Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u143	Yeah, I'm having trouble with the whole article, this ministry knows. However, I would say this: if it is already this article, then I do not think it is contrary to the spirit of local self-government that such a decision is taken by the mayor or the mayor. However, I would improve this text by proposing a supplement in the third reading - you will propose it, I cannot - to "accept the mayors or the mayors and inform the municipal council or," even better, "after the prior consent of the municipal committee responsible for the space." This would be an elegant solution, which I think is acceptable and in line with the spirit of local self-government. In the third reading, we could do so, and in my opinion it is really unnecessary to burden the congregation council at this stage. The municipal council will have the powers given to it by the State, whatever it may give it, in the next stages - if you have already decided to do so; of course, such an article alone would not be decided at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Please, I'm reopening the circle. The first one has the word, Mr Kokalj.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u145	In doing so, I would point to only one possible dilemma that could arise - the consistency of this law with the Law on Local Self-Government. In fact, if a quarter of the municipal council demanded that the municipal council be convened at a certain point of the agenda in the event that this authority was given to the mayor at the beginning of the procedure, the municipal council was thus relieved of certain powers. And this question needs to be examined whether this law is consistent with the intent of the Law on Local Self-Government. In this way, the municipal council is taken into account the possibility of initiating the spatial plan procedure itself in accordance with the powers it now has.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolić has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to add a little freshen up from the past. As far as I know, the preliminary legislation gave this authority to the municipal council. The Municipal Council adopted a decision on the initiation of the procedure, the last legislation imposed this on the mayor and I do not know, I do not know that there would be any problems in this regard. However, given that this Article 36a mainly refers to spatial acts which will be of national and regional importance. In particular, from this point of view, I agree that this is the mayor, given that certain acts need to be adopted within a certain period of time. We know what problems we have in some municipalities where we are co-founders of certain institutions, if I may say so, when we appoint directors, when it is necessary to give consent within a month, and when it comes to six or ten municipal councils. However, as has already been said by many here, cooperation between the mayor and the municipal council must be primarily on the investment segment. If there's no cooperation here, that's how it's all upside down. That's how I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you very much. And Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u149	I'm going to point out again what I said because it looks like I wasn't well understood. I don't really see any problem here. However, I see a problem if it were to be written differently or if it would remain as it is now, I see a particular time problem. The problem that we are addressing with this amendment is in particular a time component, a faster way to reach a decision, but otherwise the municipal council and the mayor are involved in this provision in such a way that, without placing these acts or this act in the budget, it is not possible to adopt this decision, which we give the mayor the authority to take, and finally, at the final stage, of course, this act is decided by the municipal council. Thus, there is no fear of anyone having too much or too little authority, and what follows with the amendment is only a rational way to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anyone else? For the sake of order, I'd like to reopen another application, with no intention of stimulating you. Thank you very much. First Minister Podobnik and then two other colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. This argument about rational spending of time is important here, but we have said, for the price of quality or the decisions themselves and also for the democratic nature of the process. Here I would like to remind you of the interestingness of the genetics of this solution. The government proposed to do so by the Municipal Council, and then at all meetings with all the associations of the municipalities and in the State Council and the Committee on the Environment, you proposed -a mayor. This is the solution that is still in force. This solution is now in the law in force. I think it's good, and I suggest we confirm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I also support the proposal he has proposed, and I have enough empirical experience on why this is smart and wise. What has already been said, or is true, is that if the mayor is to make a decision about it, he must take a decision because the finances are behind it, into the municipal council, and even that is not necessary. In theory, mayors may have the right to have a virmanic power to transfer certain funds from one item to another, so that they also assume this responsibility. It's probably not the mayor's wish because they're taking responsibility for it. It is simply a necessity that, if we do not take this into account, investments are put off, planning, investments are put off, there are some unnecessary costs and, of course, everything is moving away, which is not what citizens and citizens want, for example, in a certain area that they need. For example, I give, say, in Maribor there is a large water supply system, which I think covers 15 or 16 municipalities, and before we do all these congregations, all the committees that need to meet first, and then perhaps there is some disharmony between one of these municipal councils, then we can never accept such a location plan. But we need water.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you. And Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u155	Perhaps just for refreshment, probably present in the National Assembly, if you remember when we repaired the regional development agencies. We used to have a board of directors, etc., and it didn't work out so well. Today there are members of the Council of the Regions, mayors, I think the mayors are responsible for the development of the region, their municipalities and, of course, they are easier, faster and more effective. And it turns out, in my opinion, that this model that was repaired in the National Assembly is extremely positive. Another similar model is the appointment of the parishioners. Who's responsible for their team if not the mayor? The mayor calls it, rather the municipal council. These are the right steps in the right direction, because ultimately the responsibility for this is the only one and the one responsible is the mayor. And these are two models that are good. This third one, I think, is also more appropriate for the mayor to start taking this story with a team that, of course, then judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Then I conclude the debate by 36a. the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss this article? Nobody. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. There's no desire to discuss it either, so I'm closing it. I am putting to the debate Article 42a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] I'm sorry. I looked too fast. [[...]] I'm formally opening the application. Please sign up. Dr. Gantar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u157	I have to warn you here. Here is the amendment to the article itself, which is being amended. I think this article is a very professional nonsense because the urban plan is the professional basis of the municipal spatial plan. I haven't seen that in any textbook, in no theory. I've read a lot of books, and I don't want to brag about it, but that the urban plan is the basis of a spatial plan, and I've never seen that before. These amendments were aware and have now changed slightly, but the urban planning is still at the heart of all planning, especially urban planning, clearly, still at the heart of all of this. I would warn you of professional nonsense and professional error, and that can't be the case. If that's the case, it'll be very funny, easy to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you very much. This amendment is an important amendment. I would like to say why the Government supports the amendment of the three groups of Members. At the presentation of the urban plan as one of the central innovations in municipal spatial planning, there was often, we can say, a misunderstanding of its role and nature. This amendment solves this issue, which is conceptual or professional. Thus, in this amendment, the members of the groups have drawn up a previous dictatorship, after which the urban planning set out certain content, which means that such a solution is implied that the urban plan has the nature of a spatial or legal act. The purpose of us law-makers was not to make urban planning a spatial act. Therefore, we believe that it is right to abandon this amendment and replace it with one which shows that the urban plan is the basis, to highlight the basis on which the strategic and implementation content of the municipal spatial plan in the area of cities or settlements of urban character and settlements which will also become so due to the expected development. However, if you look very closely at this amendment, in the second paragraph, "for the implementation part of the municipal spatial plan for these settlements", an additional content is prescribed, in addition to the one referred to in the third paragraph of Article 38. This additional content is needed because of the specificity of the space in such or these settlements, because it is usually more complex and also necessary and requires more content. It also changed with the amendment the title of the article. We estimate this is the right path. For if, until now, the urban plan also defined the professional basis, this amendment corrects it. The urbanist plan thus preserves the nature of the basis, but not the professional one, because the professional basis for the already long-standing practice of regulating space has meant something else. Above all, this is a solution that goes more in the direction of the philosophy of the law, by which we do not prescribe professional grounds with it, but the decision for their everyday selection depends on the author of the spatial act. Therefore, once again, the term 'base', which is still retained, is understood mainly in the nature of the work step, the procedural instrument, in the preparation of the spatial municipal plan, which provides for additional, more complex treatment of the space for cities and settlements of urban character. That is why the proposed amendment is supported by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss this? Then I'll reopen the application. Please. The first or apparently only one has the word Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u161	For a little while. That's exactly what this is about, Mr. Secretary. I suggest you actually make a mess of the end and simply talk about urbanist grounds for strategic implementation of the urban settlement plan. That's it. The urbanist plan is in history, theory and professions a clearly defined element and has legal and other implications. You're confusing the concept. These are urban grounds, one of the bases, there are still countless others. And I don't know why you're making this up right now. Very simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you. Well, I find it extremely problematic that we are already working on an urban plan in the strategic part of the spatial plan, because then we have an implementation plan and a detailed spatial plan, for example, we have within the municipal spatial plans. And we're already going to strategically with an urban plan. I don't get along with this stuff right now, and I don't think it's a good solution either. Therefore, in my view, the text of this amendment should be deleted below.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u165	See, once again, we would like to point out in particular that the ambition to give the law an opportunity, a range of options, and to provide legal clarity that ultimately results in a meaningful, clear and logical municipal spatial plan in view of the adaptability of the individual municipality. The urban plan is true - it is very much presented in the professional circles what it means and also has legal implications as a separate spatial act. That's why we've been looking for a compromise solution, which, like a red thread through the entire law, is that we don't burden municipalities with mandatory new acts that need to be adopted, but it's the only mandatory act and everyone else is optional. The only mandatory act is the municipal spatial plan. This is the only mandatory act, so the strategic part is optional, so the detailed part is optional, while the urban plan as a procedural commitment to reach a legal path in the space within the meaning of the settlement regulation units is the commitment that the municipal spatial plan maker must make. And it's more than an expert basis, because we know what professional grounds are based on current practice. In short, one more time. We are plagued by some consistent notion that we want to bring into one simplified but yet fully binding system. Therefore, this discreet person should be a separate act between the plan which, by the nature or nature of the practice so far, should be a separate act and the plan as an instrument that regulates the entire settlement in a comprehensive and professional manner. In short, it is a compromise solution that does not double, does not make any obligation in additional legal acts or mandatory professional bases, but also legally defines what must be regulated for a settlement in the municipal spatial plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I see that there are no more applications, so I am closing the debate on Article 42a and putting to the debate Article 45 and the amendment of the Social Democrats Group. Please sign up. Mr. Weber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u167	Thank you. Well, one of the features of this law is that it extremely restricts the expansion of settlements, which is the basic objective of this law. We point out that the desire for development is extremely present in all municipalities and that these wishes must be followed and, if there is no rational option in the settlement itself - this is what our amendment speaks of - areas outside the settlement are determined for this purpose. In fact, in the settlements itself, we often face very big problems of co-ownership, irregular ownership, short-term inter-neighbourly disputes; a whole series of problems are before you can conduct a procedure for either regulation or even the construction of a new facility. And Article 45, as it is, extremely restricts interference outside the area of the settlement. I think we should really have a chance here, too, once we find that there are no rational solutions within the settlement, that we are also spreading this settlement outside the settlement itself. On the other hand, I would also point to the fact that there are settlements in municipalities that have been vacant for decades, either because of historical decisions - and how the congregation will then plan new settlements. Whether it will go first and have to plan after this dictatorship a settlement in that former settlement, which is far from, I would say, transport and other infrastructure arrangements, and this municipality will have many problems that it will be able to plan a new settlement in its area, because it will first have to take advantage of existing ones, but they are in very inappropriate locations, and, as I said, have been abandoned for decades. Therefore, it seems to me that it is very important that this amendment be adopted and allowed the municipalities to plan their spatial arrangements in the way they think is the most rational in that area.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The content or purpose of this amendment in relation to areas outside the settlement is already resolved by the Government in Article 6 of the bill and therefore does not support the proposed amendment by the Government. In fact, spatial arrangements and interventions to the premises for the purposes of resettlement or other activities are permissible, the law provides, when and in what way, within the framework of the enlargement of the settlement, under the conditions laid down in the proposed law. And this can be planned within the framework of the current law by means of a spatial act of the congregation. Therefore, in our view, this amendment is neither necessary nor supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, it is probably best to open another application, because the replicas are limited to three minutes. Check-in is on. Thank you very much. The first one has the word, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you very much. This is an amendment that somehow speaks of the need to be weighed between the profession, among some professional solutions, including, say, this public interest that urbanism should pursue, and among other interests: among the interests of local communities, including private interests. I think this proposed amendment is a little too wide, too extensive. I think that it "pulls" everything else to give too much priority to just one of these interests, as stated in this proposal. For the diction to add an 8th point for the purpose of moving is so broad that it is virtually impossible to limit. And I think that we must be realistic here and that we must also respect some other principles that should be followed by this spatial planning, despite the fact that I understand what my colleague Weber was trying to say. The question is whether these exceptions to the general rule laid down in Article 45 and added to the Committee, those interests which the SD Group wishes to pursue by this amendment to Article 45, are satisfied or not. That's the only question. In my opinion, they are. Because if we read this article as it is written here and these exceptions set out here in the seven points, in conjunction with Article 46, which defines the areas of dispersed settlement, I think that this intensity is extensive. On the other hand, we do not overwhelm some professional solutions, some public interest, so that, when I say banally, we can reach out to anyone anywhere. Because this proposal is, I must say, a little too wide, it's a little too rough. I cannot personally support him from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you. I think you're right, Mr. Minister, the third paragraph of Article 6 clearly defines "if enlargement is not possible, it can be..." And if it's already defined there, I don't see any obstacles at all, because in the two points of Article 45, it's the amendment that this amendment is adopted, because it's precise, it's more precise than Article 6, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u175	Yes, indeed, Article 6 states what colleague Barovic has found before me. However, I would point out that Article 45, as stated, may prevent the implementation of Article 6. Because this 45th, however, makes it very clear, "outside the settlement areas", tourism, agriculture, forestry and so on, local public infrastructure, and is extremely binding and restrictive for the expansion of settlements. So it seems to me that by Article 45, we will destroy the interest of Article 6. However, if this amendment is adopted, but also Article 45 is compatible with Article 6, and in any event it is a moment when that rational option occurs or when there are no other solutions within the settlement, then you can only intervene and form a solution outside the settlement. So this amendment touches this issue and it doesn't just go "ad hoc" to a new village.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you. Well, I think this amendment is too wide. You know, this amendment can say huge or nothing. And in the final stage, it can cause major problems for local communities. See that if there are no more rational options or, as you wrote in the explanatory notes, there could be an area outside the settlement. Yeah, where? Look, we're talking about building land within a settlement and what's outside a settlement that isn't actually building land. And if there's a settlement area, there's going to be these problems, as you mention them, or whatever the argument is. That's how I picture it. If the congregation no longer has to do so, of course, it will be necessary to do a demographic analysis and everything else, the possibility of building or moving, and it will be there to change or enforce this change in the area’s plans. And at the final stage, I don't see any problems that then the settlement or the settlement outside the settlement would not spread. But that means then this settlement will grow. Now that we accept this amendment - probably, colleague Weber, do you know what this means for the local community? To have a potential citizen come, he'll say, and I'd be building a residential facility here because I've got a problem there, but the one who's 50 meters away is coming. We now have cases like this when we have some in the PUPs defined; yes, and 30 meters outside the settlement is also possible construction in another agricultural area. On the best agricultural land, it is not possible there, which is also questionable today, and it is now reopening this amendment. I certainly will not support it precisely because of what some have already found to be an overly defined area. Once again, he can say a great deal, but he can say nothing and only open up great problems for those in the congregation who deal with the environment and space. I'd do it again. I don't know, at least some of you think as if the congregation would adopt a spatial plan or what it's called, and this will be over for the next decade or ten. We know what needs will be for the future, and certainly - spatial acts will need to be amended, complemented. Above all, I think that when this stage comes to pass, we are talking in particular about the location plans for a particular new settlement, which is actually already in force. But in spatial plans it is necessary to define: for this part it will be necessary to draw up a location plan - if we are talking about new settlements with 30 or 40 individual houses. At least that's how I explain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. The first one has the floor as Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you very much. I would just like to put this in this context, which we have previously touched, a urban plan. The story of how we design settlements in the most rational or most appropriate way is the urban plan. The only condition of the urban plan is comprehensive treatment. And it is through comprehensive consideration that the congregations are allowed, and this will also be at the very first stage of the preparation of congregation plans. Our guide is that the first time we prepare the urban planning, we also need to define this reserve development space. Then there were no more obstacles that had been so far, when after the cuts, the purpose of initiatives, individual initiatives, on the one hand, all the state institutions that had protected each of their departments had already opposed it because they felt threatened in that protective function, and at the end of the time the congregation was developing at a worse stage. The intention of this regulation is, developmental space - yes with the only condition of comprehensive planning. This is what comes with the conditions required by the urban planning. This needs to be seen in this context, not in the context of partial settlement upgrades, but in one visionary review of what kind of settlement we have, how we plan to develop it. In any case, the congregation must have a spare space just to attract investment to attract people - for housing and for other purposes - and not to adapt and change later when someone happens to get there. This is the meaning of this connection: on the one hand, focus on settlements and on the other hand the integrity of planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Although this amendment is attractive and well - intentioned, it is good for many congregations with such major problems of settlement expansion. But I'd be acceptable if there weren't for Article 6, which clearly says, "If that can't be done..." I think it's enough for every planner to read clearly to the end of Article 6 and these three or four paragraphs, then tell you there that it's possible that this amendment is a bit too much, I'd say, in this case, and you don't need it. Although there may be some concerns related to this article that we are currently considering, I do not see any reservations here. Although I would say, as mayor, I like it that day in and out and that you have some kind of latitude, a possibility. But that's already the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u183	I myself have been thinking about whether we are too limited in our ambitions after development or not. And when I read the various articles and this amendment, I judge as follows. There's something to be said at the starting point. Those of us who feel that there is also a need to be rational with regard to the environment, with regard to nature, the protection of the land and so on, we are inclined to limit irrational construction and to limit excessive enlargement. However, we do not want to be fully committed to each other, so that perhaps these efforts to preserve development have been halted. But when we read the second article, its 11th point, we'll see that this 2nd paragraph in the 11th point already defines what the settlement is. And the settlement is apart from what has already been built - and perhaps other white foxes within what has been built - also defined that these are the areas of the area envisaged for enlargement. Of course, if there is no rational prospect for enlargement, then it would be really too anarchic to allow any entrepreneurial interest to sit on one, the other or the third corn or any other field. In Article 6, however, I think the most important last paragraph, which speaks of the idea that the expansion of the settlement is primarily directed towards those lands for which it is important that it can be extended to less important areas, is that they are functionally linked to existing settlements. This is rational because, for the first time, they are less important because they are primarily protected, because what is not excessively protected is also possible to expand, where functional connectivity is. That probably means, if I understand correctly, that we already have a road there, that we have a tram station there, that we have a plumbing there, that we have sewers there, drinking water and everything. With this rational expansion, we are simply exploding the funds that we have already invested in municipal equipment and for which the municipal contribution that we later arrive is already paid. So I think that what is written now is enough and that this amendment is unnecessary and perhaps really opened the door to someone to intervene on the land that they should protect.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u185	I'll warn you one more time. In the first paragraph of this Article, we shall refer to the text "outside the area settlement, spatial arrangements may be planned". Then "agricultural, forestry, tourist activity" and so on. Now I'm going to ask -- urban plan. Is the urban plan a spatial arrangement? I understand, it's probably under this law. Article 45 excludes the possibility of expanding the settlement, unless it is an agricultural, forestry, tourist activity. I would point out that Article 45, paragraph 6, or paragraph 3, of Article 6 and, last but not least, Article 42, paragraph 5, which is contained in the urban plan, will not be completely overrun. The space arrangements referred to in Article 45 shall be possible only for those purposes which are written here. And it seems to me that this law will not be possible to implement if we read Article 45, so in a way that we can expand settlements or allow certain activities to be placed in space. This, in my view, is extremely narrow and excludes the other options provided for in the preceding Articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss this article and the current amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and open the debate on Article 46 and the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 51 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 52 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS sent-in groups and opening a debate or application. Please sign up, we're at number 52. Dr. Gantar, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I will discuss Article 52 in conjunction with Article 53a, which has not been amended, but unfortunately it is no different. Look, this marriage is frankly a very tight marriage. There are many formulations that will prove that scissors and canvas, in the interests of conflict, are placed in the hands of essentially the profession and policy at the Ministry of Environment and Space. There are no mechanisms to resolve conflicts in the true sense of a word where all actors are about as strong if I may say so. And now, under this tight law, where much will not be allowed, if so decided, it is necessary to Article 53a, which says that we have actually tightened the law, we have written it very restrictively, but Article 53a will mean: this is not true if we decide to do so. I now tell you and guarantee that in Article 53a, where the reduced process of change and the completion of the municipal spatial plan is that 80% of all spatial plans will go through a reduced procedure. Just as it has happened many times before, and the law itself will be brought to nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I see that there are no more stakeholders, so I am closing the debate on Article 52a or in the debate on Article 52a, Mr Gantar has, of course, opened the debate on the article which is open, but given that I have allowed Dr Gantar to do so, of course I will also allow you. Minister, if you'd like. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The amendment to this Article was therefore intended to replace the two paragraphs. However, it is related to the content of Article 53a, and we will recall the consideration on the committee, where, at the proposal of the State Council during the debate itself, at the meeting of the Committee, together with the Members, we have drawn up a solution that we have said is good and that, if it is not fully appropriate, it will be added to the debate itself at the national assembly. And that's what happened today. That's a good solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you very much. It's nice to hear that kind of consistency. However, we continue to discuss and put into debate Article 54 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS. Anybody want a word? Nobody. Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 55 and once again the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups of Members. No one wants to discuss it. Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 68 and the amendment of the already mentioned parliamentary groups. Nobody. Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 69 and the amendment of the said parliamentary groups. Nobody. I am also putting to the debate Article 73 and the amendment of the said parliamentary groups. Thank you. I am putting to the debate Article 78 and the amendment of the said parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it. Thank you. We are moving on to Article 79 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it. Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Article 83 and the amendment of the aforementioned parliamentary groups. Okay, I'm opening the application. Please. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. The two amendments to this article, one on behalf of the Social Democrats, the other on behalf of the other on behalf of the other on behalf of the parties to the coalition. I would have only one short question, but I think that this is an essential difference when we talk about freeing the municipal contribution and doing it to enable the congregation to make its investment. However, the proposal of the coalition parties suggests that in this case the municipality must replace the exempted funds in accordance with the rules on public finances and decisions in the municipal budget. This is what I would like someone to explain to me a little bit more precisely, because it means, if I understand correctly, that you're forgiven, but you're going to have to provide this exemption on purpose for what you didn't pay and I don't see the logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much. And Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I have also considered the relevance of this article. Especially about who he dares and who he doesn't forgive the municipal contribution to. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that the municipal contribution is the original municipal income, and again the state is involved in determining what to do with it and what not to do with it. In particular, it seemed to me that it was too narrow, as it had been written earlier, that this should be determined only for non-institutional construction. Now, a little with the coalition amendment, it's widespread, but in my judgment, it's still inappropriate. Why? Because this simply means that we forget that the municipal contribution is essentially a refund on the funds that the municipality invested in municipal equipment and was not at that time asking exactly what source it was. She may have invested in municipal fees, may have invested in an integral budget, but she was deciding herself whether to put it in a kindergarten or put it in municipal equipment, but now she must not be reimbursed. That's what I'm opposed to, and if there's a long way to go, it's only one way. It is also possible to finance municipal infrastructure from an integrated budget, and it is no longer possible to return this money in the long term from municipal infrastructure to an integrated budget. And it may never be like this, but theoretically it is possible for us to arrange a complete commune, and then the money from the municipal contribution will be collected on some item and we will not be able to spend it because it will be forbidden by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Since I'm still seeing your hands up, I'm reopening my application. In the beginning, I give the floor to Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. This solution, this amendment, has also been extensively discussed on the Committee. I remember there being an agreement there to open the article and try to complete it at this stage. We have two amendments to the three parliamentary groups and to the Group of Social Democrats. You're both going the same way. I have to say this. Part of the intention of the SD Group's amendment is contained in the amendment of the three groups. The SD's amendment allows for reduction or relief of the municipal contribution for all types of construction, if we look at it, from one-house houses to the largest industrial halls. However, there is one condition that this is recorded in the municipal code. As it is said, this is partly contained in the amendment of the parliamentary groups. You propose to add the text "and the construction of individual types of educational buildings, scientific research and health care according to the rules for the introduction and use of the uniform classification of types of buildings" to the word association of "non-profit dwellings". In the case of these buildings, it is then more than partial or total municipal funding. Therefore, the question here is whether it makes sense for these buildings to receive a municipal contribution. A third paragraph is added, however, which states that the municipality may determine in part or in whole the exemption from the payment of the municipal contribution also for the construction of all or individual types of non-residential buildings under the rules on the establishment and application of the uniform classification of types of facilities. In this case, the municipality shall be exempt from the appropriations referred to in this paragraph at the same level, the municipality shall be exempt from the public finances and from the municipal budget. In many contacts, the municipalities have expressed the need to use the municipal contribution as an incentive for investment, which we have said is a developmental one. In this case, if your amendment were to be fully adopted, the municipalities should treat those exemptions in accordance with the State aid rules and replace the exempt funds which are the intended source in accordance with the public finances rules and the municipal budget decree. Therefore, since part of your amendment is contained in the solution, as proposed by the three groups of Members, the Government would support the amendments of these three groups of Members. Maybe a partial answer to your question. First of all, in 2005, over 14 billion tolars were collected from the municipal contribution, and investment in municipal equipment was slightly over 42 billion Slovenian tolars in that year, I speak for 2005. The difference must be provided by the municipalities from other sources. And since it is known that there is a lack of municipally equipped land in Slovenia, this means that municipalities should invest even more in municipal equipment. And it is very responsible, when and what are those exemptions that reduce the value of the funds that are collected annually with a municipal contribution. We therefore insisted that the municipal contribution be preserved as a dedicated resource in accordance with the current regime. Mr Rezman said a few things about this. But in our view, the proposed amendment is therefore necessary. We have supported the term 'economic public infrastructure' with some additions in the text, which are important, 'and the construction of individual types of buildings for education, scientific research and health, under the rules on the introduction and use of the uniform classification of types of buildings'. This is a very important definition of this law, and as I have information, it is fully in line with the Union of Municipalities. Thank you. [[The ad in the hall.]] With both associations of Slovenian municipalities, so, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I give the word "magic." Gypsies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u197	I'd like to ask if anyone in connection with this and the next amendment can explain to us who the author of this is, because this is pure dirigism. This is contrary to Article 142 of the Constitution that municipalities have their own revenue so that they can do with them as set out in the municipal budget. The Public Finance Act does not provide for this. Of course, this philosophy, written here and in the following article, is consistent with the philosophy that you are shutting down community funding and introducing rather than community funding to reach congregations. Only that you even prescribe to the congregations what they are allowed to do, what they cannot do, where they can have, where they must not have the money they have collected so that someone for settled municipal land pays for what the congregation’s governing of this communal land has cost. I really want to know who this genius is, who is the author of these ideas of fund centralization. You know, that reminds us of 1965, when we had the central investment funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Now I'd give my word to Mr. Chernach and then to the Minister if I could. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much. We are talking about the amendment to Article 83. Now that I've heard this last time, I was just in a dilemma, whether I'm actually sitting somewhere else, or sitting in a class in some classroom, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u200	And I'm in a dilemma. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u201	where a lecture on public finances is taking place, not on the topic on the agenda. [[...]] That's how I had to make sure. So, Article 83 was very detailed on the committee, as has been said, and if we briefly summed up what has already been said in some way today, the views were mainly drawn on whether to allow the municipalities the possibility to determine the exemptions for the payment of the municipal contribution for individual purposes, or not. To be perfectly honest, the debate was very strongly separated. Some argued that it was not permissible to allow any exemption from payment, while others defended the view that there was a need for the congregations to leave the sovereignty of the opinion that it was their original income. And in this sense, this amendment is also written, because in the first part, where the dictatorship only changes because of the clarity that the municipal contribution to the construction of the economic public infrastructure is not paid, the law itself does not pay, the real municipalities do not decide on it, this provision is clear and I think it is acceptable for all too. In that remaining work, however, two levels of decision - making are to be taken by the congregations. With the amendment that we are making, we are merely allowing the congregations to make a sovereign decision as to whether or not this mechanism will be used by their congregational councils, of course. If they see interest in this, they will decide in this way, unless they see it, such a regulation, decree, they will not adopt a regulation. And it is, of course, to separate two levels: investments relating to, say, public buildings and public spaces, kindergartens, schools, playgrounds, gyms where public funds are involved, for public purposes, public buildings, where it is quite clear that money is being transferred from one pocket to another, insofar as this contribution is paid. The community will charge itself and then get this returned. She can do that, too. That's her sovereign right. And for the second part, where there are individual mechanisms that municipalities have already served in the past when these exemptions allowed certain investments to come into their environment. Like, old-age homes set up by some concessionaire, some sort of business hall that hired 100. At that time, some congregations made a conscious decision to give up this source. For such or other reasons. Some had already built equipment and was available there. However, I think it is right that we allow them to give them this opportunity to make their own sovereign decisions about what will happen to their original income. That's part of the story. About that other part. As long as we have been in the EU under the regulation applicable to these moments throughout the European Union and as far as we are putting this exemption into the private sphere, it is a matter of some kind of public aid, state aid. And it falls under these State aid rules, so these things need to be done under certain mechanisms that are in place. So much for that. I personally think that until the third reading, it may not be vague, but I think that the purpose of this amendment is so and that we all understand it. Another issue is the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, which is essentially something similar. It speaks practically of the same, perhaps under-defined, but the content is not the same, but is not systemicly good, because it says 'a municipality may, in accordance with the regulation referred to in Article 82(2) of this Act, lay down exemptions or reductions in the payment of a municipal contribution to the construction of non-profit apartments and for construction for other purposes'. This regulation, however, is a regulation of the Minister setting out the criteria for the assessment of the municipal contribution. So it's not consistent and it's not systemic. I don't think this amendment can be accepted after all. But my friend Rezman was talking about another matter. However, we are talking about Article 84, and it would be right to talk about it at that time. It is said that it is appropriate in this law to lay down in detail the means of demonstrating the purpose of this municipal contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I am reopening the debate by giving my first word to the Minister. Thank you very much. The first one has the floor, Minister Podobnik. Mr. Podobnik, Mr. Minister, you wanted a word! Will you wait? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u203	I would have referred to Article 84, because the Member spoke about the amendment to Article 84 in his performance, and then I would have called.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u204	Good. The first one has the word, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. So my colleagues have already expressed their views, and I could say that two of them are not exactly alike. But I want to say a procedural matter in this substantive matter. Also on the committee was that somehow we did not find any purely common language, and then there was an agreement to prepare for the best possible approximation of what is possible, to open the article and to try to find something better by the third reading if it can be found. If you can't, you can keep it that way. I think that this proposal, under which we are signed by the coalition groups, is the best text that gives the most or the most possible clarifications. The same goes for the 84th, the next, article, so I'm not gonna take the next one. The same applies to third reading. We're trying to find a better text. The article is open. If we don't find it, it's gonna stay the way it is, because it's not bad now. And maybe my personal opinion. I personally advocate that she hasn't forgiven anyone, because what you're forgiving or giving something for free comes back anyway, and then it's possible that this socialisation or whatever, that we all pay for a matter that a specific addressee should pay for or not. But I don't insist. Just as the majority opinion will be on the committee, so will I accept it and I will defend it. The main article is open and until the third reading it is possible to find any better text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u206	Thank you very much. In my opinion, this is an eccentric case of law where articles are closely linked and almost impossible to deal with in a vacuum. And that's why I'm letting you jump from one article to another, otherwise obviously you're not. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u207	Thank you. I don't think it's that simple. I am talking about the amendment of coalition groups, and I think that colleague Rezman was referring to this article, not to Article 84. Look, we also need to have municipal equipment in mind, and this is also defined in this law. The municipalities will have to have a programme of utility equipment or what legislation also prescribes in this area. As far as I understand, when we are talking about some land transactions, I am now talking about the third part of this amendment, what is most important in this matter. Thus, the municipality may determine in part or in whole the exemption from payment of the municipal contribution also for the construction of all or individual types of non-residential buildings. Now, in advance, we need to know what these buildings are and, above all, to have in mind that this really applies to potential investors who will build some production plants as well. And if I come back. This means that if the municipality wants to conduct some transactions, I repeat, these lands will be able to carry out these transactions with municipally equipped land, if not, please correct me. This means that the congregation will have to invest financial resources in order to equip the land with communal equipment. Communal equipment first. Then there will be a municipal contribution that the original - source congregation, based on this municipal contribution, will somehow regain its investment. Now this sentence is problematic here, which means that the congregation will invest twice, and no money will be given because it will invest it twice. You know, here when it says that these funds must be replaced in an integrated budget - and I agree with the Minister when he talks about state aid, which is probably against the law if they are not all equally involved in these state aids, but in this case, that means that the municipality must have these funds in the budget, that is to say, it will not invest elsewhere, because these funds will have to be remunerated for land and I do not see where it can take them. And I think that there is something else that needs to be addressed in this third part, because I don't think that the solution is the best. However, this amendment is going in a better direction than the kind of general solution of the SD Group, because it is somehow quoted here as "or for construction for other purposes." But I certainly can't accept it, it's too wide, I don't know what that opens up to me. I am of the same opinion that, given that the article is open, it will have to be reconsidered if it can be complemented by a better or more appropriate solution. But I would really ask if I could get an explanation from the Minister as to my thinking. Please, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u209	I have very little time. Only four brief statements. Articles 83 and 84 are almost identical. If the amendment states that an exemption must be replaced, this is the same as the intention of a source. Secondly, as far as "from pocket to pocket," I'm not talking about that, I'm talking about stimulating investors. It's not "from pocket to pocket" but it's stimulating investments. State aid is not illegal, we have a State Aid Act. And what the minister says, how much is invested and how much is needed, it's statistical. The individual congregation has different needs at various times, and different congregations also have different needs.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u210	Thank you very much. And Mr. Weber. [[No, no, ……]] Good. Anybody else want to talk? I see that, so I am reopening the debate. Please sign up. Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u211	I think there's been an entirely unnecessary complication here. I think that you all kind of equalize the municipal contribution as a kind of, under the terms - if you don't pay the municipal contribution - as a "subsidy" that only the owner gets. Think of this contribution as a permanent ticket for you to enter the field. At that time, of course, it will probably be easier to deal with this municipal contribution than I have the problem of public finances. Otherwise, of course, you are violating some of the principles, gross evidence, the European Aid Directive. So I think you've made a conceptual contribution here - and I suppose the Ministry of Finance has made an important contribution to this - as if this was, under the terms of "subsidy". It is not a subsidy, but it is simply a reduced price of service. Who says that in the price of the service, according to the time when this service will be achieved, full reimbursement of fixed, variable and other costs must be achieved? So I suggest that you really think about it, and at least the last part of this sentence in the amendment is deleted, because I see no reason for you to make up for something that you've basically reduced the price for.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u212	Thank you very much. And my friend Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u213	Of course, that's not true what Mr. Squeakle said now, and he knows it well. That's a charge. It's a duty that's forgiven to someone. Someone who should pay for it is exempt from these taxes. And I think the matter in this part is clear, and it makes no sense, and I'm not going to debate it either. I just want to clarify once again that we need to separate between the two segments of this work. One segment is investment in public institutions, in public institutions where the municipality owns a local community where there are no such problems by replacing this failure. The municipality may decide and, for such purposes, may exempt the payment of a municipal contribution; the congregation may decide, I emphasize, there is no coercion here. However, it is your responsibility, with respect to your fellow mayors, to propose these decisions to your municipal councils in an appropriate manner. It's your responsibility, and I think you'll know how to follow her. What the third paragraph says, however, is that we must respect certain common rules since we have been in the European Union, and insofar as the congregation decides to exempt someone who is, I will say, a private person where this is not a public sphere, it is only right that these funds be replaced. Of course, the congregation will make that decision, the congregation council will decide why we should be making decisions here today, and there is no need. I think that, given the practice of things running in different environments, this sovereign right is so different that it is necessary for the municipalities, especially given that it is their source, to leave behind, because the information provided by the Minister speaks of being fully viewed and individually, no municipality can provide the costs of municipal equipment solely on the basis of a municipal contribution, none or perhaps rare. Everything must be provided here from other sources, from, I don't know, regional incentives, from grants and from other sources, such or other sources. But it's their business, it's a matter of the congregation. It doesn't make sense that we're here today to discuss things in too detail. Let us give them the opportunity to make that decision, and this amendment, which we propose, makes it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I'll open another application. Please. Of course, you can sign up for those who still have time. Thank you very much. Will you leave the first word to your colleague Gantar? Good. Dr. Gantar, please, and then the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u215	I would say to this article, to the amendment, that, in a substantive sense, my colleague, Squeakl is right. Although he did say, the ticket went on like that. The fact is that the municipal contribution has paid for the costs incurred by the municipality with municipal equipment to allow someone with some building to join this network infrastructure and similar infrastructure. The municipality may say that I give up part of this contribution or entirely because I think that if it comes with its facility and activity in this place, my congregation, the benefits are greater than the payment of this municipal contribution, in part or in full. In this respect, Comrade Squeakl is right and this is not a duty in this sense, such as a universal duty, which captures someone, regardless of any legal status, etc. This is a reparation, which is actually a compensation, because the congregation has already paid something so that I can settle there and build. In this respect, my colleague Swickl is right and therefore I do not think that this goes under the category of State aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you, too. My word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u217	Thank you, too. My word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We've been planning pretty well, the government's got quite a bit of time. Is it possible for any of the members of this group to give little of our time? It's not working. I certainly wouldn't want to violate the rules of procedure. I just want to say that you have a confession to make. The government has come up with a very restrictive solution in these two articles on exemption and purposeful spending. And then at the committee meeting, we took the initiative to open up a new opportunity for the congregations. This is such a sensitive issue, an important issue that I find this effort and this debate very important. There's something else I'd like to remind you of. Sometimes when you fix something, you find out how it actually works. How is the situation now? There is no record of this in the law in force, but there is a whole lot of exemption in the regulation in force. Thus, the current practice that we have inherited - with all due respect for our predecessors - is contrary to the principles of public finances. That's why it's right to fix them. For, of course, if the municipal contribution is a resource, then we must, on the basis of the Public Finance Act, provide that the earmarkings of the municipal budget decree are also specifically defined. This procedure will be carried out with amendments to both articles. The current solution has another peculiarity that is significantly worse than the one that we are going to solve together. The present solution speaks of a dedicated fund, which is very unpleasant for the congregations. This is the current practice, so we need to improve it. Our proposal is that, in order to adopt the amendment of the groups of Members to Article 83, the amendment of the colleagues of the Social Amendments is also partly summarised. You have to admit that the diction "and for other purposes" would not have endured a broader judgment and would not have gone through. And it is right that we accept our solution, as proposed by the Members. However, to look at the third reading, as fellow Member Petan suggested that we may be optimizing this solution, and the same could apply to the next article if the same dilemma arose. And that's what I want to say. As European practice experts tell me, Mr Cvikl was also the Minister for European Affairs, tax exemption is state aid. The granting of one benefit which the citizen owes under the municipal decision to pay is State aid. And I'd be glad it didn't, but unfortunately it doesn't. And if this is what experts who know European practice say, then, unfortunately, we should believe them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u219	Thank you, too. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. Then we reopen the procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Milan Cwickl applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u220	It's a very simple matter. What if we didn't make communally equipped land? Would there be a fee? Then there's no duty. That's not a charge. This is a normal own activity, compensation for the cost invested. But you can make this community contribution for 50 years, no problem. That's all you can do. Tell him not to pay today to pay in his 50s. What about then? I told you, you got involved because you agreed it was a tax-- it wasn't! That's what someone pays as a ticket to get that square meter. But you can put it all together in a public-private partnership as an unregulated land, and he'll do it. Will this then be a municipal contribution? You give an empty land to a private partner - will that be a municipal contribution? He won't. Ah, please! He'll be in the square meter - no municipal contribution will be made. I'm talking empty land, no manners. You get involved, you think about it like it's your own business - Cankar's home, you go and buy a ticket.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u221	Thank you. The debate shall include Secretary of State of Starman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u222	I would point out another element which was also open to the committee, and this is an exemption that cannot be individualised, and must also be regulated in accordance with the principles of public procurement. In any case, you cannot forgive on an individual basis, even if it is the payment of a service, even the exemption from the payment of a service cannot be made without choosing the most favourable one, the one that gives you the most on the basis of this leave. In short, the matter is also further complicated from this point of view, and this proposed solution seeks a balance between one and another, but of course, as has already been said, we will be able to correct this to a certain extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u223	Thank you, too. May I close the debate on Article 83? Yes, you can. I'm closing the debate. I open Article 84 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and the Slovenian People's Party. If you'd like to sign up, please. Three Members joined the debate. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would say very briefly, because I don't have time anyway, that this article is already wrong on its own. In fact, the purpose of the municipal contribution is not particularly taken into account that investments in municipal equipment and revenues from the municipal contribution are time-consumingly uncoordinated. That the inflows from the municipal contribution come into the municipal budget with a very large time delay. I will now say in concrete terms, and 5 million and a half euros of revenue from municipal contributions are planned in the isolation budget this year, and only 3 million and a half euros are spent on municipal equipment. What does that mean? That the Municipality of Izola will have to find other resources to finance other expenditure because it will have to carry two million and a half or more, now I don't remember the numbers, the euro next year, because they are dedicated revenue that can only be spent on municipal construction. So, this is about amazing things. The country wants to take control of every euro and cent that flows through public finances. I think that this is a great deal of everything, but some of the freedom of the congregations needs only to be given and, above all, that we need to understand what the process of this is. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you. This amendment is unacceptable, this amendment was written by a government coalition under the orders of the Ministry of Finance, this amendment is the end of the country. Why? The public contribution has been and is and will be a dedicated contribution. You're writing this because it is. If a citizen of a municipality, I will specify, the citizen of Trbovlje, pays the municipal contribution to the municipality of Trbovlje, which the municipality of Trbovlje returns as a means of destination, with what right does the State require that this money be spent on the Public Payments Authority of the Republic of Slovenia? I'll answer you with some right. Because the Ministry of Finance's financial holes are going to "flash" with this money. And here I will identify the congregation and Barovich, and I will not go to any state institution to any bureaucrats "fahtati" for my money! My money is my money. The Ripper paid to the congregation of Trbovlje will receive him back. With what right should this money now go to the State, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments? With what right, why? Why does the farmer, the resident of the municipality of Trbovlje, pay the municipal contribution to the municipality of Trbovlje for the further development of the basic function of the municipality, the development of infrastructure and the municipality - so that the country will collect it and the state will ask me for the commas and dots and keep my money for three months and give it back to me mercifully and I will go to Ljubljana to ask for the money that the Ripper gave to the Rippers? Are you being a fool or something? Do you think we don't know in the Slovenian National Party that the Ministry of Finance ordered you to write this amendment? The article, which is clear in this law, in the amended proposal of the Law, 84., without an amendment, is pure, clear, just and correct. And such an article to change, you accurately indicated how you're under the grove, the whip of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u227	Thank you. And to the word I call on the apostle Paul Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This amendment is actually a coup d'état on the municipal budget and on municipal public finances. Historically, historically not only in a democratic Slovenia, I would even say in a socialist Slovenia, in the history of European cities it is a traditional source of revenue of the municipality and has always been available to municipalities, cities and so it has been until today and today and there is no problem in this regard. The municipality shall account for the contribution, it shall pay it and it shall pay it in a municipal account. And the end and purpose are assured and must be demonstrated, and the Court of Auditors also takes care of it, etc. Why transport through the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments? What is the point of paying this administration first, and then this administration within a period that is not defined anywhere, how much time does it give to the congregation? Does he transfer exactly this money to a congregation in exactly the same amount or not? That's not clear either! Is it redistribution, or is it, in fact, what has already been mentioned, the transition from community funding to community outreach? Will this contribution, which compensates for the services of the municipality, be treated in fact as a tax? If that happens, then I will tell you that the municipalities will be deprived and completely without financial instruments. This can't happen. I don't know why this is the reason, it's definitely not written by the Coalition Group of Members or by the Minister of the Environment, it's definitely. If there is a tradition at the Ministry of Environment and Space, there is certainly a tradition of conflicts and fighting in these matters with the Ministry of Finance. Mr. Minister Podobnik, you must not allow this as a minister to another minister. Here in fact - what is at least, is that the obvious budget wants liquidity, an increase in liquidity by then holding this money in the account of the Public Payments Agency for these reasons and then by its own free will it distributes it back to the municipalities as it seems and in timeframes, which are very important. I would like to point out that this can be a coup d'état against large cities, because these cities have the highest costs, because in these very places the most constructions are taking place and in these very places there may be a gap between the communally equipped land and the payment of the contribution resulting from the construction later, which can be very large and must also be moved with other resources. It has been said that 12 billion have been collected, 20 billion directly invested in it in the congregation. Instead of helping them activate this money as soon as possible, we allow them here to do the opposite. I will now seriously tell you if this amendment is to be adopted, personally with my colleagues and with the mayors who want it, I will write a constitutional assessment of this article because it so deeply interferes with some really fundamental jurisdiction of the congregation and violates all laws, including local self-government and also the constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you very much. First, too hard words and too fast were used. The following must be said first, for the congregation of Trbovlje or for any other, as is the case today. This is a practice that is based on that wonderful ZUREP that you all so praise, and the government regulation is so regulated. That's the way it works. The Ministry of Finance has a sub-legislative act, which accurately spells out the sub-contract to which this municipal contribution is made from each municipality, a financial instrument which is then returned to the municipalities. That is the case today, and it is therefore only necessary to assess whether the present, present - day solution under the law is good or not. So I wouldn't use such pathetic words, but I would try to find a good solution. And as was said, we'll try to find maybe even better. And the question that is being asked is whether it is necessary for matters to be so decided, in detail, in the law, because in this case the content of the sub-law could also be. So that this information will not come out of this debate, as if in this case the parliamentary groups are proposing a "attack" on municipal budgets or some terrible centralisation. The current solution is what it is now, but the current one is even worse because it is a dedicated fund, it is intentional. And the purpose of the congregation, the municipal budgets, is further limiting the use of these funds by softening things in part here, but I think we can find a solution together that will be acceptable to the Ministry of Finance, by the way. Each Minister of Environment and Space, as well as other ministers, always has a dynamic relationship with the Minister of Finance. It's the most normal thing. That is why the role of Minister of Finance is so sensitive and important in each government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich has a replica. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. At the moment, I directly called a university educated man who is an accountant in the municipality of Trbovlje and claimed that the municipal contribution was the original contribution of the municipality of Trbovlje. People who pay it pay it as their original income to the congregation [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] and the congregation purposely, of course, gives it back, purposefully, to restore it. [[...]] So you don't think this money, as I now understand you, goes through the state, through some sublegal regulations of the Ministry of Finance. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Time's up. Can I have your attention, please? Only a replica shall be included in the time available under the Rules of Procedure. Would anyone else like to discuss it? Good. I'm reopening the application. Please sign up. Thank you very much. I might give the first word to the Members and then to the Minister. The first one has the word mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. I just agree with my fellow mayors and predecessors. Undoubtedly, the matter is as it was said, and with this change, we are literally punishing those who in the past were more concerned with the more investment. And here it is easy to find a solution that will increase investment and development resources for the municipalities, but not overthrow them, because at this moment it is impossible to breathe and develop in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Dr. Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u236	Mr President, we have quite a bit of time, I am speaking slowly, there is no need to rush. First of all, if this is the case, then I must say that I am interested in which act - certainly not on the basis of the Law on the Regulation of Space. And if the law under this law has regulated this, then in my opinion it is also controversial - any government has arranged it either the previous or the current one. Anyway, it's controversial anyway! Secondly, I contacted and talked to the mayors. The parishioners I spoke to don't know that. They don't know that. And once again, check well, certainly this solution is illegal today. Therefore, it is unnecessary for us to rediscover this illegal solution, but now as legally binding, in this law, I am already opposed, if that is the case. I know that the compensation for the use of building land is collected through Durs, on behalf of and on behalf of the municipality and so on. But the municipal contribution, I have to say, is that most people and mayors don't know. And this is a new, very interesting knowledge for me; even more so now let us write down, as it is written in fact, whether in this new law or even in the old law, where it is clear and there is no such provision. We don't need anything in here.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We need to know that all the tax revenues coming into the municipal budget go according to existing legislation through the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments and also non-taxable - as so far [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] tax or non-taxable municipal contribution. [[...]] I personally consider, as the Minister has said before, this third - whether it is necessary to write this because it is prescribed by another law, I think the law on public finances. And we don't have a problem with the congregation. You know that this is through UJPES, or, as it is called, due to the control of the back taxes, in two days, the funds are allocated or on that day to the municipal budget, and the municipalities receive a B2 form controlled by the municipality at the end of the month, and you know that P1 form needs to be sent to the Ministry of Finance, where the Ministry checks the operations of the municipalities and so on. I see no dispute in this matter. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The news is paragraph four. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u240	Comrade Barovich, don't get upset! The state and the congregation need you! If you read carefully what is said in this proposal, you could see that it is a matter of accounting for the municipal budget. This is not about any funds that are estranged from municipal public finances. The second question is whether or not this is necessary in law. I think that there was also a very broad debate on this article on the Committee, and the views were kind of the opposite. Some of us thought that it was the original income of the municipalities as defined in the municipal budget. It is determined by the municipal budget of expenditure and sufficient dedicated spending is sufficient, as has been defined so far. And I personally think that's quite enough. The ambitions of some were that things needed to be written down in more detail, and that is why these amendments, as proposed, are now proposed. However, they are not proposed as some of you have understood that it is a matter of dispossessing resources into a State sub-account and that the state will have it at its disposal. This is not because it clearly states that this is a sub-account of the municipal budget. We got it in the original text, but the committee even said that a budget fund for this money would be set up. We know what that means. This means actually blocking the business, and that would not be a good thing. The point is, it is a source that provides municipal equipment, which is dedicated, which is defined and used every year from budgets, and I think that the intention of the law is also that of the proposed amendment. We can only debate how detailed these matters need to be written in law. Personally, I don't think it's necessary to write too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u241	Thank you. I'm giving my word to the minister, and then I'll reopen the circle if you don't mind. Mr. Secretary. [[He's not here.]] I'm sorry. I'm opening another circle because I see a few raised arms. Please sign up if you still have time. The first one has the word, Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u242	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think that screaming and screaming is completely unnecessary, or the mayor or the MPs are either unaware of or unaware of some of the things. This matter runs in an extremely coordinated manner without any problems, I speak for our congregation. Today, if the debtor orders the beneficiary to this account, which it is, that money will indeed be transferred to the DURS that day, the next day it will be empty into the municipal budget. There's just as much revenue as there is in that year, expenditure about as much as we have money. And the matter is completely clear, the income is the original of the local budget, no problems with Ljubljana, centralisation, with Mr. Bajuk, no! I'm afraid it's not, no. And that's a thing that, according to my judgment and our practice, is good, run away. And all it says is exactly that; perhaps just this comment, whether it is necessary to write it down in such detail in the law, is a matter of the legislator's judgment. I don't think that's necessary. It could be shorter, but if it's already written, "from the excess head doesn't actually hurt." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u243	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Bajc's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I thought the case would go, or it would be handled itself, given that there are quite a few mayors here, but that they understand and that they know how it is now. An interested investor who submits an application for a building permit on an administrative unit before the construction permit is issued alone, this referee who runs this procedure will refer him to the municipality of the municipality, who will give a municipal contribution, and this calculation will write a bill, pay for the DURS, and with that certificate or with the original position you will go back to the administrative unit and by submitting a copy of the bill you will receive a building permit. The other is what my colleague Blackach said. Indeed, paragraphs 1 and 2 must be read and then paragraphs 3 and 4 must be read, says the Court’s budget as assigned revenue through this sub-account. That's exactly what it is. Now, whether this is how this third and fourth paragraphs need to be worked out, that is a real question. I propose, and I will support myself, that these amendments be adopted and that we delineate these two paragraphs and prepare one paragraph to talk about the way, the course, if necessary, given that in the second paragraph we have said that they are original or that the revenue collected through the payment of municipal contributions is the revenue of the municipal budget. Pika, amen, whatever we write in the following paragraphs, is just a technique of how this money will come into the municipal budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u246	I have to tell you, unfortunately, you've got it all mixed up. The first intention of the proposer of the law was logical and correct, and a budget fund should be set up so that at the end of the year the original income money does not remain unused. That's what you deleted on the board. But then you came up with some kind of dictatorship of the Ministry of Finance, which is totally unnecessary, because it's self-sustaining, but it's very important in connection with Article 83. And the point is very simple. The main problem that the Ministry of Finance always had was what financial compensation should be made if municipalities largely exempt municipal contributions. And that's the intention here, and this is where the Ministry of Finance got you. Now that you are poorer and more forgiving in order to gain development, you will at least receive less financial compensation if you accept Articles 83, 84. This is where the Ministry of Finance got you. Everything else is a technique and a "gumirabika".
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I ask a little ear to continue the debate. Dr. Gantar, he has the floor. Dr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u248	I didn't hear them discussing something here. As regards the third paragraph here, to be collected in the special payment sub-account of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments, i.e. not at the DURS, and via this area they are made to the municipal budget. Of course, it goes to the payment sub-account of the Administration for Public Payments and then certainly to the municipal sub-account and at the same time to open and lay down this law now in the dedicated title of the accounts and sub-contracts on the municipal budget. All this is unnecessary. First of all, one basic principle: if you all say that it runs as it does today, and that it runs well, that it goes through Durs, but in fact we don't even know whether it goes through Durs or via the Public Payments Authority - you don't know anything; then I don't have a problem with it either, because they have to go to the Public Payments Authority, by the way, is that it has to register all payment traffic between all these public consumers and there are municipalities among them, by the way, if you haven't seen it. [[...]] I would simply say this: this article should be thrown out, here are once again, in this half year, I agree with Montenegro if it does not change its position, this article or this amendment is totally unnecessary if things are going well today and if there are no problems in this regard. I therefore propose that this article be deleted in fact, because it can simply mean confusion and this in the sense that now that it is enshrined in the law, the Public Payments Authority may have more powers than it otherwise has in the technical implementation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I'm opening another application. Please. Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u250	Thank you very much. My colleague Squeakle says it's wrong because this money won't run into the budget fund. And I think that's the right thing to do. I think the congregations would be very limited in planning and in spending this money if that happened. At all, I am not the type of budget fund you set up in Ljubljana, where you will save wild landfills from the money people pay for medicines. And here not with a million or two tolars, but with 5.7 billion tolars of surpluses of the public institution of the city of Lekarna Ljubljana, which is in the course of all these years. With the €23 million that will flow into this budget fund, which you so advocate, wild landfills will be saved from medicines. And for such a solution, I am not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeakle's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u252	Of course, I would like to tell the lawyer that the difference between the earmarked receipts of the budget funds is that the assigned revenue at the end of the year falls and the budget fund remains the following year. If you want to introduce some long-term planning, it was the real diction that you rejected on the committee. That's the first one. Second. However, the points of Articles 83 and 84 are not at all in line, but you will receive less financial compensation for the congregations you forgive. Look at the numbers, on the left, on the right, and that's the result of Article 83, 84, so of course I reject both articles, both amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Since there's no replica on the replica, I'm reopening the debate. Please sign up. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u254	Mr Cvikl is very well known to talk about how this state authority wants to direct everything, how it wants to manage everything, how it wants to instrument everything and at every session, in every debate, we have also listened to almost all the minutes that the LDS delegation has had available to use for its debate, how everything is centrally defined, how all centralistically oriented, how the national plans will overtake municipal decisions, etc. Now he does not want to leave the autonomy of decision - making to the congregations. Interesting. Where it is actually a matter of interest, where it is a matter of money, where it is a useful use of funds, where it is a matter of the original income of the municipalities, Mr Swickl would direct the matter from the state level. This, I think, is a two-faced policy or performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeakle's got a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u256	See, to Slovenian viewers and viewers, the budget fund is not something at state level, but it goes, as it says, in the municipal budget it uses the budget fund. So it's the budget fund. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the municipalities of Ljubljana, Celje and others up to 210. [[...]] And this, of course, is not centralisation, but decentralisation, but it also makes it possible to spend money next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u257	Thank you very much. So we need to reopen the debate because there is no replica to the replica. Please sign up. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u258	Thank you very much. It's true what Mr. Squeakle says. This is the municipal budget fund and how this money will be spent in the Ljubljana municipality, I said earlier. The money that people pay for drugs will be spent to rehabilitate wild landfills. This is a policy that Mr Squeakl obviously advocates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, Dr. Gantar, you can no longer speak because time has run out. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Excuse me, excuse me. [[...]] Changes are also taking place too quickly for the president, so I ask you to apply. Check-in is on. I'll reopen the application. Try to vote on this one. This time it worked, Dr. Gantar, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u260	Strangely enough, my name appeared on the screen, thank you very much. I would only say that at the end of this debate, I will not defend Ljubljana City Policy, I am not part of it, not any other way or another. But I would still tell my colleague, as I know it, that wild landfills will be saved from those revenues and profits that were created in these pharmacies, which I think is perfectly normal and correct. The city must, not only this city, but any other city must have the right to allocate its money from the revenue it has from companies, if they are involved, by matching and implementing its priorities. That's why your hint of how to get rid of wild landfills is inappropriate and inaccurate, and you know that. It is quite right that the city should state the priorities and ways in which it will solve its problems and that this is transparent and that this money is derived from the revenues it has just received. If there are pharmacies in this case, there are pharmacies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Since there are no more reports, I am closing the debate on Article 84 and the amendments under way. I am putting to the debate Article 95 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Article 98 and once again the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS. Nobody wants a word. Thank you very much. I therefore conclude the debate on all the articles and all the amendments. The latter will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.25. This concludes this agenda item. I thank Minister Podobnik with the cooperation team, and at the same time welcome Minister Virant with the co-workers. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspection Supervisory Act - EPA 1245-IV. We have two hours and 30 minutes to discuss. The bill was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, so I give the floor to Minister Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Inspection is certainly one of the key functions of public administration, since it ensures that what is enshrined in laws and regulations also has its real reflection in life and that regulations do not remain a dead letter on paper. We will probably all agree that there is plenty of room for improvement in the operation of inspections in Slovenia, that inspections are often justified by criticism, that they are not sufficiently successful and effective, and that this is usually shown in the most resounding way in individual cases that have more serious consequences or are more media-sensitive for any other reason. Finally, this is likely to be the case in the Lip case, which, in particular, has received a broad public dimension and a broad media dimension due to the tragic consequences. On the basis of the findings on this manoeuvre area for improvements in the operation of inspections, the Government has decided to implement certain corrective measures. The minor changes and additions to the inspection supervision law that are ahead of you today are also an integral part of these corrective measures. In particular, I would like to point out that the amendment of this law is by no means sufficient for the better functioning of inspections, but that the functioning of inspections is primarily a matter of good and good governance, i.e. management, as is the case with the public administration. The law itself will not save everything, it is not a magic wand, but it will make things easier and give more opportunities for successful leadership. What are the major changes? First of all, there's increased coordination. The coordination between the inspectorates and the inspections under the auspices of the various departments shall be coordinated by the inspection board, which, under the new law, will be coordinated by the Minister responsible for public administration. It is a matter of ensuring coordination between inspections, which is not merely a link between them, i.e. between the main inspectors, but also that in this inspection board there is someone who can, if they fail to coordinate themselves, be able to intersect in this case, or propose to the Government to decide on a dispute of jurisdiction, or to reach an agreement between them, who will be responsible for a matter, or to accelerate joint coordinated action in areas where such actions are meaningful. Under the auspices of the inspection board, we will also organise regional coordination, as good coordination is needed on the ground, not only at the central level in Ljubljana, but usually the problems of coordination occur on the ground. When more inspections break down some powers when they point to each other with their finger on each other, when they place the responsibility on each other, then someone has to cut down and decide who will take the action. We already have some of these examples and experience from practice. If I give you just one case. For example, we have a case of an intervention in a place where mineral substances have been or are being used in dispute, and this intervention by an investor hides under the cover of a forest road. And now there's a typical inspection dispute. Environmental and Space Inspection says, "We're not responsible for this because it's a forest road." On the other hand, the agricultural inspection says, "From our point of view, everything is fine, because no permit is required for a forest road." The whole neighborhood sees something digging up there and something illegal is happening. In such a case, we must not allow inspections to call back responsibility on each other, but we must cut down and say, "One or the other inspection will go, monitor and take action." And that's what these regional coordinators are gonna do. If they fail to coordinate at the regional level, this will be communicated to the inspection board, which will take over this role to cut, the Government will decide on the jurisdiction dispute at the very least. The inspection board will also develop criteria for the effectiveness and effectiveness of inspections. Through these criteria, all inspections will be made clear what is expected of them, what is expected of them, what is expected of people from inspections and what is expected of the government from inspections. What exactly is an effective and successful inspection? Surely this is not an inspection that issues the largest number of measures. This is said to be statistics in terms of the amount of measures taken, fines and so on cannot be a criterion or the main criterion for assessing the effectiveness and effectiveness of an inspection. An effective inspection that knows and manages the territory in which it operates, i.e. the area that covers it, which responds to impulses from the environment, to applications and so on, which, in particular, can respond quickly to critical cases, to difficult cases, for example, where there is a risk to life, human health, wealth of greater value and so on, which can set priorities, not only by collecting statistics, but by actually setting priorities and responding particularly where it is important that it can distinguish substantially from non-essential and does not act bureaucraticly, so on and so on, take advantage of its ability to point out when minor infringements are involved when they are a matter of an apparent result or a poorer knowledge of regulations or uncertainties in regulations and so on. This is a good inspection, i.e. an inspection that distinguishes substantially from a nonessential one that responds quickly to critical cases and does not act bureaucraticly. The amendment of the law also refers to the so-called inspectoral examination. Today, every inspector has to do a whole series of professional exams. We have estimated that it is rational for all the areas which the inspector needs to know to be combined into one inspection examination covering all: both general knowledge of the administration and knowledge of inspection, criminal procedure and administrative procedure. The amendment also refers to the fact or relationship between inspectors and their supervisors, i.e. inspection managers. The law clearly provides that the inspector must take into account in his work the direction and direction of his supervisor and also his direct superior, that is, his direct manager. When it comes to efficiency of work, the inspector cannot and must not refer to autonomy. The Inspector must be like all other civil servants involved in the hierarchy system, in the management system, because we also know who is responsible for what. The head of the district unit is responsible for the work of the entire district unit, the Chief Inspector is responsible for the operation of an inspectorate. Not that, let's say, some application or criticism from the court, the criticism of the party, can be answered by the Chief Inspector, if you, I'm sorry that the inspectors are working poorly in practice, but I can't influence them, because they are independent. Such a type of autonomy cannot be tolerated in the administration. Therefore, it is necessary to give priority to responsibility. The law also strengthens the powers of inspections in some respects or provides for these powers more clearly. Given that the law has been agreed by all inspectors, i.e. all inspectors of the inspections, I can say that the lack of powers from now on, at least from now on, I think it has not been possible yet, but at least from now on there cannot be an alibi or an excuse for non-action. Inspections shall have all the necessary powers, have strong powers, may step up their measures from a warning, to the determination of a measure, and then, if this measure is not respected, to the prohibition of the exercise of activities, the closure of an establishment, the seizure of objects, the sealing of premises, the decommissioning of municipal connections and so on, the imposition of fines only because someone does not respect inspection measures, in addition to the fact that the perpetrator may also be sanctioned for an offence because he is in breach of the regulation. In short, the warrants have enough inspections. The fines are also raised in the law, and in a few points the procedure is debirocratized. For example, if the inspector detects minor violations during the examination, he may point to this and the debtor may react and remedy the infringement during the procedure itself. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u263	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mojco Kucler Dolinar, President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u264	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister, his co-workers, fellow Members, fellow Members! At its 30th session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice addressed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspection Control Act. At the meeting, the representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation for the bill and also highlighted the main objectives or purposes of the bill. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service took part in the meeting, who initially presented the written opinion of this service and stressed that the Legal and Legislative Service, at the time of the adoption of the basic law when the basic law was adopted, had expressed a few concerns about the placement of an inspection which, by its nature, was a repressive body in a non-inspectorate body, in particular with regard to its placement in another body. She drew attention to, in their view, a somewhat vague relationship between the Minister of Public Administration, who, according to a proposal by law, runs an inspection board, with other ministers responsible for the full functioning of their ministry. In addition, it expressed its views on the educational conditions and working conditions of the inspectors that they did not seem most appropriate in the light of the arrangements so far. Representatives of the Union of State Authorities of Slovenia also took part in the meeting of the Committee, whose representatives highlighted and said they regretted, however, that a broader public debate had not been carried out on the law and that the situation in certain inspectorates was critical. In their view, the amendments tabled were taken into account and included in some of their important comments and expressed the view that it would be more appropriate to organise a single inspectorate within which inspections would work for each administrative area and which would have the status of a single body within one of the ministries. They considered that one of the reasons why inspections were ineffective could be due to their fragmentation and placement under the ministries. These concerns were addressed by the representative of the proposer and explained that, in general, all the systemic issues or comments of the union have been coordinated and taken into account when preparing the draft law, and have been coordinated and dealt with several times with by the inspection board, and that the proposal is also the result of a broader joint work and reflects the need for some amendments. In the course of the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed, in particular, questions about the provisions relating to the principle of the public, where a debate was held on the appropriateness of the solution, in the opinion of some members, to restrict public information. However, the majority of the members felt that the proposed solution, whereby the Inspectorate and the Inspector could inform the public only on the basis and within the limits of the mandate of the President, was necessary and good. However, the applicant explained that it was not a matter of restricting information. They just want to lay down rules, who and how they provide information, which is also true in other bodies. With regard to the provision governing the placement of inspections into non-inspectorate bodies or other bodies, the members were particularly interested to know whether the proposed solution was appropriate. The applicant explained that inspections outside the Ministry would only be carried out exceptionally and that this solution did not mean the transfer of inspections from other authorities within the Ministry to other authorities. With regard to the provision relating to the coordination of the operation of inspections, where they were particularly interested in the role of minister, it was only said that the bill did not in any way take on the powers of other ministers which they had under law. The aim is to ensure, in particular, greater responsiveness and coordinated work, and thus to improve the performance of the inspection. It has also been pointed out that the inspector must comply with the instructions when performing inspection tasks. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is mainly the case with regard to instructions concerning the organisation of the work itself. [[...]] The Committee then adopted some amendments, which are also included in the report that you have received and proposes to the Committee to this honourable assembly that it adopt a proposal for amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the groups of Members are next. The first is Mr Potrč, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary. Members and Members of the Social Democrats of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspection Control Act will not be supported. The proposed law was not coordinated with the representatives of the Union of State Authorities before being presented to the National Assembly for discussion. Following its submission, coordination meetings were held and the views on the comments in question were transmitted in writing and later, according to the information provided by the trade union. In particular, Members and Members have not been informed by the Government of the content of this coordination, of the consensus reached or of the reasons why consensus has not been reached. And that would be the government's duty. For the Social Democrats, such a report and information on the course of coordination, on the content of coordination and on the reasons why coordination has not taken place on individual issues is a condition for consent to the law. In doing so, we stress that there will be no misunderstandings. Surely it is not always possible to reach consensus, but the coordination process is necessary and Members and Members have the right to be informed of how it has been and where the reasons for the different views are. The proposed law, for example, had a number of systemic issues in the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We have assessed these issues as more serious than we have seen in the report of the home working body, as the Legislative and Legal Service considered that, above all, the organisational placement of the inspection bodies could mean a reduction in their autonomy and responsibility, which is questionable in view of the repressive function of the inspection. According to our assessment, the answers given by government representatives on this issue were not substantive, but formal and general. Furthermore, the proposed law, according to our assessment, reduces the independence and responsibility of inspectors in relation to their superiors, thereby increasing the hierarchy of relations and the increasing subordination of inspectors in the management of their specific tasks, which is also a general direction in administration. This does not strengthen the independence, independence and expertise of the public administration, in our view, but creates additional opportunities for greater formal respect for the tasks of the superiors and thus for the introduction of greater politicisation into the work of the public administration. The Social Democrats' Group also drew attention to such solutions and their unacceptable consequences, but neither the Government nor the ruling parties listened to these warnings. The warnings and serious concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service have also been ignored and rejected by the general answers, and such content of the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the Inspection of Members and Members of the Social Democrats cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Once again, I invite colleague Kucler Dolinar to present the position of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again. The fact is that in the past, not so long ago, the work of the authorities has often been obscured in border situations where the competence between individual inspections has been unclear and that there have also been irreparable consequences. Therefore, in New Slovenia we support the proposed amendments to the Inspection Supervisory Act, which foresees the establishment of a Council of Inspections, which will be chaired by the Minister responsible for the administration. Probably also here, the competent minister is aware that he also has additional responsibilities under his additional responsibilities. The inspection board will operate as a cross-cutting coordinating body in cases where it is necessary to harmonise the work of several inspections and I hope that we can reasonably expect complex matters to be resolved faster and more effectively. However, the transmission of the annual reports by the authorities will certainly also achieve greater responsiveness and faster intervention by the authorities. Otherwise, existing legislation gives inspectors a pretty good basis and sufficient authority to conduct and remedy irregularities. However, problems tend to arise in cases where the problem is very complex and complex and requires a lot of effort and coordination between departments. Such matters have been open for several years, which is not good for the parties or for the country which is responsible for ensuring a certain level of order in particular areas. In these cases, too, we see the role of the inspection board as the authority that will determine jurisdiction and speed up the resolution of such matters. Part of the law governing the professional examination also changes. The practice showed that there were difficulties in employment when candidates who did not have a professional examination applied for the post of inspector, and this was a condition for employment. The amendment of the law provides for the possibility of employment and examinations during a certain transitional period, as is the case with other civil servants, and we therefore support such an amendment. However, it simplifies to the professional examination in the sense that it will be the same for all. Individual authorities, where inspectors operate, will define in more detail the specific skills of the inspectors in their work by means of internal regulations. The amendments also provide for the revised powers of the chairman or the authority in charge in cases where information is provided to the public. While there has been quite a heated debate on this provision on the working body, in Nova Slovenija we believe that it is not a matter of limiting the responsibilities or autonomy of inspectors, but of simplifying the process, and in particular laying down rules, who and how it provides information on the matters under way. The inspector, however, remains independent in his work, maintains his independence and decides on matters himself. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes, while also closely monitoring the work of inspectors in terms of whether all citizens are treated equally, or whether all citizens in the same factual and legal situations are treated equally and equally.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Preseknik to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u270	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Inspection services or inspections are a very important area. Inspections are those who are obliged to exercise control, each in their own field, and thus to prevent any irregularities and harmful situations that may also lead to very serious consequences. Control over the legality of the work they are doing is extremely important. Failure by inspection services or ineffective operation may have very serious consequences. It is probably not necessary to pay particular attention to events from a not-so-distant past in which the difficulties in implementing the legislation have proved to be particularly dramatic. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have repeatedly stressed the need for more effective inspection services or their mutual coordination and cooperation in cases where each individual inspection service is unable to resolve a particular problem or irregularities. From this point of view, we also welcome the proposed amendment to the law, which in our view is a shift in the right direction. Certain uncertainties regarding the organisation of inspection services and certain aspects concerning the competence of inspections and the main inspectors are unacceptable to the rule of law. We are all aware that in Slovenia, in the eyes of citizens and citizens, the rule of law is losing its place. People are increasingly entrusted with the judicial system and other state bodies. In this context, trust in inspection services is particularly problematic. The law must therefore clearly define the powers and responsibilities of the services and their chief inspectors. There is a lot of talk about the incompetence of inspectors, the political conditionality of their decision-making and the like. We believe that clear legal provisions on obligations and responsibilities are the greatest guarantee to prove the opposite and to effectively operate inspections. One possible solution for a more coordinated work must be the inspection board with new powers under the leadership of the Minister responsible for Public Administration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is an opportunity for a more coordinated work of inspectors, but at the same time it imposes a very important responsibility on the competent minister, as the work of the Council will to a large extent depend on the Minister's commitment and the way the world is managed. As it is said, a meaningful solution is in the direction of a more precise definition of the powers and responsibilities of the Chief Inspectors in the sense of directing and planning work and, consequently, also reporting. This sets out more clearly the role of the Chief Inspectors and their duty to monitor the implementation of the years of the plans. We expect that, on the basis of this co-ordination within the inspection board, it will be possible to speed up, in particular, those procedures that are long-term and to resolve those specific cases that are known to all, and no one is fully aware or able to resolve them. The proposal for a bill also contains some other amendments, which are less important. In deciding on the amendment of the law, however, it should be pointed out that the basic principles and objectives of the current law remain unchanged. It is particularly important that the solutions proposed do not affect the independence of inspectors. This is precisely the key guarantee for their independent and legitimate work. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendment. However, we expect the competent, both the minister and the inspectors to ensure that our inspections work more effectively in line with the purpose of this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u271	Thank you very much. In the meantime, young visitors and visitors joined us on the platform. Nice greeting and welcome to the Slovenian Parliament. We continue to present our views and to invite Mr Zagorac on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Welcome to the gallery and everyone else in the hall! In the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the draft law, as proposed by the Government. The reason for that is quite something. One of these was mentioned by the Minister himself when he said that the law as such would not save or raise or over-enhancing the additional performance of inspection services in the Republic of Slovenia. Let's do it in a row. The first reason why we oppose this law is that the practice of this government has become to this Parliament to propose laws that are inconsistent with unions. This can be seen on the committee by those who are members of the Internal Policy Committee. A number of opinions were written there, not as many as between representatives of the union and representatives of the state authorities. A minor complication, as far as anyone has noticed, may have happened even after the law was discussed, when the representative, I will say, the state authorities rushed from the hall immediately to the phone, and I happened to hear without ever doing it, I don't know who on the phone to explain what these young men are doing, representing unions. This is also one of the reasons why we oppose this law. Furthermore, I can say that the effectiveness of inspection services, if the Ministry of Public Administration is intended to increase the performance of individual inspectors, would seem sufficient if it were recorded in two or one article of the law. I'm sure the biggest problem is why the inspectors are ineffective because they simply operate in the place they come from. Let's be realistic. Slovenia is such a small country that it is easy for everyone to know and when they need someone, even if it is a bit bigger, I will express myself by saying "strapped", but the inspector does not see it because he knows it or is in the afternoon, when the inspector is no longer at work, on some kind of drink together or something like that. A fine example of such behaviour of inspectors, and we know that this law does not regulate this, this misbehaviour of inspectors, has occurred in several cases in recent years mainly in the area of Styria or, if I am even more specific, in the field of Maribor. There were quite a few problems there with young inspectors who "touched" up and down the Maribor localities and forgot to do their job, but they did a lot more for their pocket than for anyone else. The following example of the lack of employment of inspectors whose law does not resolve this could also be mentioned in the case of the notorious cases of the Lower Gypsies. That's where the inspectors didn't do their job. They didn't break the black buildings, they didn't make the decisions to break these black buildings. Why didn't they? Perhaps because of fear, perhaps because they are from that place, they are connected to that family in one way or another. There are too many times in this marriage, at least in my opinion, there is a tragic Lipa case every day, where there is a tragedy. And this marriage doesn't solve things like this. Although this law provides for some inspection examinations, it may also simplify some procedure, and in no case solves what it would like to be resolved in the field of inspection services. The last case that we see in the Slovenian National Party, and this law does not solve it, is the problem that citizens can only turn to certain services on official days, making it difficult for many to access inspection services. Above all, I think there should be closer cooperation between the state authorities and the union and inspection only than that. This cooperation must be at such a level that there will be no 'excesses' as has happened since the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy when we have considered the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. A piano on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u274	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. In our parliamentary group, we agree with the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Inspection Control Act and we will support it. Specific examples in practice show that the work of inspection services is often ineffective or that inspectors are powerless to carry out their tasks, which may lead to non-compliance by the addressees of legal standards, while also violating the rights and legal benefits of individuals who have been recognised by laws and other regulations. In view of the fact that the inspection is intended, on the one hand, to ensure supervision of the enforcement of the legal order adopted and, on the other hand, to provide feedback to the administration to be aware of the effects of the rules adopted and to formulate appropriate changes and measures, we believe in our parliamentary group that the organisation of work is clearly and unequivocally empowered and, in particular, effective coordination and cooperation between the inspection services is essential to achieve the aforementioned objective of these services. The proposal complements the solutions already in place in those parts that have shown certain shortcomings at systemic level. In this way, it specifies the responsibilities and responsibilities of the Chief Inspectors, details the content and procedures of the expert examination for the Inspector, which certainly facilitates the recruitment of inspectors and, most importantly, enables the coordination of the work of several different inspections. The news which has raised quite a few dust in the public is the management of the inspection board as an interdepartmental working body by the Minister responsible for the public administration or by its authorised person. In particular, there have been concerns that this policy will have a direct impact on the work of the inspection service itself. Members of our Group assess that there is, however, a possibility for policy to influence the resolution of specific cases, but we believe that the management of the Council by the Minister as a hierarchically higher body allows for a more coordinated functioning of this body, as well as easier decision-making of the proposed proposals by the inspection services or individual inspectors. We are also confident that the communication and cooperation of inspection services alone will rise to a higher level. We believe that, on the basis of the adoption of the novel, the organisation of work will be facilitated mainly by planning and assigning matters to individual inspectors. More transparent procedures also include reporting on the state of inspection, which is important for the adoption of further, particularly preventive measures. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the proposal for a law is primarily aimed at upgrading the existing regulation which has already emerged in the Slovenian legal order and which has taken place in the everyday practice of acting as inspectors, so we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I invite the following to the word of Dr Gantar on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, the distinguished Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The effectiveness of inspection services is, of course, a goal that we support. We would also like our services to be more efficient, more consistent and to implement the legal order and regulation in the Republic of Slovenia more quickly and better. However, we are not sure or, rather, we are convinced that measures in this law do not lead in the right direction. We agree with the legislative and legal services' comments that the type of provisions in the amendment of the law, as regards the placement of inspection services and certain other provisions, reduces the independence of inspection services. From this point of view, it seems strange not to say bizarrely that the Government and the Minister see that the effectiveness of the inspection can only be increased if we reduce their independence and I think they have a very poor opinion and a low degree of confidence in this service and in the people working in them. Of course, we are also disturbed by the Inspectorate's Institute, which is run by the Minister. It's not the institute itself, it's the minister running it. We believe that this is an unnecessary and excessive politicisation of these services and that this measure is in the context of all the measures we have already adopted in some laws. As you know, in the Police Act, we reduced the powers of the police administration, increased the powers of the Minister of Police, and so on, if you recall, the direct command of the Minister in certain actions in the Ambrus area that did not work out well for this country and its inhabitants. That is why we believe that this solution is poor and will, in fact, instead of increasing the responsibility of the inspection services, place this responsibility on the minister's political responsibility. I would like to point out that we have a different view in our Group of Members of the situation between politics, the state administration and, of course, inspections. We believe that the State Administration must act on the basis of laws and other regulations, irrespective of concrete political and preferences, that it must, above all, pursue a genuine and rational approach in this administration, that we must maintain a model of this administration that will not be subordinate to politics. Politics must have an impact. But this impact must be through setting objectives, through defining targets, through the requirement that, say, inspection services more consistently programme their activities, so that qualitative and quantitative objectives are also set. Don't tell me you can't stand them. He can stand them. And to monitor the achievement of these objectives and to ensure that the achievement of these objectives also requires responsibility on the part of the people responsible for the implementation and management of these objectives. I believe that the main source of the problem involved in inspections is rare resources, lack of resources, human resources, material and financial. In human resources, we must be aware of the fact that there are many inspectors, so I don't want to say anything bad; they chose their profession as a second or third option. I know, and we all know that a lot of people wanted to be something other than an inspector, and eventually he became an inspector, because let's say there was no other job. It's not good for this profession. If we have an inspection that has some status and some reputation, because the issue of inspection is always because it decides on conflict issues, if we know how to find such people, we will also have a good inspection service. Since we have good and bad inspectors, believe me, I know that in our organs. Others, of course, are also financial. Are they well and well rewarded? Also for the risks they face, say, construction inspectors, inspectors and so on. All of this is not dealt with in this law. It is essential to subordinate, politically subordinate this inspection in order to solve the problems of the Minister's will. She's not gonna save them. She's gonna increase them. That's why we won't support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u277	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the National Community will be presented by Mrs Pozsončev.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u278	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposed law aims to eliminate the inefficiency of inspection services in certain cases which have also been reflected in the public eye. Eliminating the lack of coordination between inspections, poor organisation of work and unclear powers between individual inspectors and chief inspectors. The role of the Board of Inspectors in making strategic decisions will be more clearly defined and a more precise way of managing and coordinating the latter will be more precisely. The problems encountered by certain provisions that have prevented the employment of experts in individual areas who have not undergone an expert examination from the general administrative procedure will also be addressed. The law will also contain precise and clear provisions regulating the actions of inspectors. I am pleased that the opinion of trade unions has also been taken into account in the drafting of the proposal and that this has also been ensured further. And I hope that we finally get a language inspector, too, because for free we are alerting the geographical tables, which are still wrongly written or not written. Still, we do not know where to draw attention to the lack of bilingual printing and even to the fact that they are breaking the law on the use of language here and there. So far, we haven't had an inspector for this, and let's hope we have one now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubeljšek has the following word on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u280	The Honorable President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, respectable council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are aware of the seriousness of the inefficiency of inspection and of this appropriate critical public response, which has been particularly demonstrated by the tragic event at the Lipa discotheque. It is likely that this tragic event, with the help of the media and the pressure of the public, encouraged those responsible to carry out a critical analysis of the reasons for the inefficiency of inspection services and of the substantive deficiencies and inadequacies laid down in 2002 by the adopted Inspection and Operational Implementation Act, resulting in a reduction in the safety of the public interest and in the public interest and in the rights of individuals, citizens and citizens. This is shown in everyday life from black construction to illegal interventions into space, interference with property, to other illegal and arbitrary practices, both legal and natural persons. There are several reasons for inefficiency, ranging from a lack of coordination between inspection services and their internal organisation of work, to the vague or inconsistent powers of the inspection board of individual inspections and of the Chief Inspectors, to a lack of or even absence of interdepartmental coordination by the inspection board, to a lack of sufficient qualified personnel. Even such a good law and the provisions laid down therein cannot take effect unless the necessary professionally qualified inspectors are provided at operational level. This has so far been largely impossible due to some vague provisions of the law defining the contents and procedures of the expert examination for the inspector. All of these major deficiencies, which are caused by causality, result in poor or insufficient effectiveness of inspection control. We therefore support the proposed amendment of the law in our parliamentary group to address the evident shortcomings of the basic law, and it does not interfere with the independence of individual sector inspections and their inspectors, but only the legal basis and additions proposed are proposed, which will ensure more effective inspection and measures. The adoption of the amendment of the law, which we particularly support, will ensure a better coordinated functioning of inspection services through the inspection board, led by the Minister of Administration and more precisely by the definition of the powers and responsibilities of the chief inspectors and supervisors, as well as some other important additions and changes, such as the organisation of operations and the status of inspections as well as of inspectors in the public service system. More precisely, the content and procedure of the expert examination for inspectors will be defined, harmonise and complement the area of offences and sanctions and others. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have also carefully examined the opinion of the Council of State on the proposed amendment of the law and comments to individual provisions and the Government's position on this opinion. There is no way that we can agree solely with the State Council's finding that the novelty of the law does not bring anything significant new, which would refer to the work of inspections alone. In the parliamentary group, we are confident that the proposed changes and additions will contribute to more effective inspection due to the coordinated functioning of the inspection services, clearer division of powers, improved organisation of work, better professional information support, better professional competence of inspectors, more precise definitions of competence and responsibilities of the Chief Inspectors. For all of this, we will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. We will also support the amendment of the coalition groups. In the future, we will also support all further legislative additions and concrete government activities that will help to further improve the effectiveness of inspection controls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u281	Thank you. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, she will present the position of Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u282	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The new law is intended to strengthen the coordination of inspection services through the inspection board led by the Minister of Public Administration. This is an interdepartmental body in which the heads of the 20 inspection bodies are sitting and the Chief Market Inspector will not be presiding after the new, but each time the Minister of Public Administration. This solution, according to the applicant, is intended to establish a link between the Government and the inspections, which should allow for the control of the operation of inspections and the identification of guidelines and strategies for the operation of inspections. It appears that the Minister of Public Administration does not believe in efficiency or trusts the inspection board anymore as a coordinating body and wants to chair or coordinate its work and the work of inspections. Indeed, this world has not done its job, and it must also be found guilty by individual ministers. Otherwise, it is in principle a good idea to raise communication to a slightly higher ministerial level, but that is not enough. Given that this world does not have the necessary formal powers and cannot have them under the applicable legislation, it is not possible to expect any greater progress. In view of the fact that the Head of the Inspection Board, under the provisions of the law, is not competent to intervene in a specific inspection procedure, its position can only be exercised through the Chief Inspector or its intervention is possible only through the Chief Inspector, who is not directly responsible to the Head of the Inspection Board, but rather to the Ministry under which a specific inspection is carried out, the question is whether, in view of those limited powers, the coordination of the work of the Inspection Services will be better. In our opinion, the Minister's leadership of the inspection board will not in practice lead to a significant improvement in the situation. The new law formally and in fact gives no new powers to intervene in the work of inspection services. The amendment of the law is supposed to constitute one of the measures to improve the work of inspectors, but this in itself will not lead to greater efficiency of inspections. The real problems of inspection are different from those of this legislation. Only redefining and human resources strengthening state inspection services would make a significant contribution to law enforcement, which is now not working well. The latter can be illustrated by the problem of the operation of the inspectorate for the environment and space. This ineffective persecution and punishment of those who black-handedly dispose of waste. There's thousands of dumps like this in the country. Slovenia has 55 inspectors at state level and local inspection services are not operational. They're nowhere to be found. They're elsewhere without jurisdiction. With 55 people, you can't repress these things. In order to dispose of the waste, it is the congregation’s turn, and for it it is the country’s, that is, the local inspection or the editorial service should also be carried out or supervised. We are also special in the European Union, where controls are regulated at least three levels, i.e. at the national, regional and local levels. In municipalities, especially small ones, they find that the employment of an inspector is not meaningful for economic reasons. The solution could be an inter-ministerial inspectorate, which should be the independent body of the Joint Municipal Administration, which should be established and appointed by a special decree by its chairman; otherwise, the tasks of the Inter-Agency Inspectorate could include the carrying out of inspection, municipal control and municipal government, and so on, how this could be dealt with more appropriately in our opinion. In order to regulate the situation in this area, it would require serious reorganisation in order to allow inspections in the new, larger administrative units or in the new region. Any administrative unit or province, while maintaining a vertical organisational structure, would have covered all the necessary areas. Only this would solve the problem of poor coordination, non-cooperation and inefficiency of inspection controls. So we're not gonna support this novel. Otherwise, Prime Minister Janez Janša, following a tragic case, announced that he would prepare or supplement the roofing law on inspection control and that they would adopt and amend several laws. So we ask and wait where these laws are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u283	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 26 and the amendment tabled to be conducted on the basis of the review of 6 March 2007. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Dear Minister with co-workers, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! As far as this amendment is concerned, I find it perfectly logical that inspectors do not need to pass the examination through those laws they supervise. In fact, the call for inspectors itself requires adequate education for a particular area and then, of course, a certain working time, a minimum of 5 years, that someone is even appointed as an inspector. Then he will have an expert exam, especially knowledge of the administrative procedure, and now also knowledge of the criminal authorities in recent times. However, I would like to refer to this amendment and Article 26, which deals with the competence of labour inspectors, slightly to the changes in this law, which are going in this direction, in order to make inspections more effective so that work between individual inspectorates is done better, especially at the level of mutual coordination. In this regard, Mr Minister, I would like to remind you, otherwise you have already said in your opening statement that you do not imagine that these minor amendments to the law would fully improve the functioning of this area. I would like to warn you that there will be a lot more to be done in this area. I can see that the work in the field of inspections, as you have presented, was somehow done there until 1995, when the inspectors were appointed to the executive councils and when they were somehow municipal inspections, but I assure you, although that appointment was not the best because there was a strong political influence at the time, and the inspectors had to go every four years, it is said every four years through the checks on the executive councils of the municipalities which formed these inspection bodies together. But I can tell you that this coordination ran at the time. However, when inspection services were somehow, I have always wondered why, in this way, they had split up through individual ministries, but since then, of course, this coordination has been gone and only with these corrections and the common inspection council, I assure you that you will not be able to do so. In particular, coordination between individual inspectors needs to take place very quickly, if you are somehow planning to move forward with some action, then here today I am telling you that you are actually doomed to failure, because the inspection is carried out by only one entity, in one restaurant and the same moment everyone knows. So the story's over then. So you will have to consider some adjustments in this direction. What seems to me to be the biggest flaw today in the area of inspection services is actually this division of inspectors, the inspection services are no longer together, they are operating across different premises, they are separate and, of course, it is difficult to coordinate work in this context. Also, the fact that individual inspectors run their own files that they deal with, then where these files are deposited, where they are stored, where they are stored, what is the support in the work of inspection services; all of this is, of course, completely unordered after 1995. I have sent you in one of the letters that I have sent to you and to which you have also replied, and I think that, if not otherwise, in the process of adopting legislation from the areas of the provinces, it will be necessary to arrange in some way for the individual matters to be recorded in administrative units, that the files will also be recorded there, and that the whole file will then be recorded after the completion of a procedure, when decisions and everything becomes legal, including in the administrative unit, stored or in another common place. Today I assure you, you have all over Slovenia, after various cabinets - I don't know if you know how many pending matters, how many matters are in progress and so on. So you will simply not be able to guarantee this review unless you re-establish some hierarchical structure that will have some common support that, if I start, will have, let's say, from the acquisition of what inspectors need for their work to the common secretaries and so on. So these are simply the reasons why today this work during inspections is not going as well as it should be. Even with regard to the independence of inspection services; I will say that if an inspector waits for the supervisor's instructions, of course he will not react to the matter as he should. In their work, inspectors must be independent within their competences, so that they can respond independently, quickly, impromptuly and energetically. This is what is supposed to underpin efficiency and non-barbaric procedures in the area of inspection services. I will conclude with this, I know that this is very well known if you are responsible for the functioning of this inspection board, for this coordination, then you will probably find out all these matters very quickly yourself. I believe that we will soon get another amendment to the law that will bring these split inspection services back together again, and then I believe that this coordination will be possible. Otherwise, this coordination will go -- this is what I imagine: you will call individual heads of inspectors, you will agree with them, the heads of inspectors will then call their heads of organizational units, they will agree with them, and the heads of organizational units will have the task of coordinating the joint work of the inspectors at the level of these units. This road is extremely long, and because I've been working in the inspection and I know roughly how these things have been going, I can't imagine that we're going to get through what you all want together. As far as this is concerned, and I will conclude, the event that took place in Lipa is just an unfortunate, tragic event that can happen again at such effective inspections at any time and anywhere where too many people will gather in one place and where these people with some pressure can cause something similar to what has happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u285	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u286	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, this amendment is logical and meaningful in terms of knowledge, enforcement of regulations and professional examinations. This brings me to this proposal, including the Public Servants Act itself, where similar adaptations are, of course, provided. This won't save the inspection services. I think that knowledge, knowledge of the areas of inspectors is solid in Slovenia. What is crucial is the problem of coordination of management, what the minister himself said is that it is necessary to arrange the second or third thing that is not in this law, but of course it is the competent or appropriate placement or independence of the inspectors. I will tell you in concrete terms as an experience from my ministry that citizens have addressed the Minister in relation to labour violations, employment and the like. There's always been a problem with how the minister should react, whether he should intervene at the inspectorate and say you have to do it here and do it. I told everyone to turn directly to the inspectorate, because if I intervened, it would mean that I intervene interestingly, politically and otherwise. Just in terms of organization. Therefore, it is this experience that shows that the inspectorate or inspection services should be independent and independent and not influenced by the minister. That's it. Now we have not done anything essential, just that some inspectorates have a competent minister of one, one, and one, and we have done little or nothing. This is where there is no change in the law and if we remember correctly, the EU's warning was at the time of our preparation for EU entry, namely the conduct of inspections in the field of nutrition. [[...]] And then they clearly warned us that there was no guarantee of independence because the inspection was being carried out within the Ministry. This was a key point. Not for content, not for the knowledge of the inspectors, not for their professional examinations, they had no comments on their independence and independence. We don't have to stick to some of the rules because we may be afraid of them, the superiors, but because it's good for the citizens, for the welfare and for the safety of the people. This is what must be taken into account in such a law. This is not sufficiently taken into account in Article 3. Besides, there's nothing to deny to the amendment itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u287	Thank you. Since there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening up a new option for the application. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u288	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In view of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that we have received, I would expect more amendments from government parties to follow what the Legislative and Legal Service has written down, and not just one that, in my opinion, does not solve absolutely nothing. In carrying out the presentation of the position of the largest coalition party, I have heard that the State is striving to reach as qualified and as professional inspectors as possible, but we do not know whether or not to take it into account because we do not know if it will read it because it will not be an integral part of the law, we note that further training and verification of the knowledge in this area is within the competence of the chairman of the individual body. It's not part of the law, it's not in the amendment. That's why I don't need such an amendment. I agree with the second part of the implementation of one of my predecessors, I fully agree. I expected the government to come with an integrated marriage. He always promises integral laws. I'm afraid that even in this law, if we solve problems like this, "per partes", we'll run out of letters and we'll have, I don't know, the Law of Inspection under the letter "Z". The general education of the social policy or the seventh level of education is necessary when it comes to an individual inspection job. This does not mean that someone knows the area in which he will operate. And ZUP is not an expert exam for an area that some inspector is supposed to operate. I agree, as I have said, with a representative of the largest coalition party when he said that we are striving for more educated and more professional inspectors, but not to take up opportunities for education and enforcement or to prevent them from doing so legally. Once again, ZUP is not an expert exam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u289	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u290	Thank you very much. It is a fact, and we have heard this a number of times today, that in the field of inspection services in our country, government, chaos or breakdown, I will focus only on labour inspection and only on labour inspection. The key problem that is evident from the field is, in practice, that inspection services are tied to working hours, I do not know, and from 7 to 2 p.m. Infringements in the field of labour legislation occur, and the Minister, from two forwards, on Saturdays, on Sundays, on holidays; when the work inspection is not on the ground or is not working. In these cases, forgive me when a person finds a violation, does not have an institution, does not have a person to turn to and who would be able to react at that time. Infringements occur, yes, that someone who works through public works or receives financial social assistance on Saturdays, on Sundays, on holidays working in a black market. That's what this law doesn't solve. Today we have heard that there is actually an amendment, and if I go back just now and only to the amendment, logical and meaningful, I will ask myself if it is true. Is it really logical and reasonable to write into the law that inspectors do not need to know the law, the legislation that is ultimately the basis for their work? That's what we're gonna do with this amendment. Is that really meaningful and logical, Minister - I ask. Finally, we have heard from the representative of New Slovenia that the professional examination must consist solely of knowledge of the general administrative procedure. You know, the professional examination or the Administrative Procedure Act, so-called ZUP, can only be an integral part of the professional exam, we are talking about an expert examination by a person who is specialized or will be shown by an expert examination to be able to perform professional work in a specific field. ZUP isn't enough, I hope you're aware, Minister. One more thing, and then I'll finish. Independence - I agree with one of the speakers in front of me who said that independence is the one that is very important when we talk about inspection services. But specifically in the field of social affairs, the Minister is competent if you want, or a higher instance of social inspections; and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, including under the former Minister, when certain infringements occurred in the field of the profession, was also excused for social inspection. Is it any wonder, then, that we have not actually come up with any positive solutions to prevent the abuse that has taken place? But that's not what this law saves, either, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u291	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u292	I'd like to answer a few questions. Of course, I said at the outset that this law does not save and cannot save everything, because the essence of good inspection is good governance and good management. But I'm surprised you don't mind what this law doesn't solve, but you didn't propose an amendment. That's a little unconstant. With regard to this amendment, the law is actually going in the direction of simplifying the Inspectorate's "examination", as I said earlier. Today, the average inspector must perform the following examinations: he must perform a general examination from the public administration; he must carry out a special inspection examination containing a general and specific part; he must carry out a special examination in the field of offences containing a general and specific part again; and he must obtain a licence for an inspector in any field with all these subjects. So he's doing a special portion of the exam for one area, but it gives him the right to work as an inspector in any other area. This really makes no sense. The key question is whether we want inspectors to work or just perform exams. This "equipology" has gone too far. I agree with the fact that knowledge in these key areas needs to be verified, but if we over-examine it, it's bureaucracy, but it's bureaucracy. So we wanted to simplify it a little bit. I very much agree with what Mr Sok said, which is that the organisation of inspections at local level is too scattered. Since the establishment of the new municipalities, when the inspections have passed directly under the ministries, actual coordination at regional and local level has been poor. The right solution in this area, the final solution in this area, is certainly the unification of inspections in the future or the provincial administration or in the legal district, depending on whether we decide on a single or two-track system. But I must say that with the formation of the provinces I see inspections along with other administrative services or public administration services at regional and local level. Here I fully agree with you, but of course there will be a time when the provinces will be established. Such coordination at national and regional level, particularly at regional level, is in fact some kind of bridge measure, until inspections are linked in the administrative district, either in the administrative unit or in the provincial administration. However, this regional coordination allows us to have in each region one of the heads of regional inspections that we can call and expect him to coordinate inspections when necessary. Because one of the biggest problems is the responsibility of inspections to one another when no one is responsible, and neither does anyone initiate a jurisdictional dispute. It is known that there is a problem in the field, but no inspection wants to arrest him, nor does any one want to reach a concrete solution to the jurisdictional dispute. And from now on, we will see exactly that the regional coordinator of inspections is the one who needs to see the problem that other inspectors have to report to him, and he needs to respond, and we need to agree who will go into action and, in the extreme case, call the inspection board or the president of the inspection board to resolve this matter at national level. I listened attentively to Mr Sok, who also has experience in inspection work, the actual review of the resolved, unresolved applications needs to be established, and these performance criteria will also include response and deadlines for resolving applications. Therefore, one of the benchmarks of performance will also be reliable how long the inspection reacts to the application and solves the matter and also sends the applicant an answer. Those who expect some comprehensive legislation or don't know what it means, you have to tell them what it really means. I'll say again, inspections have a law on inspection, which is a good law. Some corrections are needed, we have now brought this correction to the National Assembly, do not fool yourself with normative idealism in order to solve the problem of inspection by adopting five comprehensive new laws. Tell me where else you see problems in the law. I claim that inspections in this law and in the field laws have all the necessary powers and that they have nothing to say and that it is in fact only a problem of effective governance. This debate on working time is very meaningful, very well-founded and sure that we will open it very soon on the inspection board, I agree with this, violations occur 24/7, as it is called, it is 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and some form of preparedness or on-calling must also exist on the inspection. I support this, but it is not a matter of law, but it must be resolved again at the managerial or operational level. In particular, I would like to comment only on the indications of coordination or non-conformity with the unions, where I must say that this decision that you made with the Social Democrats, that this law was not coordinated with the unions, that this decision is incorrect: either you have been misinformed or you have made incorrect conclusions from correct information. The standard of harmonisation of this law was so high that I would say that the school case is how laws should be coordinated. 7.11. all trade unions, all representative trade unions in the state administration received the text of this law. We received their comments, took them into account, carried out two coordinations, and the last was, if I am not mistaken, 8.12. When we took two key comments into account, the two issues they warned us about. Although the unions did not wish to sign the declaration of consistency at that time, we were given oral assurance that the law was harmonised, but that we would like to make some more time if they made any subsequent comments. At the time of the adoption of the law, the Government also adopted the conclusion that there was still room for comments at the time of the first hearing, i.e. from 9 to 25 January. This deadline was delayed by the unions, and comments were sent in early February. Nevertheless, we have also responded to these comments, responded on a case-by-case basis, some have been taken into account and some have not. However, in order to go so far as to correct the law only if it takes into account any comments made by any inspector or any union, I am afraid that it would be a law that could not have any positive effect if the inspectors had written it themselves. Among these comments, which we have rejected, for example, we all know, we all have recorded, is, say, the idea of a union on the integration of all inspectorates into one huge, huge inspectorate. We have studied these ideas many times, but there are many reasons why it is not meaningful. And I'm sorry, but the unions probably won't dictate that we unite the 10 inspectors into one giant inspectorate and submit them to this or that ministry. Or, for example, they wanted to delete a provision that said that a citizen or the injured person could claim compensation directly from the inspector when causing that damage by his crime. We can't take that into account. That the Chief Inspector can only be someone who has concrete experience as an inspector, but also, according to our opinion, is too narrow and so on. I don't accept this criticism. The law was very well coordinated with the unions. As always happens at the end, some point remains uncoordinated, but in this case the Government decides, also gives its arguments and takes responsibility for the decision. There have been many debates, as I have been accustomed to, on the involvement of policy in the public administration and so on. I think that the bigger problem of this country is, in view of history, that the policy, that governments have been under-involved in government administration; not too much, they have interfered too little in its work. In what way did they interfere? In order to ensure effective, non-bureaucratic work, remove administrative obstacles, also respond to specific problems, because it is nice to talk about policy providing only a systemic environment and setting goals and guidelines and strategies, etc., but real problems are real problems in life. The problems people feel are not strategic in nature, but they are always concrete. And if there's a concrete problem in practice that no inspection wants to solve, then someone has to make a decision about it, and this is exactly what this law is talking about. I must stress in particular when it comes to following instructions, i.e. that the head, the leader, the inspection manager is responsible for the work of the unit he runs everywhere else, and that he must also be able to give instructions and guidance to his fellow workers, that this does not in any way mean at all the possibility of giving illegal instructions or interfering with certain illegal interests in professional work, etc. No, because the Civil Servants Act is very clear and systematically addressing the question of what happens when a public servant receives an instruction that he considers to be unlawful. This is crystal clearly regulated by Article 94 of the Law on Public Servants, which applies to all the same, to the Inspector, to the Counsellor of the Administrative Unit, which runs the construction business, and to all others. So, don't worry about [[...]] This fact that an inspector, like everyone else, has to obey his boss because the boss is responsible for his work, in order to mean that he must also accept his illegal instructions, and that is something that needs to be reacted very strongly, if anything happens, that is very unacceptable. Of course, we all agree, colleague Gantar, that the principle of functioning of the administration must be legality. Absolutely, but our government, and this government, in addition to the traditional Weberian administration, wants to say, the principles of action that come from the Austro-Hungarian tradition of order and legality in this area, to introduce some additional qualities, the quality of the new public management - you certainly know this area. Quality management, efficiency, quantifiable objectives and achievement of these measurable objectives, simplification of procedures, etc. Lawfulness is necessary and is a first principle, but it is not enough, it must also be a focus on the user, it must also be openness and transparency, it must also be efficiency, it must be all for legality or legality, but it is also important, so we have to stress this management all the time in public administration. I also stress that do not expect the law to save everything because inspections will work well if they are well-managed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u293	Thank you. I didn't see him being misquoted. Can you still sign up for Shirtz and Bebler? Okay. Mrs. Shirca, please, you have the floor. Mr. Potch, you will report in the next round. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u294	Mr Virant, I'm getting cold feet when you come to me with the thesis that the government has not intervened enough in public affairs or even in the work of inspectors in this case in the past, and when you say that the essence of good inspection work is good governance and management. Now you come with these changes, where you replace leadership with what you see, when it can also be guided by certain guidelines. That was a talk today. And the key problem that this leadership gives you is article 11, which has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, and Mr Mozetič, who is leading it, has not been able to listen to his thinking and even to our thinking when an amendment has appeared on the competent committee that tried to change this article. For the schizophrenic nature of Article 11 is that it is not clear whose competences or how and how we can understand the independence of inspectors. For you say that the inspector is independent in the performance of inspection tasks, that he conducts the procedure independently, and that he makes decisions and decisions in administrative and criminal proceedings, and that in the same event it is said that the inspector is obliged to follow the instructions and directions of the supervisor or supervisor in the performance of inspection tasks. Now the question is, let me give you an example. For example, the inspector follows the direction or instructions of his superiors, for example, to Lipico and conducts a certain procedure in accordance with the instructions we know whose direction it is, and also issues a procedure for which he is fully responsible, but it is not that of an independent inspector, as we can imagine from the old instructions, when he acted on his decisions and also conducted the procedure according to his decisions. It is said that we should listen to at least such a change where the principle of independence of inspectors and inspection can be clearly understood. Therefore, a compromise solution was proposed for Article 11, where it was stated that the inspector in the performance of inspection tasks was obliged to take into account the general direction of the supervisor or superior, but that that supervisor or supervisor in the performance of the inspection tasks on a case-by-case basis may require the inspector to carry out individual tasks and be signed separately. Of course, you have not taken this into account, so I think there will be a lot of problems in the future with this independence or too much, I will say, a one-way understanding of the management or dependent management that comes with this law when, in my opinion, the role of inspectors breaks down in their autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u295	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u296	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So already colleague Majda Shirca has pointed out the inconsistencies and imbalances of this article. The LDS Club then tabled an amendment for the treatment of the working body and was rejected, but this Article 11 is in fact very badly read, since the Inspector who will independently lead the procedure and issue the decisions will then be obliged to follow the instructions and directions of the chairman or supervisor. You know, as long as things run normally, there's no problem. The problem is, when a problem arises, an extraordinary situation and, after all, an inspector who has issued a decision cannot even demonstrate that he has actually acted in accordance with the instructions. This should probably be a written instruction or otherwise, or we do not know what its role is. And now I also ask this, in view of Mr Drobnic's debate. If, in some other matters, the European Union has pointed out the importance of the independence and independence of the inspector, I ask what our position is now, our government, the proposer of this law on this issue. Whether there are any instructions, we say "acquis communautaire" or something similar to the role and position of inspectors or inspectors. Nevertheless, I would like a more detailed answer to this question, how this will actually take place in practice. How do you imagine this independence and independence of the inspector, and you say that he was obliged to follow the direction and direction of the chairman or superior? Then again, here you were asking what we had in mind, which laws we thought should be changed. And now I ask myself, I have already said in the position of the LDS Club that, following the tragic case of Lip, Prime Minister Janez Janša has convened a consultation of the main Slovenian inspectors and then promised that the Government will prepare all the necessary legal basis for the activities of inspectors and inspectors and that it will come to Parliament with detailed laws, amendments, amendments to certain other laws that would specify in more detail the powers and modalities of the inspectors. Now I ask you, Mr Minister, surely you, the Prime Minister of the Government at the time, "briefed" him for that consultation with the chief inspectors whose promise was seized, and that is why you are probably the easiest to answer this question which laws we can expect; which, of course, we have to look at in some way, in some way, at some sort of sound, because we are interfering with certain laws by such drops, bits and pieces and then, of course, the questionable consistency of the whole system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u298	Not only did I "brief" the President of the Government about this meeting, but we were together with the President of the Government at this meeting because he convened it and I was there from the beginning to the end, so I know exactly what we were talking about there, and I also know what the conclusions were. Unlike the many reactions of governments from the past that have responded to individual problems in the functioning of the state administration by predicting some new system legislation, I call it normative idealism, we discussed at that meeting what to do to better manage and operate inspections. We have found that one of the possible measures, one of the measures is also a certain adjustment in the legislation, but this is not yet in the right place; because I will repeat the 15th time: Slovenian inspections have great powers under the applicable legislation and there is no excuse for these powers to be too low due to bad legislation. That's why the announcement of the day was like this, and I think even I was making public statements after that meeting of the chief inspectors, and I said exactly that. In this context, we started to prepare the law, we got proposals from all the inspectors because we asked them, "What do you want? What additional powers do you want? Where do you want to have the stuff shielded so that you don't have any problems exercising your powers?" We have taken into account all their proposals, and this is now the legislation. Once again, however, leadership is crucial. This management and operation of inspections, I am sure, will never be ideal for everyone to be satisfied with it, but it is essential that the Government, with every step of the way or that we keep trying to follow the path of continuous improvement. So that the inspections will work better, not leave things to a system of "laisse faire, laisse passe", let just in independent inspections things take place through established and run-off samples. This is also what I meant when I said that governments had previously been under-active in the functioning of the state administration. How many regulations have we adopted in Slovenia in the past that have been drawn up by professional services in ministries, but the policy has not given them enough attention and red tape has accumulated from this title, which now stifles our economy. How many areas do we have where, in harmonising our legislation with Europe, we have gone so high above European standards that we have certain areas regulated, such as these experts boasting, the most in Europe, the whole field of protection at work, but in great pronunciations. These lawmakers have also incorporated absurd solutions, absurd bureaucratic restrictions, which are now stifling our economy. And that, in some areas, in the slogans, 'the best in Europe' is a heavy burden and costs our economy. This is what I was going to say that governments have been under-involved in government administration and that they have acted too much on the principles of "laisse faire, laisse passe".
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u299	Thank you. I'm opening a new application circuit. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u300	Just a brief comment of what Mr. Minister said when he turned to me, on my performance earlier. The first thing is, in big things, we actually have similar opinions. Like you, I don't think it's a problem of law. That legislation is, in fact, relatively specific and that inspectors have a lot of powers and that the problem is actually a management problem, an important problem in public administration or in public administration in general, and also in inspection. That's the first thing. Another time. Of course, it is clear that we, too, believe in the Group of Members, that public management, as we have said, is an aspect in which we can increase the effectiveness of inspections, but we see this increase in a different direction; as I would say, in some way organise and increase the efficiency of human resources, material and financial resources. Personally, I would say that a key person is an inspector, an inspector, so the person who at some point has to make a decision is to decide and judge. And if we go to this aspect of whether she is qualified, whether she is committed and committed to this work, or she wants nothing to happen today, that we should not go anywhere, if we take this more into account, I think we can do a lot. This is mainly because I believe that you have solved the problem with the inspection world in the form of political volunteerism, political campaigns, activation. I think that the problem is not solved at this level or is poorly solved and draws you into some decision-making structures where politics and this administration and control should be separate. That's what I want to warn you about. I would, of course, like to point out that, in my view, regional coordination of inspectors is necessary and necessary. I would like to stress this in particular because it is really necessary to identify who that inspector is in matters where powers are being breached, which must issue the first decision to draw the matter forward. Therefore, once again, I would say in particular that the matter of the political volunteering of ministers will not be resolved by the Minister. Of course, in this case, I will not now comment on individual inspection decisions, far from that. But I would just say that if such inspection decisions as we have heard today fall, there is no solution to the inspection of the media inspector in the case of the newspaper Finance. It's not the law, it's not the minister who can prevent the matter. Here's an inspector, an inspector who has knowledge, ability, sober judgment, law, sensefulness and rational behavior. If it is not, nothing helps, so let us focus, ladies and gentlemen, on the inspectors, on the people and try to train them to know what and how to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u301	Thank you. Mr. Loveshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to make a procedural call, because we've been talking for over an hour now, but everything but what it says here is an amendment debate. We have only one amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups on Article 26, but the debate is on everything else, a general debate. The general debate that had already taken place on the working body was nothing special, not on the working body of the mother. There is no other amendment to make this amendment more substantive. This way I don't understand what we want to discuss and reopen some problems. Inspection doesn't work well, we all know that, and we agree with that. The novelty complements something that will be better managed, that better coordination, that there will be shared responsibility, a greater responsibility to make it easier to get professional staff inside. That's what we're talking about! And let's just make things better and then, after we see if this thing works, let's continue to supplement this law. What new marriage, what other marriage, roof marriage? We do have a roof law. That's one. And second of all, we're all talking about Lip's unfortunate case. I know this thing well because it's where I come from, I'm home. But Lipa was that unfortunate accident, but the public secret was that she was doing this discotheque in black and no one was doing anything. And even the congregation council even discussed this because the locals gave complaints to the municipal council, someone did not act, they did not act. Why not? Because they're ineffective because there's no clear responsibility. That's the problem. And I would like to ask, Mr President, indeed you are leading us to discuss the amendment to Article 26. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u303	Thank you. It is true that there are many and at least 26 articles and amendments, but it is impossible to hold a debate in the business context, so we do not insist on strict respect for the content in previous laws and not on them, because otherwise there would be no debate. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u304	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I think that the colleague of Žgajner, myself and Mr Minister at the start, were the only ones who thought about the amendment, and if we were to take the floor, it would be necessary for you to do so now, if we were to follow the rules of procedure in a consistent manner. After the Minister's first implementation, I raised my hand for the replica, I think I was misunderstood by the Minister, so I raised the replica, but as president and as those who hold the meeting, I thought that was not the case. Minister, when I was talking about the amendment or when you said, "If we're thinking that the marriage would be better, why hasn't anyone tabled any amendments?" I don't think it's your personality or your position in favor of what you said. I believe this has escaped you, and this is not how you intend to defend your marriage. You know that seven amendments have been tabled on the committee, of which four have been adopted, three have been rejected by the opposition, and you are yourself much longer in politics than I am, and you will tell me within two years and three quarters of this mandate, how many opposition amendments that could improve a law have been confirmed either on the committee or here. It seems to me that such reasoning is not in your best interests, not your position, but your knowledge, not a man who uses words such as normative idealism and the laws he advocates in part in French. As for the coordination and harmonisation of the law, and if I wasn't on the committee, I'd still believe you. I believe that coordination has taken place, but coordination has not taken place, because in that, I will say, I can now almost say about the excess that happened after the committee, but I thought that the debate was a little bit too gallant between the representative of the state administration and the union representative to be able to talk about this as a synergy, about some understanding between the union and the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr Potts, I'm afraid you don't have time to discuss this. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have not spoken to the amendment or intended to advertise, but you are indeed holding an explicit meeting in the context of the general debate, and in the context of the general debate, Mr Virant has insulted me when he said that I have spoken improperly about the issue of coordination. I have a document, 19.2.2007, which you, too, have, all from it to everyone, from this document, explicitly stated that I know that everything cannot be harmonised, and specifically requested that the Government inform us of the results of the coordination, which was the conclusion of this National Assembly years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u307	Thank you. Is there another one? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Potč, I have allowed two options: either that you have incorrect information by the union after this coordination has taken place or that you have made an incorrect decision. I will only say once more that the higher standard of harmonisation of a law that we used in this law is almost impossible and I cannot imagine. In this way, I think the legislation agrees that we have given trade unions the opportunity to make their comments, that we have taken into account a number of comments, that we have responded to any comment that has not been taken into account, and what is more than that, I find it difficult to imagine. With regard to this information, or the debate on some of the excesses that took place on the working body, I must say that I do not understand, otherwise I was not present, on my behalf, on behalf of the Minister, there was a secretary of state, but these excessions may fly more to the presence of a co-worker who did not at all come forward in the debate on the working body. That "by" -- probably whether you've heard the wrong thing or the hallucination or something, I think it's unworthy that you're reading something like that to experts from the state administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u309	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the debate? Yeah. Reopening login options. Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Given that we are all masters in respect of this Rules of Procedure, it is difficult for the President to demand what some say should be explicitly debated only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But if I go back to this amendment, I also agree with this intention in this amendment that "examination" in this area of inspection services is enough and too much. To essentially go all these - upgrading these exams with only one goal: to create as many cash flows as possible. I would like to say that this lack - when some think that something will be lacking due to the cancellation here - to make up for with the president's instructions. And the chairman's instructions are no news, the instructions have always been in the field of inspection services, which are general and specific. Like, for example, judicial practice is created in the field of judicial work, so, of course, also in the field of work of inspections, this practice is created, which then finds its place in the records of the supervisors' instructions themselves. Of course, these instructions are written, so there is no problem from this point of view. And I don't know how the inspectors would have acted on a case-by-case basis if they didn't have these instructions at their disposal, which somehow guide them, which direction they should be taking on a case-by-case basis. Of course, it would be problematic if, in the context of these instructions, we somehow spoke out on oral instructions that would be from case to case. This could then be the problem that some of you have warned about, but I think that through the interpretation of the law this is not going in this direction, but that it is known that these instructions are prepared in advance and that they serve the inspectors for effective and prompt action in individual cases when it is necessary to decide at the moment how to act. However, since the inspector may also cause great material damage by his conduct, and otherwise so, it is right that these instructions are very precise and do not give much doubt as to how to act in some case. I have no problem with this, and this amendment will be alone, and we will also support it in New Slovenia. However, if anything else needs to be added, something else may be added here until the third hearing, in order to know exactly what these instructions are for the chairman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u311	Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I must say that, as far as article 26 and the amendment or instructions are concerned, I have no problem with this if only the work of the inspectors will be better and effective. I think the Inspector's job really must be to solve some problem. I met a case yesterday in the area of residential inspection. The problem has been dragging for over two and a half years. The lady in some rental house just doesn't have any water. And the inspector pressured the owner of the apartment, gave him the right decision, the order, now after two and a half years, when I re-agreed about the matter to get rid of something, the case was dismissed in the resolution of the municipality. It is a drinking water problem, and I alone do not imagine with my fellow workers who are not as qualified from a specific area as the inspector concerned to be able to solve the problem faster, better and more effectively. And if, in this case, the directive was to be that the inspector should bring the matter to an end, why should I as the mayor punish someone as the owner of the apartment, if it were to be significantly better, significantly more legal, properly done by someone who is his profession. And if they go in this direction, to solve specific problems, then I don't have any problems with them. Of course, if the instructions are about certain individuals or personal matters, then there may be many things wrong with them. As far as the debate is concerned today, I think it was good and quality and I thank the President very much that he does not limit such discussions. For if we were only discussing Article 26, we would probably be at home now, somewhere warm, so we have undoubtedly opened up a series of problems that I hope will be resolved in the future for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u314	Thanks again for saying that. Looks like you can't get to the replica. The matter we discussed, Mr Minister, was by committee, not by committee. I don't care how many times someone's called on the government board. It's a shame if there's never been a time when it was necessary, but that's not my problem. As for hallucinations, I have to say that someone who is drunk with power can also hallucinate; someone also writes this in definition that hallucinations can also occur in someone who is drunk with power and wants to submit -- let's say, I'm just guessing -- the whole public administration in this country. However, if it belongs to hallucinations, it is your belief - given that you are so professionally defending laws, even in French, if necessary - in this definition also thinking with your own head. I'm very proud to be hallucinating. But even in hallucinations, I will not support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u315	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u316	This remark I made about the hallucination was about yours, I think very insulting comments about communicating with our colleagues, who I firmly believe have nothing to do with reality, reality. That's all. Because I don't think it's appropriate for you to feel that way about your co-workers in the state administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u317	Thank you. Is there any other interest after the debate? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate [[....]] [[adverts from benches]] What about Pozson? [[...]] Here you go. I'll open it again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u318	Thank you very much. I didn't get an answer to my question why we don't have an inspector. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u319	The rest of them are running a report. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u320	for the realization of bilingualism? [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u321	Mr. Secretary, please. You have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u322	Thank you. I'll try to answer that question quickly. We do not need a bilingual inspector, because we have inspections in each area and each in its own field must take care of bilinguality. If you take, say, bilingual in government, it's certainly an administrative inspection. If there is a problem, it is necessary to report for administrative inspection. Otherwise, I know the problem of bilingual forms in bilingual areas, we have already dealt with them, and we have agreed on how we will solve them very quickly. So all forms will be translated into Hungarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u323	Knowledge of language is a problem. Nobody knows a word of Hungarian.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u324	Mr. Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you may have some answers to my question. As far as the derogation is concerned, such matters are concerned, whether it makes sense for the Republic’s resident inspector to give way to a matter that is pure as tears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u326	Thank you. Please have some more time. Mr. Secretary, do you want it now? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u327	So at first glance, I don't think this withdrawal is justified. Of course, we should take a closer look. But this is a typical example that we could solve in this inspection coordination, and we can agree and look at what's really going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u328	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Only in the knowledge of the Minister. It's not fair of you to say bad words, ugly accusations, because hallucination, you know, tells someone to hallucinate, isn't it, over the finger. And I believe that you are also not expertly qualified to tell your colleague that he was hallucinating because he heard your colleague, the representative of the state administration, your ministry, speaking ill of unions on the phone, because they had a different position on the committee than the government or your ministry. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u330	This really isn't a debate about the law. I think the debate is over. We have wasted time or no interest, so I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.25. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving on to 10. Period of the day - This is first of all a proposal for a law on free and re-referendum campaign. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of 10 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrce, requested that the State Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Virant, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u331	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The rules of the electoral campaign govern all democratic states. The aim of this area is to ensure fair play in the electoral competition, equal starting points for all political parties or other candidates and candidates. Limiting the impact of money and capital on the outcome of the elections, transparency of the financing of the electoral campaign and control of funding and restrictions on the level of funding of the electoral campaign and on the reimbursement of the costs of the electoral campaign from the budget. In Slovenia, we have the 1994 Election Campaign Act, which was later amended. For the law in force, it is noted that there are a number of shortcomings which the Court of Auditors has always pointed out in particular. In each election campaign, when reviewing reports, financial reports on the electoral campaign, the Court of Auditors has repeatedly found shortcomings in the law in force. In particular, on the basis of these comments and these proposals from the Court of Auditors, we have embarked on an amendment, or rather on the preparation of a comprehensive new electoral law and a referendum campaign. The arrangements so far also do not contain the arrangements for the referendum campaign. So here is the legal void that the new law is trying to fill, so that the referendum campaign is regulated by analogy with the electoral campaign, but also with certain specifics. Following comments and warnings from the Court of Auditors, the current law contains illogical deadlines for closing a special account for the financing of the electoral campaign. This account must be closed within a period which does not allow or at a time when all transactions and all electoral operations are unlikely to be completed. The closure is prescribed two months after the elections, when transactions are generally not completed. The law does not contain an obligation for the candidate or candidate list to indicate who is the organiser of the electoral campaign and who is responsible for the implementation, in particular the financial implementation of the electoral campaign. So the Court of Auditors in practice sometimes doesn't even know who it can control. The Court of Auditors also noted that the definition of the costs of the electoral campaign is insufficient, that it is too narrow, that the many types of costs which, according to the logic of things, belong to this package of costs of the electoral campaign are not included by law. For example, the cost of creating electoral material, posters and the like. In some respects, the law has exaggerated certain procedures. This applies in particular to postering on private surfaces. Our view is that in setting up, sticking posters on private surfaces, it is crucial that the organizer of the electoral campaign reach agreement or agree with the owner and that it is not the State or the municipality that should not interfere. Nor does the law in force provide for the authority to control the correct, correct removal of posters after the end of the electoral campaign. We are all pleased to see that, after the election campaign has been concluded, the parties and other proponents clean up after each other, so it is also right to know who is responsible for controlling these rules. The law solves the problems mentioned above and partially revalues the maximum amounts, i.e. the limited amounts to finance the electoral campaign, and also partially revalues the reimbursement of the costs of the electoral campaign from the state or municipal budgets. I must stress in particular that this rebalancing is not perfect, far from it. Since the last determination of the amount to date, according to statistics, prices have increased, the price growth index 178, while the bill of reimbursement raises by 30% and the allowed consumption by about 60%, and some elements or certain costs that were not previously counted are included in the costs. I can say that the proposal is saved in this respect. And unlike the previous law, it makes a difference between the amount of electoral campaign costs or money that can be spent on electoral campaigns and the amount of reimbursement. So there's no return on money for an election campaign as high as an individual organiser can spend. Given that the rules of the game apply to all political parties, we estimate that it would be right to adopt the law with the highest possible degree of consensus, so we are prepared to listen to all constructive proposals and comments. We have already responded to the invitation of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, which presented to us a number of constructive comments and proposals, in my opinion. I will also propose to the coalition that the specific amendments tabled by the SD Group be supported. What's this all about? This is, for example, a provision that speaks of when the government can spend a certain amount of money on the referendum campaign. The amendment would limit this to cases where the Government itself is a candidate for the referendum, for in all other cases it can, for example, be an opponent to a referendum proposal by any political party and organise an electoral campaign, for example, against a referendum decision. We also discussed the issue of an electoral campaign in connection with public spaces and the premises of religious communities. The current provisions are very restrictive. We agreed that these restrictions should only apply to public meetings, or that there could be different interpretations in practice of what electoral campaign means, say, in the premises of a religious community or in some area of a public authority or public institution. There should be no public meetings, not, for example, a debate on political issues, but we are also prepared to adopt a proposal, a comment, an amendment allowing, for example, public sector unions to organise, for their membership, meetings, which are in the function of a referendum campaign, provided that they have such an agreement with their employer. It is said that if a union is agreed with its employer to organise meetings, meetings and so on at the employer's premises, why not also during the referendum campaign for its membership. Next, I say that we do not agree with any amendment which would have financial implications or would raise limits, spending on an election or referendum campaign or would have additional financial implications for the budget. The proposal to regulate the right of the proposer, i.e. to collect signatures for the referendum, to inform and invite potential signatories, and to propose that the National Assembly, when it sets the beginning of the signature collection and sets a deadline for the collection of signatures for the referendum, also publish this notice in the newspaper as some neutral information that signatures have begun to be collected that people are informed. The basic rules for the media remain the same. RTV Slovenia deals with the implementation of the electoral campaign on radio and television according to its law, according to regional law, other media must publish their rules for the publication of messages in the electoral or referendum campaign before the elections or before the referendum. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u332	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u333	Thank you very much. One of the key elements of parliamentary democracy is elections, whether it is presidential, parliamentary or local elections. With the development of Slovenia into normal parliamentary democracy, the competition between individual political parties and other political actors is increasingly at the forefront. This game is actually taking place throughout the entire mandate period, and it is particularly concentrated in the last month before the elections, which is particularly regulated in most countries. The specific arrangements of this period concern not only the financing of the electoral campaign, which seeks to ensure transparency of sources of financing and control over them, but also the accessibility to public information. This arrangement allows for equivalent conditions for all candidates. The law governing this area, as already mentioned, was adopted for the first time in 1994, and has not been substantially altered throughout the period to date. The changes in the organisation and understanding of the electoral campaign itself, as well as the numerous problems faced by the Court of Auditors in reviewing the reports of the electoral campaigns, have led to the need to write a new law in essence. The main novelty is that for the first time, it also defines the referendum campaign as one of the forms of the electoral campaign. The law brings important news in the area of funding the electoral campaign. The costs of the campaign, including all the costs of the electoral campaign, are newly defined, irrespective of when they were created or when they were paid. Candidates or candidates' lists must also indicate their campaign organiser after a new nomination on the electoral commission. This will eliminate one of the fundamental weaknesses of the old law when the Court of Auditors did not know at the end which campaign organisers did not send a report. The comparison between the 2002 and 2006 local elections is interesting. At the 2002 elections, 724 candidates for mayors ran and 921 last year. However, according to the President of the Court of Auditors, there were almost 80 reports last year less than four years. The bill removes the interim report, as it was not a real indicator of the use of funds during the electoral campaign. The amendment of the law also amends the provision of an article referring to the closure of a special account. After a new event, the organizer must close a special electoral account within six months at the latest and submit a report within 15 days of closure to the Court of Auditors, to the National Assembly or to the Municipal Council. This amendment removes the previous poor regulation when the report was to be sent within 30 days of the election and closes the account within 60 days of the election, so that the report did not cover all the accounts. The amendment of the law increases the level of spending allowed, as already mentioned by the Minister, who may be used by the individual organiser of the electoral campaign or the referendum campaign for the campaign, which will increase the transparency of the spending of the funds earmarked for this purpose. In the New Slovenia Group, we welcome the provision that municipalities must determine before the campaign starts the amount of the partial reimbursement of the costs of the electoral campaign to the organizers of the electoral campaign. In the parliamentary group, we support the increase in penalties for violators of this law, both in the area of financing and the organisation of an electoral campaign. In New Slovenia, they would be willing to support even more severe penalties for violators, as a possible violation of the law can enable a person to obtain a mandate, and for which possible high fines are not, as a result, sufficient penalties or inadequate penalties. Of course, both political parties' candidates and independent candidates must be punished equally. We have been looking for solutions here, and we are still looking for solutions, because this equality is not yet guaranteed in this proposal, given that the status of candidates or political parties is different from that of independent papers. In the New Slovenia Group, we have some concerns about the regulation of public opinion polls in the public media during the election campaign. In the last local elections last fall, we have witnessed numerous polls that have had a different effect or purpose to give voters electoral direction. In the second reading, it is likely that we will send an amendment to the other parliamentary groups to limit the publication of the polls to a longer period before the elections. Otherwise, in the New Slovenia Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u334	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u335	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! The referendum, expressed directly by the electorate's will, is thus the highest form of democracy and the right of citizens, is a form of direct cooperation in the decision-making and regulation of common matters. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that procedures must be clear and precise, that implementation must be transparent, that the results are unequivocal, that they do not raise doubts about the outcome or the course of the referendum. The same applies to any other election campaign. Elections are also an important achievement of a democratic society, allowing every adult to decide who will represent his views in the National Assembly, the municipal council, such as the mayor or the president of the Republic. Some of the shortcomings of the current law have been demonstrated in practice so far. Some of them concern the referendum. Judges for offences did not deal with alleged violations of electoral silence due to the inadequacy of provisions relating to the referendum campaign. Nor was the issue of financing the referendum campaign settled, and in some cases, the organisers of the referendum campaign used funds to a large extent, especially if the candidates for the referendum were not political parties, which were at least partially limited by the law on the financing of political parties. Since 1996, the Court of Auditors has also pointed out the inadequacy of the provisions relating to the financing of the electoral campaign in its audit reports to the organizers of the electoral campaign. Thus, it was not possible to confirm the completeness of the amounts shown because the organizer operated through a special account for two months after the report was submitted. Problems have also arisen in the identification of election campaign organisers, and inadequate deadlines have been set for opening or closing specific accounts. The format and content of the report themselves were also not appropriate. We believe that the bill before us is much more transparent and practical in terms of the area of electoral campaign, as regulated by the current law. The law seeks to follow the recommendations and comments of the Court of Auditors. However, we would point out that certain provisions should be further specified in the interests of clarity. For example, it is necessary to define that data should normally be communicated to the electoral commissions by formal applicants, and only exceptionally by the candidates themselves. In addition, we would like to clarify whether the percentage in Article 28 relates to the number of votes or the level of funds. Because in this case, we believe, it is the percentage of votes that is the basis for the decision on who gets the refund. So it should be written in a slogan, "lower" and not that the percentage of votes should not be higher than 10%. Our view is that the referendum and the electoral campaign must be as free as possible, while it is important to prevent the manipulation and abuse of voters by precisely defined provisions, and therefore we believe that any comments that are or will come upon the proposal of the law should be examined and considered further. However, we cannot agree, for example, with the comments of the Union of Free Trade Unions, which do not agree with the partial, this is 25% of the funding from the budget for the referendum initiatives organised by the State or by the local community. Where are they supposed to be financed from? Moreover, the most transparent way of funding is from the budget. The ambassadors and the saints are representatives of the people, so their actions are in the name and for the welfare of the people, whether it be an inquiry or a legislative referendum. We will continue to listen to the discussion in this National Assembly. We are ready to support proposals that will follow even more clearly the organisation of the referendum and the electoral campaign. Among other things, we are interested in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or experts, or in the claim of the Free Trade Union that it would be better to organise a referendum campaign in a special law because it is not comparable to other electoral campaigns. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group as a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u336	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u337	Your Honors are here! If they took for gold all the words of the government representatives who had spoken for this House of State or if they had taken the words of Mr Virant for gold, then of course they would not have come near the truth. In his introductory presentation, he said that, I think I will not be wrong when I quote that the law before us today, namely the bill on the electoral and referendum campaign, allows for some kind of Ferplai and that it is so in all democratic countries. But if we were to come from this assumption, which Mr Minister boasts and praises, then we would actually come to the realization that all the elections so far in the National Assembly, local, Presidential elections in the sense of not feral, outside democratic principles and, of course, were at odds with all the good and normal. Based on his thinking, then, of course, we can ask ourselves about the "fair" choices of the existing government and itself. From this title, it seems very unfair to us that after so many years, after so many elections held at different levels, local, state level, one hopes to speak about the fact that the elections held in this country have not been democratic. Allow me to continue with his next opinion the contribution of the Slovenian National Party. According to his belief, that is to say, Mr Virant, it follows from his words that the law before us today, which will be in the parliamentary procedure during the next period, will reduce the impact of capital on the outcome of the elections. If we translate it again in other words, it means that so far the decisive factor in the outcome of the elections has been capital. If we bring this into today's situation, or if that means that the capital has allowed you to be the minister. Was this the basis for preparing this law? It seems to me that such a poorly prepared minister who spends his time for such a type of person cannot say otherwise than "salaria" is not appropriate for this National Assembly. Allow me to touch the very contents of this law that is before us today. I fundamentally welcome the role of the Court of Auditors, the comments and the additions adopted by the Court of Auditors, which have led to individual amendments. First time. The elimination of the interim report, which has proved unnecessary, has caused confusion for both organisers and candidates, not least in the media. Another time. Extending the deadline for closing the special account to 6 months by including all inflows or all inflows and outflows, also making sense. It is, of course, necessary to ask the question below, whether the legal increase in the means of holding elections within the framework of the National Assembly, the European Parliament and the municipal council elections, which raises the possibility of having resources from, I will speak in the former currency, from 60 sitt to 95 sitt and for the election of the President and the mayor from 40 sitt to 60 sitt. At the same time, Mr Virant is teaching us, as part of the financial consequences, in the context of the reimbursement of costs, that, or in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, €120,000 has already been provided for the presidential elections, as regards the elections to the National Assembly, €305,000. However, I would like to point out that further, at least after our assessment, ambiguity which we hope will be defined as clarity and a clearly defined rule of law in future stages. According to our assessment, the law still does not address fundamental problems, such as lack of transparency, a lack of clarity in the funding system and the possibility, I stress, of abuse. Furthermore, it would be useful to listen to that part of the company within the Republic of Slovenia, which, in the context of the pre-legislative procedure, was not as successful as the Court of Auditors and which was based on or from which comments can be excluded from the content that the restriction of civil society is mainly in terms of the inequality of political parties and other market actors as defined or contained in the Act. According to our assessment, it would make sense for the next hearing to pay more attention to the so-called referendum campaign, which has not been defined in the same way as the other terminology resulting from the law, i.e. the electoral campaign. If anything makes sense, of course it makes sense to maintain the institution of democracy. That means a referendum. That we do not move away from people, that they unite in different forms and that we do not approach them only to political parties. We estimate that this kind of inadequacy in the existing law, at first reading of course, is still a deficit and expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to arrive next time with a more resourceful implementation of this referendum campaign. However, I can point out or say two more starting points, namely, that in the framework of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we will reach out to the 18th and 19th articles of the existing bill before us today, and we hope that further consideration will be sufficient for the Government or Mr Virant to use the religious premises for electoral purposes. According to our assessment, we will all have to agree on a few things together, the Government and the National Assembly, before the law can fully see the positive light with the support of the votes of the Slovenian National Party. As we say, in the first reading of the proposal, we will not oppose the law. We have announced some changes, and regardless of whether Minister Virant is ashamed of Slovenian national parties, of course this is his business, but he has also met with us at his request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u338	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me say, in introduction, slightly mockingly or wickedly, that I, too, will have some thought about this law, but I will be much more calm than my colleague, Saša Peca. If the minister left the hall because of his attacks, now the quiet soul can come back. I will point out in advance that we will support the law in the parliamentary group, because we believe that it is necessary, that it is also good enough to deal with it further and that some adjustments, which even the minister himself said he is willing to accept, may also improve. Weaknesses, which are called "unvalued means, poor transparency, numerous infringements, inability to act" and so on, are such that it would probably be good to address them. Also, the unregulated campaign regarding the referendum is likely to be a defect that must come from our tables. On initiatives, on the concerns raised by the Court of Auditors, the Ministry or the proposer reacted correctly and we have a law to discuss how to organise, carry out and finance an electoral campaign. Of course, this raises the question: What exactly is an election campaign? For us, an election campaign is just a means or a way to do what we all strive to do. And it's either a win or a good result. The result depends on a number of factors. It may depend on which party has a reputation already acquired in the public, it may depend on what media personality it has, may depend on the programme, may depend on the campaign, and in any case it depends on the funding. Those who do not have these resources cannot carry out the campaign properly. And that is exactly what I will have in mind, because I think that in our election campaigns and later in the functioning of political actors there are some flaws, weaknesses, or, as I might say, injustices. The law lays down the level of resources allowed to carry out the electoral campaign. The law also provides for the level of funds allowed as a reimbursement of campaign costs. It does not lay down the means for the functioning of political parties during the period following the campaign until the next campaign, because this is laid down by another law, the Political Parties Act, and does not specify how those political entities which are not parties can be financed during this period. Let me recall that I have been insisting for many years that this should change and that I have in mind the non-participating list and the non-participating candidates and mayors at municipal levels, which, as we have seen in recent years, are only being acquired and will ultimately have to come to the attention of political parties, that this is an important, relevant political entity, which must also have the right, in my judgment, equivalent conditions for political work as political parties. The campaign takes four years. Even if we define it differently in marriage. Therefore, political entities that are not parties have been deprived because during this period they do not have the resources to function as political parties, to appear in public, to promote their ideas, results and so on, what the parties are doing legitimately and legally. Even so, those political parties that have not been successful in the elections may receive funds for their functioning, successful and independent lists may not. We in Slovenia have municipal councils made up of independent ones and do not receive any funds. In theory, a failed party in that congregation has reached a certain minimum threshold, a means for its functioning. This may not be entirely right and just. But it is clear that the parties are primarily concerned with themselves, so I do not expect too much to make any effort to amend the legislation, even though I will also present such a proposal to the Minister today. It is possible to do this in such a way as to prepare a third path, the Political Campaign Act probably is not appropriate, the Customers Act by definition speaks only of parties, not of other political entities, and such a third path would probably be possible and we propose, not of myself personally, but of the parliamentary group, that the Minister should also consider himself in this direction. You will see that because these political actors do not have this option, and in some cases they are better. They are better off when they cannot be sanctioned, because the parties will be penalised if they cross the limit in such a way that they receive reduced funds for reimbursement and that they will no longer receive funds for the functioning of the parties for a year or even more. It will not be possible to take this away from non-party groups, for neither does the State give them anything, nor does the congregation, because the law does not allow it. But there are other flaws. For example, the flaw set out in Article 22, which states that the surplus of funds collected, for example, by non-participating lists, should be allocated for charitable purposes. We have nothing against that. But I don't know why they just have to do it. Why, though, is there no need to help customers in the charitable field? Or it could even come to absurdity. That a non-participating list of extra funds is allocated to a party for its own promotion to carry out charitable activities. And I think that, at least as far as possible, the amendment is to allow the surplus of funds from non-participating groups to target these groups to their parliamentary clubs or council clubs by municipalities and then to finance their operation. I would just like to remember because time is running fast, to Article 28, where perhaps some of the dictions written down for a word game that we can understand very differently. And when it is possible to determine the law in different ways, it is not good for legal certainty. It says that before the elections, the congregation can determine how much money can be recovered by means of which it can be understood so that it can be determined that only those who have been successful in the elections and have their own councillors or saints can receive the funds. However, this can also be understood by determining this for all, but only those who have been successful can. So both ways you can understand that. I propose that this duality be eliminated in this Article. To conclude, before I repeat that we will support the law again, let me say that I reject what I have heard before and what I could say that the Ministers are aprioristic, that even if they are willing to talk to the opposition parties, I hope they will also be willing to talk to the coalition, but that in no case will they give up on some of their ambitions. This kind of apriorism, of course, cannot be invoked in Parliament. It is Parliament's view that we are here to negotiate, perhaps to conclude a compromise, but not to insist that someone insists only on what seems acceptable to him, but also on the will of others. There was a speech about not allowing any increase in funding for electoral campaigns. Let me tell you that if non-participating political groups were to receive funds for the votes obtained, nothing would increase the potential funds for the votes obtained. If there were no non-participating political groups in the elections, all of these funds, substantially more than now, would have been given to political parties. He'd probably be in love with it, but we're not. We are of the opinion that we should establish equality between party political entities and between non-party political entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u340	Thank you. Mrs Marija Possonec will present the position of the National Community Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u341	Thank you very much. The current law does not resolve campaign issues when the referendum is called for. This weakness has been demonstrated in practice when judges for offences have not dealt with alleged violations of the preferred silence due mainly to the inadequacy of the provisions relating to the referendum campaign. Nor does the current law address the issue of financing a referendum campaign. The organisers of the referendum campaign spent largely on unbiased spending, especially if the candidates for the referendum were not political parties, at least partially limited by the Law on the Financing of Political Parties. The bill is therefore systematically regulated by an election and referendum campaign. In the first place, it complements the definition of an election campaign, which also refers to all procedures relating to the referendum. In part, the provisions relating to postering have changed, where the landowner or the owner or the manager of advertising panels authorises the installation of posters, the competent authorities cannot prescribe special licences for such placement. Nor shall the organiser be charged a special fee. The responsibility for removing posters and punishing violators is laid down. Transparency and control of funding sources has been introduced, especially given that the organisers of the electoral campaign have the right to reimburse part of the costs of the state budget. Candidates must also indicate their campaign organiser at the time of the submission of the candidacy, and so should candidates for the referendum, or other entities that organise the referendum campaign and are interested in the outcome of the referendum. The amounts for allowable use as well as for partial reimbursement of the costs of the electoral campaign are revalued, taking into account inflation for the period January 1998 and June 2006. As a result of moderate inflation growth, they will be revalued in future amounts by amending the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u342	Thank you. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! A number of shortcomings in the current legislation on the regulation of the electoral campaign require a new amendment. The proposed law is prepared in this direction to remedy the identified shortcomings and we will therefore support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. In general, it is a law or a bill that is substantially more transparent, and therefore its implementation will be more effectively monitored. The Court of Auditors, which is responsible for overseeing the use of financial resources by political parties, has repeatedly pointed to inadequate provisions that have virtually prevented effective financial supervision. Nor has the regulation explicitly regulated the fields of the referendum campaign so far, and in practice the analogous application of the provisions governing the electoral campaign has not been effective, since such analogous use of the court and inspections has not been accepted. The current law specifically regulates the scope of the referendum campaign, thus eliminating the legal void in this area. The practice has also shown that many campaign organisers have tried to avoid registering electoral costs by showing such costs in the period before the election campaign lasted, or they have been delayed in the future far after the elections. Now the new law does not allow for such a simulated display of costs, since it is stipulated that all costs referred to in Article 17 shall be considered for the costs of the electoral campaign, regardless of when they were incurred, when they were paid or when they were concluded in relation to individual electoral actions. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are aware that an electoral campaign is necessary to ensure that political parties, as well as other electoral or referendum campaign organisers, present their candidates or election or referendum programmes as best as possible. Appropriate financial resources must also be invested for such a presentation. However, the law must make it very clear what the electoral campaign covers, what activities can be used and how they can be used, and of course how much money can be used for such a campaign and how. The proposed law, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, transparently prescribes only the content of the electoral and referendum campaign and the way in which the campaign is financed, while allowing political parties or campaign organisers to prepare and carry out a good campaign in which candidates and programmes will be fully represented, the financial resources that can be spent in the campaign are sufficient for this purpose. Control over the use of financial resources will be significantly better with the new law than it is now, so the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we say, will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u344	Thank you. Mr Kumer will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u345	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Given the importance of the area governed by this bill, we will support the decision on further consideration in the Social Democrats Group. We expected in the Social Democrats' Group that the applicable electoral campaign law was passed in 1994 and amended in 1997, i.e. more than 10 years ago, that its changes would be even more thorough than those covered by this proposal. In particular, because the proposaler stated in the amendment forecast that the main purpose of the changes is to limit the possibility of harmful procedures during election campaigns. However, this list is longer, in our view, in the light of more than 10 years of experience, than is covered by these amendments and additions. We expected a more in-depth and systematic intervention from the proposer in the current electoral campaign law, particularly in the chapters setting out ways and means of selecting and spending funds for the electoral campaign and effectively sanctioning the violators of electoral silence. And since that was not the case, we have decided to engage more closely and focus on provisions defining a referendum campaign that has not been specifically defined so far. However, we have a systemic comment on the proposed text on the provisions governing the electoral campaign, namely to define and organise an electoral campaign for directly-loved authorities in the provinces. Also, voters and electorates in this wider self-government community will have the right to direct cooperation in the decision-making of the province, i.e. a referendum and a human initiative. As the starting point of the proposals for improving the existing text, we have identified the fact that the objective of the referendum campaign is not exactly the same as that of the campaign for parliamentary, presidential or local elections. The referendum or referendum campaign is a one-off act when it is necessary to bring electoral and electorate closer and explain the often complex referendum issue, in most cases the legal matter. Therefore, we could also say that the adoption of an electoral campaign with a referendum campaign has only a common effect on the fact that a campaign is taking place in both cases. Therefore, in the Social Democrats Group, we propose that the referendum campaign should be organised in a completely new special chapter and that the provisions do not completely compare with the electoral campaign, although it might be even better, as has already been mentioned today, if only in the Referendum and Human Initiative Act, because this would regulate all the issues related to the referendum and the human initiative. It is not worth noting that the referendum campaign should, in particular, reflect the functioning of civil society and not as it is with us, when in most cases it is a substitute for parliamentary parties in their coordination of interests in the legislative process, or, in other words, when the referendum is an opportunity and an opportunity for a parliamentary minority to work together with civil society to correct the individual legal solutions proposed by the government coalition or the majority in the National Assembly. And because, in the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, we have also had a very constructive and successful and corrective discussion with Minister Virant. He agreed with most of our proposals in principle and promised to take them into account to the greatest extent in the further consideration of this law. And what are the most important comments of the Social Democrats' Group? First, as I have already said, we propose that the entire referendum campaign be defined in a special chapter and not mixed with the electoral campaign. In this special chapter, we propose, through individual provisions, that the time of the referendum campaign be divided into two periods. First time. During the period of the so-called referendum campaign, it is time for the creation of a referendum initiative and a procedure for collecting signatures for citizens and citizens to call for a referendum. And a second time. For a period of intensive referendum campaign, where there are arguments on or against the referendum issue. We therefore propose that, from the day of the presentation to the President of the National Assembly of an initiative to collect signatures for the implementation of the referendum, there should also be an opportunity for the public to be informed in an organised manner about the collection of signatures. Special public information shall take place from the date of the beginning to the date of the conclusion of the collection of signatures. During this time, an explanation of the reasons for the referendum and the call for signature shall be made available in public electronic and written media. Opponents of the referendum do not have the right to free notice in the public media at the time of collecting signatures. In order to carry out the referendum campaign itself, we propose not only to limit ourselves to one organiser, but to propose that more could be done by the organisers, which could also be clearly recorded by a specific provision. Why limit the right to a referendum campaign if the plurality of interests is constitutionally ensured? So it is a limitation without a valid constitutionally permissible reason. It cannot, however, be the organizer of a referendum campaign to the National Assembly, the competent ministry or government or the local community when it comes to a referendum at local level. However, all organisers of the referendum campaign must be given equal opportunities for postering, media performances, in short, equal conditions for presenting their views. There was no more visible opposition from the Minister of Public Administration on these proposals of the Social Democrats Group. We had different views on financing referendum campaigns. The financing of the referendum campaign is based on the provisions of the Political Parties Act. The legislative proposal also limits the amount of appropriations available to carry out the referendum campaign. That's 0.25 euros per voter. If this restriction is defined with a view to a more equal fight between applicants and opponents, then this solution may be a good one. However, if there are doubts about this, then the issue of the timeliness of the intervention and limitation of the civil society initiative is raised. And here in the parliamentary group we have also considered eliminating the limitation on the level of fund-raising and spending. In view of the very text of the bill, which expressly and logically stipulates that the funds spent for the referendum campaign are not returned from the state budget, as is the case with the electoral campaign, of course, the question arises in itself whether this restriction, the setting up of the upper anchor, is at all reasonable. Nevertheless, in the Social Democrats Group, we propose that the funds for the referendum campaign should not be provided by legal persons in whom the state has ownership. However, the fund-raising report should identify all legal persons, regardless of the amount of the contribution, and natural persons, who contributed more than EUR 1,000. And another comment concerning the financing of the electoral and referendum campaigns. The regulation already in force contains illogicality which this proposal does not eliminate. This is a fairly strictly foreseeable control of the Court of Auditors over the use of funds at national level, while, on the other hand, this is being done at local level. Therefore, there is no mandatory audit control by the Court of Auditors regarding the electoral campaign for municipal and future provincial authorities. The appropriateness of this solution would probably be considered once again. And let me finish. Social Democrats are assessing the activities of the proposer to re-organise the areas of electoral and referendum campaigns, as welcome. We believe that individual solutions in the bill can be further developed and improved by the proposals and suggestions of the Social Democrats. Therefore, at this stage, we will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u346	Thank you. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Miran Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u347	Thank you very much. My colleague Dusan Kumer made all the essential suggestions about the work of the law on referendum and election campaigns that are taking place at the referendum. Minister Virant also said in his introduction that we had a conversation and that he agreed that some of the issues of the referendum were different and specifically settled, so that I think that too much repetition of this, if there is no special wish, would be unnecessary for others. However, I would like to express my expectation and desire that some of the additions to the chapter governing the referendum campaign will come true. This chapter is regulated for the first time, it is right that we have done it, but the referendum has many specifics that show otherwise than the issues raised in the electoral campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u348	Thank you. Mr. Horvath. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with co-worker. On my own behalf, I can say that I am satisfied with the bill, perhaps some minimum correction will be necessary in the parliamentary procedure. My fellow Member, Anton Kokalj, has announced that we are in favour of a change in the New Slovenia Group in the sense that during the election campaign, this is a matter of discussion, or for the last two weeks or for the whole campaign, there should be no publication of public research, either before the elections or before the referendum. In fact, we claim that research also shows that the voters of smaller parties decide for these parties in recent weeks, perhaps just in the last week before the elections. This percentage is about 50% or more. And then this is clear evidence that polls kind of underestimate them. We can call this a voter fraud. Why not leave the electorate with their own judgment, why not leave them in peace in some way, and consider why they might fall for it. I'm not saying all the polls are misleading. But why would they leave the electorate to fall for some, including the bad products, perhaps the purpose of misleading? The results of the elections are the results of the competition. Competitions on the one hand to attract the attention of voters and competitions for true forecasts of electoral results. Of course, different agencies are also competing with each other, which will be the most accurate predictor of relations in the new Parliament, if, of course, it is the national elections. Winning means some professional success and, as a result, for several contracting agencies. If we remember a little bit of the results and even the events surrounding the 2004 national elections, then, in fact, when we look at the agencies that did the public research, not the agency that announced the most accurate electoral outcome won, but the agency that missed the least. The election forecasts, if we remember, have strongly "cut" all agencies past. They missed everything. That must be the conclusion of all of us sitting here. Some who have declared themselves scientific, as well as those slightly less scientific, left, right, those who were made, for example, on the phone, or those who were executed on the ground. All of these studies, however, were combined to predict a narrow outcome and at least a minor win by the LDS. That must make us all clear. As a result, on these arguments, the New Slovenia Group will build and advocate that it would certainly be wise to consider that the results of public opinion research during the electoral campaign should not be published. I'm not saying that during the entire campaign, maybe the current time interval one week before the elections would have been extended to at least the last two weeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u350	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u351	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, electoral campaigns can always be talked about long and wide. And it's a different view of the way of those who come out of this story on the winning side than those who are defeated. However, there is no doubt that if elections are a holiday of democracy, it is necessary to ensure that about everyone, at least in the beginning, has the same table, so I think that the draft law is a good basis for further discussion and for further discussion. To make this marriage even better, I only have maybe two, three thoughts. As far as finance is concerned, it is clear that if everything is being auctioned, elections and "clean accounts, good friends" are also being auctioned, why would the costs of the campaigns be hidden if we all know that the costs are actually from one to the other to grow solidly. I also like this case that the state is not supposed to finance and the state-owned companies are voting campaigns. We could have upgraded the matter one step further. A similar story also happens at municipal levels where municipal public-owned companies or d.o.o.s, which have been established by local communities, of course, always support a specific candidate. It doesn't matter his color, but it's important that he's in power. It is also one of the deformities that could be improved and upgraded in the law. As far as removing posters by utility companies is concerned. Here it is always questionable how much this matter of campaign participants will cost, and if they are removed within a certain period of time and at their own expense, everything is fine. If, for example, they are not removed after 10 days, they should be removed by public utilities or by other companies, which, of course, will provide essential services, significantly more expensive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u352	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u353	Thank you for your word. I'll just say two sentences when I've heard about these polls. It could be because this is some suggestive and, of course, influence on the voters, but then we should make another move in this regard, a step further, to make at this time, 14 days or three weeks, even in some way "slighten" the ministers and the government in visiting road openings, bridges, etc., because it is also some kind of survey that is suggestively affecting voters and is not included in this Law on Election Campaign or referendum campaign. That's how it's a bit broader. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u354	Thank you. Does Mr. Secretary want some more? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters who wanted this and were present, you received the floor. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm opening the application. Yes, and you, Mr. Secretary, will have your word. Mr. Gulic, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u355	Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister. It'll be five minutes. Look, the elections have already been held in a number of cases at this time, because there is a final review, the last amendment to the current electoral campaign law. I must say that it seems to me that all these innovations of those who participated in the electoral campaign have so far surpassed existing legislation with all possible tricks that it is certainly good to look at this proposal as well. It seems to me that he is lagging behind what has happened in the electoral campaigns so far, when the law is in force, but there will be a new opportunity to escape the campaign. I agree with those who talk about how the referendum is significantly different from the elections and that is why the campaign itself must be significantly different from the election campaign. And I certainly support this part. In fact, I would like to know why you have decided to make such a minimum increase in appropriations after the voter. Given that these funds that you are now proposing would be too small for the 2004 elections after such a rapid conversion. I am sure that many of these electoral tricks are precisely the result of the fact that the money available was not able to carry out any of the kinder projects that were intended for the electorate, and that is why this was either carried out in the pre-election period or something else was going on. Those who had enough money and enough will, and who felt that the election campaign was crucial to the election. That's one of the things. Another that seems important to me is that in some ways it still does not limit the time of electoral, pre-election activities outside that month or 28 days, to the extent permitted. Many things can be done there and these matters should be restricted more clearly. Despite the fact that we all know that the electoral campaign is going on in some way, it is clear, however, that six months before the elections are signed, things are really starting and that there is a lot to hide in those months before the official start of the electoral campaign. And this should also be limited in some way, prevented, whether it is matters relating to the appearance of political parties in the media or so. Above all, it seems to me that a lot of problems would have been prevented if this sum per voter increased substantially, at least as much as the statistical calculation of price increases, if not even more, because, as I recall, at the time of the last correction, it was found that this was very little. And then, of course, people are forced to do magic in some way. That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u356	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u357	Thank you very much. I have explained something to do, and in particular I must point out that I do not think at all, and also in my opening statement, I did not want to say that the electoral campaigns carried out following the current legislation, or after the current legislation, were unfair or that they did not achieve democratic standards. I just wanted to say, in general, what is the purpose of the electoral and referendum campaign legislation in general, but I didn't want to say that we had so bad so far that we didn't meet democratic standards. There'll be no misunderstanding. Some interesting thoughts were expressed. It seems to me that sometimes political parties devote much more attention to the electoral campaign and attach much more importance to it than voters have prescribed. In fact, the best campaign for a political party, for a politician, for a candidate, must be what people judge and monitor. In the last 30 days, good or bad impressions are very difficult to change. I also think that people do not fall for these esteemed tricks by opening up sections before the elections, even though I know that this is happening before every election, but I think it underestimates people who think it affects the outcome of the elections. I look forward to a rather broad support for the law. I am also pleased that there are also some constructive proposals. As we have already discussed with the SD Group, I think I have already made very clear what would be acceptable to the Government, which amendments the Government could support. I would like to ask everyone who has commented today to propose them in a second reading in the form of an amendment so that we can discuss them. At times, the Rules of Procedure allowed the Government, in accordance with the first reading, i.e. the general debate on the law to be drawn up, to complete the proposal and to bring it into the second reading, now that is no longer the case, so I expect all of you who have had comments and suggestions to communicate it in the amendment form. I am also counting on Mr Rezman and I to try to clarify before the second reading, how this discrimination or non-discrimination of the organisers of the electoral campaign, or of non-political parties, is. I still think that no one is discriminated against in the event of the reimbursement of costs because each organiser is reimbursed in terms of electoral achievements, whether he is a party or not. However, as far as customer financing is concerned, other entities, I don't know, unions, etc., but of course each has its own funding logic. It is only under the Political Parties Act that the parties are financed partly from membership fees, partly from donations, partly from the budget. If we want to change that, we just have to go to the Political Parties Act. I still think that there are some issues that are indirectly linked to the electoral campaign, and they are not regulated by the Electoral Campaign Act, but by the Political Parties Act. I mean financing political parties, there has certainly been one issue that has already opened up to us as a problem and needs to be addressed and clearly addressed in the light of a vague legal regime. It is a question of which companies are allowed to donate to customers and which ones are not, or this is true. The prohibition applies only to companies which are at a direct state level, or also to those which are indirect. They're different interpretations. You know that we have had the case that the Slovenian Democratic Party has received some such donations from indirect state-owned companies and that due to hygiene and that there is somehow no doubt, this money has returned, although a considerable part of the legal profession has interpreted this prohibition only to companies directly owned by the public. This will have to be resolved in the Political Parties Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u358	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, at 7 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u359	Dear Members and Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 19. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 27. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 20. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 30. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 18. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 35. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 18. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 36. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 36a. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 19. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 38. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 15. I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 39. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 17. I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 42a. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 17. I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 45. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 46. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 19. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 51. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 52. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 54. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 55. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 15. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 68. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 19. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 69. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 17. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 73. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 19. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 78. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted. For 43. Against 25. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 79. We're voting. There were 71 votes in favour and 71 votes in favour. For 44. Against 21. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 83. Note: If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There were 71 votes in favour and 71 votes in favour. For 41. Against 30. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and thus the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 84. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Commence application. Check-in is on. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. You're giving up? Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I propose that you do not absolutely accept this amendment and that we retain the original version written in the complementary proposal of the Spatial Planning Act in 84th Article, which is identical to what is happening and which does not allow for any interference, in this case, I can argue that the Ministry of Finance will be able to obtain funds that, in my opinion, will assess what evidence, if adopted, will also wave its holes. In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote absolutely against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u361	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour and 73 votes in favour. For 40. Against 32. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 95. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 27. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 98. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 26. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: the draft law for the third reading be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We vote on this decision. There are 73 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the inspection control law. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 26. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 19. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we propose the consideration of this law at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-03-07-SDZ4-Redna-25.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 24. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I would end this vote by telling you that I should vote against more than one third, but exactly one third voted. I therefore note that the proposed decision is adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday 9 March 2007 in the framework of the votes. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'd like you to let him know I'm continuing the session. This concludes this agenda item. If you don't mind, I'd like to continue with the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - this is with the first reading of the Bill on Election and Referendum Campaign. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for an electoral and referendum campaign law, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 Members and Members, 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 25th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good night.
