ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u1	We begin with the continuation of the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. I can't tell you who's sorry for today because I haven't been informed. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Lords. We are dealing with the law in the framework of a regular procedure. And for this point, we have an estimated 3 hours and 5 minutes of time. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Minister Iztok Jarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A well-respected choir. Allow me to re-examine some of the arguments that led us in the drafting of the text of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on forests. Forests are a renewable natural resource that can offer its ecological, social and productive functions on a permanent basis when managed in an intelligent manner. The Forest Act, adopted in 1993, laid the groundwork for the comprehensive treatment of forests, which is achieved through forest planning, whereby all forests are treated equally, irrespective of ownership. The law introduced a public economic service that ensures public interest in the management and use of and coordination of public interest with owners' interests within the limits permitted by the forest as an ecosystem. The law introduced co-financing of various parts of the forest and also introduced a system of maintenance of forest roads. All this aid was granted to the owner mainly due to public interest, which also shows itself as access to forests, the use of forest roads and so on. During the 14-year period of validity of the law, it has been shown that the fundamental creations and provisions of the current law are in principle correct. However, respectable, especially in recent years, it is possible to observe two fundamental changes in society's relationship to the forest: on the one hand, pressure on the forest is increasing, and on the other hand, the interest of owners is increasing for a greater degree of exploitation of their property. Therefore, due to this and the analysis of the implementation of the provisions of the law, there was a need for some amendments and additions. The RS Government proposes a series of complements with the aim of continuing to allow: free access to forests, recreational harvesting of forest fruits, effective forest control, including forest owners in the forest planning phase, or reducing some bureaucratic barriers. Among other things, we propose: the regulation of the possibility of cycling and urchins along the forest trains and other roads, jointly identified by the owner of the forest, the institution and the municipality, the supervision of the Institute for Forests, the use of forests and other interventions in forests, the inclusion of forest owners already in the preparation phase of forestry plans, the increase in the area considered to be a forest, the deforestation of the forest for agricultural purposes up to 0.5 hectares without altering spatial planning acts, the decisions of the forest owner's establishment become multi-annual - so far they have generally been one-year-old, and we also regulate the excessive use of forest roads. Your Honor! Private forests in Slovenia are on average small, with only 2.6 hectares and, as a rule, divided into several separate plots. The production capacity of forest growing sites in Slovenia has not yet been optimally exploited, mainly due to the overexpenditure of management. For this reason, the RS Government, with some amendments and amendments to the law, wants to support the integration of forest owners and the establishment of machinery circles in the field of forestry and to introduce a ban on the sharing of forest parcels. Slovenia is one of the countries of the European Union with the lowest share of state forests. In line with the guidelines of the Forest Development Programme adopted by the National Assembly, the State should increase the share of state forests because of its public interest. The Forest Development Programme of Slovenia provides assistance to altitude and mountain farms and farms in areas where forestry is an important source of income to enable them to carry out their work in these forests. A natural person, a farmer, is supposed to take precedence over the application of a concession. Due to the aforementioned Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a preliminary right of the State to transport forest complexes of more than 30 hectares. In the area of forestry and hunting planning, the Government also proposes to streamline the integration of forest management plans and fisheries management plans into joint strategic plans. In order to ensure the impartial performance of public forest service tasks, the Government proposes a ban on forest management activities and the marketing of timber to forest workers during the working relationship. On the basis of the law and other regulations, it directs the development of the forest along with forest owners of the Slovenian Institute of Forests. For this reason, it is important that the Slovenian Institute of Forests, as a single professional organisation, is also effective in carrying out public economic service tasks. In order to improve the functioning of the institution as a single professional organisation, we propose a change [[...]] [[End warning sign]] Area units. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was regarded by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to present the report and the position of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, all those who accompany us are warmly greeted! At its meeting on 4 October, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food took part in the meeting of the Committee, Legal and Legislative Service, Agricultural and Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and Institute of Forests of Slovenia. We have also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and comments in the form of amendments to the Slovenian Institute for Forests. A larger number of amendments to the various parliamentary groups have been tabled, as shown in the written report of the Committee you have received. The Minister explained the purpose of the novel and the novelties he was bringing, which he also said today in the opening presentation, so I would not repeat them. The discussion was also followed by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber and the Members and Members. Most of the words were in the article who can appoint and resolve and how they run the regional units. The bill was intended to appoint and dismiss the Director of the Institute of Forests and to obtain the opinion of the Council of the Institute. Some considered that such a solution was that there was too much responsibility for the Director and that we should obtain the consent of the Council of the Regional Unit earlier, while most members of the Committee considered that the proposed content was appropriate, since the function of the Head of the Regional Unit was neither managerial nor management, but was purely for the performance of professional tasks. This aims to achieve a better and more efficient functioning of the institution. We discussed the amendments below and adopted them as a committee to Article 11, Article 19, Article 36 and Article 49, and finally voted on and adopted all the articles together. I propose that this novel be accepted by this esteemed National Assembly. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much for presenting the report and the position. We are moving on to a presentation of the views or opinions of the groups. My colleague Gez Juban will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary with the team. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Any marriage without regard to which the Government accepts it may have shortcomings and necessary additions. The same is true of the law that we have before us, that certain things may have been misplaced, and that it needs to be complemented. However, the chapters presented a little earlier and the way in which they are complemented are such that we have concerns about support and we will be deciding on individuals, members of the LDS. The reasons are as follows. They are mentioned in part in the presentation of the Committee on Agriculture, where we have highlighted such problematic issues. The first chapter is the one that determines the appointment of the heads of the regional units. So far, this has been agreed upon by the government, the ministry, and decisions have been left at the level of district units. Now the appointment is made directly by the Director of the Institute for Forests, where virtually one person can replace 800 people - as a result down below, and then further under the authority of individual leaders. The second is the status of these leaders, which, unlike so far, is indistinguishable from other workers in the administrative services of the Republic of Slovenia and are in a subordinate position. The third reason is that the law says there are no financial consequences. Of course that's not true. The financial consequences will be, and the law of this matter, as presented, will not be adequately regulated. In the process of enacting the law on the home work body, we were disappointed that, in the light of the most problematic part of the appointment of the heads of the regional units, the Slovenian People's Party has tabled an amendment to remedy these matters in an appropriate manner. However, the amendment was withdrawn in the procedure so that an inappropriate method of appointment remained in the text of the law. At this time, when this meeting is under way, we have also received an amendment from coalition parties, where we do not have a problem with the basic purpose, but we find it problematic or impossible to proceed on a regular basis when several questions are raised as to how to implement this amendment and we will raise the questions on this amendment in the course of the debate with the amendments when this meeting takes place or this item is under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. My colleague, Alojz Sok, is expected to present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. He's not here. Excuse me, Comrade Sok. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected minister with co-workers. There's a change to the Forest Act. Certainly this change brings some good decisions that we welcome in New Slovenia and will also make. Such decisions are certainly the removal of certain administrative obstacles; there will be no need for an annual decision to sue; these decisions will now be multi-annual. Then the smallest area considered a forest increases from 5 acres to 25. There are also 25 acres, but if we consider that we already have over 300,000 forest owners or owners close to 500,000, of course this number will decrease. The Forest Office, which employs about 400 people, will also be given some supervisory powers, which means that there will be greater transparency in this area. This law provides for greater integration of forest owners in the preparation of forest management plans themselves; then, long-term forestry and hunting plans are combined into strategic plans for a period of 10 years. It is also a very good decision on the country's priority purchase when it comes to surfaces of more than 30 hectares. This will, of course, improve the situation in this area, as the average forestry property in Slovenia today is 3 hectares, which is very small. It tries to prevent further distribution of forest plots, if these are less than 5 hectares, of course, again in function to increase the ownership structure. It is also very good to change the law, which means that there will be no need to change spatial plans if agricultural land changes - say less than half a hectare of forests. Then, support various forms of pooling owners, from machine circles, financing these associations and various parts in the forests. In Novi Slovenija, we also think it is a very good decision, which was probably in the sky and is not similar in Europe, that the employees of the institution were able to do business. So they could've gone shopping in this area. This law is now overturning, and perhaps this is one of the biggest changes in this law, for we know that many things have happened in this area. Of course, some decisions that have been made in the past remain in force. Thus, Slovenian forests were committed to the 20-year concessional management of forest economies in order to preserve all jobs, especially those that fulfilled the disability status. We know that at this time all GGs of these invalids have long since gotten rid of and become shareholders and that there has actually been a lot of money flowing into private pockets here. One of the things that will remain, according to Nova Slovenije's assessment, is that in Slovenia, which I think is at the very top of forest growth, we have over a million hectares of forest surfaces, more than half of Slovenia, an annual increase in over 7 million cubic metres of wood, we do not cut even half of that growth, and thus do not exploit what we think is the only real alternative to renewable energy, this is wood biomass. There is no alternative in bioethanol, this has already been shown, even less in the oilseed, the main alternative in this area is wood biomass and the energy of other renewable sources such as the sun, water and wind. But as far as forests are concerned, there is definitely wood biomass in the first place. Unfortunately, more of this wood biomass would require more labour in the countryside. On the contrary, it is true that young people are leaving and that they remain in rural areas where they cannot deal properly. This is certainly one of the tasks for our future, and in New Slovenia today we will also support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u10	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The 1993 Forest Act regulated the protection, cultivation, exploitation and use of forests and the management of forests as natural resources, with a view to ensuring sustainable development, sonar and multi-purpose management in accordance with the principles of environmental protection and natural values, the sustainable and optimal functioning of the forest as an ecosystem and the fulfilment of their functions. The law was subsequently amended to comply with European Community law. As the ownership structure of Slovenian forests continues to change considerably, because private forest holdings are on average small, as they amount to only 2.6 hectares, and because private forests are difficult to manage or the owners are less interested in forest management, it is necessary to amend and supplement the Law on Forests. Forests, however, are an important factor in rural development, as they are a source of wood and other goods and offer the opportunity to develop tourism and recreation. On average, however, only 60% of wood is cut in private forests, which can be cut in conjunction with forest management plans. This derogation is mainly due to the over-expenditure of forest management resulting mainly from the low density of forest roads and the high costs of cutting and harvesting and the fragmentation of forest land. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal to bring together forest owners because we believe that this will certainly contribute to better organisation, to more efficient forest management and to better marketing. Normal forest management will also make it possible to prohibit the sharing of forest plots. We also believe that changes in the priority purchase of forest complexes of more than 30 hectares will help to increase the share of state forests, thus achieving public interest, which is also mentioned in the forest development programme in Slovenia. This will also meet the precondition for helping high-rise and mountain farms and farms in areas where forestry is an important source of income, including by allowing them to operate in state forests or by allowing them to rent these forests. We also support the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group's amendment of the law because the proposed amendments to the Slovenian Law will give the legal basis for the issue of consent for the construction of simple buildings in the forest. The Institute for Forests, which has an organised public forestry service in all forests, will also be empowered to exercise control over the various activities taking place in forests and have a negative impact on the forest ecosystem. We all know examples: motor quadricycles, motor dreamers, other engines, various unauthorised interventions such as garbage disposal, excessive mushroom collection and so on. We know that, in practice, the basic mission of the public forestry service has often been compromised due to conflicts of interest. We agree with the amendment that seeks to achieve a ban on the employment of forest workers through the activity of forest management and the marketing of timber during the duration, the operation of the working relationship at the institution. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Forests therefore entails a system-wide arrangement for the integration of forest owners, the establishment of an effective forest control system, the rationalisation of procedures and the system-wide arrangements for the financing of preventive protection works; of course, something we do not fully support in the Slovenian People's Party. That is why, despite all of this, we will support the amendment and amendment of the law as a parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Posedel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, we really support the proposal for amendments to the Forest Act in the part presented at the beginning of this presentation by the Minister-designate at today's meeting, in order to support the efforts of this law to continue and allow free entry into the forest, to allow cycling, hedgehog, to enable events to work and enable greater exploitation of forests and to take care of greater forest control. However, we will not fully support this law in our Group of Members, because we are convinced that the final solution in some parts is definitely bad, but what is worst is that even on the home committee, where there was also the possibility of correcting certain solutions, there was no consensus and willingness to do so. I will repeat the words of my colleague Geza Juban, who said that a very good proposal was supplemented by the Slovenian People's Party on the consent to appoint the heads of regional units was unfortunately withdrawn. So we have witnessed a debate that has shown that when a proposal comes to the parental committee, if there is no agreement by the coalition representatives, such arguments cannot even succeed. We are therefore convinced that there are some bad solutions in this proposal that indicate a strong desire for centralisation. This is shown in those provisions which exclude the influence of the local community in the part where it is eliminated and does not establish an institution of agreement in the appointment of the leaders of regional units, and that also the provisions requiring the agreement of the Institute of Forests for certain objects which are in the zone near the forest are questionable. We are convinced that this can mean future stimulation and an extension of the procedures for obtaining certain consents, but in particular we have not received an answer on the parental committee who will write such consents, who will produce such assessments, given the well-known human resources structure of the Institute for Forests. What was most controversial in our parliamentary group at the time of the hearing is certainly the appointment of the leaders of the regional expositions, here it is the obvious centralisation and the power of the director to set up all the district leaders. While the Minister said in explanation that the Director wants a strong expert team, it will be difficult for a strong professional team to operate in the field if it does not have the support of the environment without the support of its co-workers, and this can prove to be a very bad solution in the future. In the debate on why such a solution exists, it was also important to know that there are some bad individuals on the ground, on individual exhibits, but it would be right to clear up such cases, to change personnel, but not to allow the Director to place all the heads of units on a new one and that - with a little cartooning - for an event, some public meeting in a local forest will also need the consent of the Institute of Forests and a little, I repeat, such agreement will come directly from Ljubljana. This is certainly appropriate for further good co-operation and what the Minister has also promised that this law would mean that forest management plans are being prepared together, because in this way, if local communities are excluded, if some who have an influence through the sacred institutions are excluded, this solution is certainly weak and therefore we will not support this proposal in our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party is to be presented by Bogdan Barovic. He's not here. The position of the DeSUS Group is to be presented by colleague Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Good morning. I will try to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the pre-emptive day, in a timely manner. Let me say for the introduction that we intend to support this law and that we have a much more favourable attitude to the forest law than to the law that will follow this law, the law on savagery and hunting. Otherwise, we think it is necessary to come from empirical and statistical data, which tell us what is the situation in Slovenia with regard to ownership structures, as regards the possibilities of integrated, comprehensive, smooth management, as regards the management of larger regions, we are not exactly in a position to be very satisfied. This strong fragmentation - even by owners who have no relation to the forest, in particular those who do not see it only as the subject of trade, which they have received in a way that they have not cultivated their relationship through working with the forest or with the study, they probably have a different relationship and the management of one of those areas, on those plots, is probably a little harder. Nevertheless, we can say that the situation in the Slovenian forest, which we fully understand in the parliamentary group, is relatively good in terms of what the wooden stock is, both in terms of the way we manage it. I think it is right, at least we think so, in the DeSUS Group, that our forestry profession, which is in the past and also now one of the world's leaders, and the performers should be thanked and commended for the way we think and the way we manage forests. In recent times, there has been a slight change in the attitude and quality of work, especially of the executive services, which is also understandable, although we do not support this, because profit motive is increasingly prevalent and the forest is seen mainly in one function, particularly in that economic function and in the function of cost reduction in exploitation. Well, as I have predicted, we will support this bill because it is relatively comprehensive, because it understands the many functions it has, and also those that many like to overlook, social, ecological, recreational and so on, and also because it is not quite acceptable only to those who see the economic cut in the forests. However, we have some concerns ourselves, like many other parliamentary groups, I will not crush this excessively now, it is not about appointing a leader of the regional groups, which we do not agree with, but that is why we will not yet break the law, and we do not agree that the role of local authorities in managing forests located there is diminishing. We also have doubts about the five-year decision, and that is why the majority support it mainly because it can be covered by the reason that administrative obstacles can be removed, but other problems are likely to arise because of it; problems when they do not cut down - those who have a decision in their hands - all in one year who will possibly cut everything in the last year and will be the numbers in the decision and the numbers in the cut are significantly different already because our forest is fairly growing during the year. We also believe that it would be good, and this has not been given enough attention if we were more involved in forest road management, so that we might have brought them back from 15 years, 20 years or 30 years ago, when we could all be satisfied with this. Well, otherwise, because I promised to be brief, the DeSUS Group will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ambassador Maria Possonec will present the position of the national community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u16	Nice greetings to all present! Amendments and additions to the law will support the integration of forest owners and the organisation of owners, machinery costs and companies in the field of economy acting in the public interest. The Slovenian Forestry Office, which has an organised public forestry service in all forests, will be empowered to exercise control, which will contribute to more effective forest control and also to preventing activities that harm the forest system. A legal basis will also be introduced for the Slovenian Institute of Forests to grant consent for the construction of simpler forest facilities in accordance with the regulations governing the construction of the buildings. A legal basis will be introduced to prohibit the activities of forest management and the marketing of wood workers of the Slovenian Institute of Forests during the working relationship. Preventive and preventive measures will also be possible in individual forest trees, outside settlements and settlements, and the possibility of exceptional authorisation of interventions into protected forests and forests with special purpose will be ensured. Forest management and hunting planning procedures will also be simplified, and decisions will be issued in an administrative procedure that will, as a rule, be more annual and more friendly to the parties. Of course I'll support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Comrade Franz Sušnik will give his position to the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Forests, we place public interest at the forefront of the law's emphasis on the principle of unlimited free entry into the forest, thus highlighting that eco-social function of the forest, which, in our opinion, is the most important function that it has already adopted in 1993, which has also laid the foundations for this comprehensive treatment of the forest, as an ecosystem with all its components and values. Slovenia is the second most placid country in the European Union. With over a million 200,000 hectares of forests we are special in this regard and this law corrects what needs to be corrected in regulating the management regime with this undoubtedly great natural wealth. The law responds to how to resolve conflicts arising out of an emphasised public interest on the use of this system for recreation, recreation, walking in nature, and the conflict arising from the emphasis on economic exploitation by forest owners. I stress once again, at this point, that we are putting the public interest in the Slovenian Democratic Party at the heart of the relationship with forest owners. Although the law adopted in 1993 was good, we believe that time and some changes require changes in the content of this law. As a first of these changes, I would stress once again the clearer definition of free access to the forest and then the harmonisation of the possibility of cycling and urchins in accordance with the agreement with forest owners, the institution and the municipality, which also applies to all events carried out in the forest. I therefore think that this public interest is further highlighted, certainly with the consent of all the affected parties. The proposed legal amendment also clearly limits all harmful recreational activities related to the use of forests. Here we have in mind uncontrolled driving by various motor vehicles in the forest. We also support the Slovenian Democratic Party's intention to strengthen the economic situation of these farms by granting concessions for forest management to farms that demonstrate this interest in high-level areas with limited actions. All 20% of state-owned forests are owned by the State and we therefore support this intention of the legislator, which is enshrined in the draft law, to exercise the country's pre-emptive right to transport a forest complex of more than 30 hectares. However, we are of course changing that forest management is a responsible work that can only be carried out by a public institution is a busy and well-organised organisation, which also justifies the proposed intention by the way in which the heads of regional units are appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. And colleague Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the parliamentary group, as well as the profession in Slovenia, Slovenia notes that Slovenia is a forest country and that 80% of the forests are owned by private people. This means that we must pay even more attention to this than if we had more national forests. Indeed, in practice, the implementation of forest management plans in private forests has proved to be significantly different from what is enshrined in forest management plans, for example, in state forests, implementation is significantly better and more consistent with forest management plans. This law provides for some solutions, which are also reflected in the fact that owners are supposed to join together for easier implementation and organisation, probably after that part in the forests, but in our opinion we should also play an important role here in the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which already brings together these owners and should, in fact, be concerned that the forest management plan is truly respected and implemented in private forests. Obviously, this idea and this task of the chamber have not yet matured, so that some parallel solutions are actually sought in this law, which may lead to even greater problems in the future. Nevertheless, we would like to point out that access to forests must be made possible, because the forest is an important ecosystem if it is accessible to all, of course under certain rules. The rules provided for by the applicant in the basic proposal of the law were a little too strict, since they practically prevented any event in the forest, while we also met with very large powers of the Institute for Forests, which, following this initial proposal, would also give consent to the detailed spatial plan of the local communities. So it's a plan that we're taking for the construction, and it would also require co-operators on the part of the foresters. We believe that this is unnecessary and too much interference in the independence and independence of local communities, so we have tabled an amendment that has also been adopted on the Committee. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the fact that such a form of organisation of the institution as envisaged, i.e. the directors or heads of the regional units, would directly appoint and withdraw the directives of the Institute for Forests under the new law. We know that the Director of the Institute for Forests is appointed by the Government, so this is a direct political impact on the functioning of the institution. And that's where we want to alert the two of us. Of course, this will likely make it possible for the Institute of Forests and its regional units to function more effectively. On the other hand, this is also the direct impact of policy on the functioning of the institution. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is therefore an even greater political responsibility, how we will operate and rule in the forests as it has been so far. I just want to briefly recall the events when there was even a restriction on the floor in the state forests in order to prove that concessions concluded with concessionaires were uneconomic and that concession contracts should therefore be terminated. At some point, there was an extremely present political interest, which luckily did not come to a complete execution. Let's hope we don't face such cases in the future. Otherwise, we support the granting of concessions also for farms located in mountain and hilly areas with limited economic opportunities. We would like to point out that this farm, or individual, has a priority on the basis of a programme adopted by the Government again. This is why we also expect to have a clear reflection on how these concessions will be distributed or prepared for the programme. However, we still believe that it is an unresolved maintenance of forest roads in Slovenia, because fees are too small a source of maintenance for forest roads. The Ministry devotes a few more resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but we believe that this measure is still under-processed and under-represented in forest management and we expect more effective measures in this area in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Now we are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled. The list of reviews of the amendments tabled is dated 29.10. We will discuss three amendments separately, first to Article 33, then to Article 36 and last to Article 48. I am putting to the debate first Article 33 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got five MPs on the table. The first is Ambassador Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I would like to point out once again that this is an intervention in a stable way of managing the state forests, which is not best, in our view, because the proceeds from the point of view of management are poor in terms of market prices. In view of the market demand, it is certain that EUR 4.5 from the Cubans received by the concessionaire is insufficient. By putting part of these forests in the management of farmers who are in a difficult economic situation in an area with limited factors, I am convinced that they would contribute qualitatively to rural development by substantially strengthening the economic strength of these farms. The priority right, as set out in the amendment, is exercised by such a farmer on the basis of an individual farm conservation programme, which is the basis for the preparation of farm and rural conservation programmes in the mountain and hilly world with limited management options. I hope that the resistance of the concessionaires, the 14 concessionaires, will not be too great and that they will understand the intention of this amendment and this understanding to demonstrate through the withdrawal of part of the forests they manage, even for this purpose. I am sure that the results of the management of these forests by farmers will certainly be better and, after all, it does not say anywhere that our farmers must be wages workers, or those who for small money carry out cuts and other works in state forests, and that profits or cream are collected by concessionaires who have obtained concessions in such a way or otherwise. That is why we have also proposed this amendment and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you, too. Comrade Vice President, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As well as the forerunner, some mentioned before him the irrational way in which the Forest Fund of the Republic of Slovenia behaved, as it was said, for one cubic metre of wood the country receives EUR 4-5. The market price, depending on the quality of the wood, is moving around around this banknote. 50 euros - If there is better quality, even more. €5 - €50, and the rest are some costs. Costs that are naturally strong cheering and so are in the past and for this cheering costs we issued 20-year concessions before the time. For 20 years, someone in 50 will be able to work four. The actual cost - I own one small plot with the forest - the logging forest comes in - again, of course, very indicatively, depending on the area as it is - about 10 euros, more or less, here somewhere. Thus, I pay 5 euros for this wood country and the actual cost of the cut comes to me 10 euros; the difference - 35, 36 euros. If we give this to farmers who live at a height, some without the forest, I am sure that they are only willing to pay half of this difference, because they will go into the forest themselves, they will earn the previous €10 and half of 36 will be left alone. We're going to have processed surfaces and those, believe me, will do much more with joy, enthusiasm, heart, if you want, work in these high mountain areas. And if there's anyone here who's thinking about whether or not this law would support it, as some have said, I think that's just enough reason to support it. Therefore, of course, I reject the obvious, the policy intervenes in what, wherever you want to do something good, always or at least the rules are found by someone who says, "This is too much policy interference in this." If anyone's making this clear to me right now because of what I said, I'm happy to sign it. This kind of policy intervention I absolutely support, and I will gladly support this amendment even if someone tells me that it is political interference in the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much. But to the word I invite the apostle Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister with co-workers. I'll support this amendment myself. I even think that the last paragraph, which tells us how a farmer enforces a priority right, is a bureaucratic obstacle, which is totally unnecessary, but so be it. See, Slovenian farmer is the biggest lover of Slovenian forests and with the greatest love of working in the woods and has also preserved them in the form we inherited. The Slovenian farmer is also the best guard of Slovenian territory and it is sad that years ago, by granting 20-year concessions, we took this role away from him to a large extent and that we granted it to create personal profits and money and in some way privatisation of this, including forests, by those who do not have a basic connection to the forest, love and residence in this area. And because of this, there are urgent changes in this area, a fact which my predecessors have already pointed out that the state of forest management does not receive virtually anything, that the situation in relation to previous forest economies, which have been largely exposed to the Judgments, management of them, has been financed by the Resurrection, that is to say, from this, but by farmers who have been oppressed. Such a condition is largely preserved in some way. Now certain political forces are being financed through this, and it is not surprising that they are so violently defending all of this, despite the fact that the state is suffering from loss of income, that it does not receive any of this. We know how this is going, and this situation needs to start changing. The country lost enormously, the money went unknowingly, and they are very loud and very loud, and they have the power to advertise in newspapers and everything, as will be seen in the next marriage. Such a situation is not in favour of this country, and we must send a clear message that, in order to ensure that the Slovenian farmer who has preserved Slovenia is largely deserving to remain the master, because the farmer will not invest this money for luxury, for I do not know what, but will return the money to the forests, to the arrangements of the village and so on. However, there is a significant difference in how money is reinvested by those who have easily received a forest concession. And Slovenian farmer is also the best ecologist, the best and also the greatest protector of public interest, significantly more than these tycoons some who have received special rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much. But to the word I call on Ambassador Mir Petk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, everyone in this room! I'll also talk about Article 33 of the amendment myself, but let me evaluate the law as a whole before that. I think he's very good, he's very advanced and he seems to support him, and I'm disturbed by what the opposition colleagues have already pointed out, the appointment of the head of the Regional Units of the Institute of Forests. In my opinion, this article is not well thought out, unfortunately, as has already been mentioned, it is also not an amendment and I think it leads to centralisation instead of decentralisation. In Slovenia, we are all talking about the provinces, regionalisation, and this article is going in the opposite direction. If the Director of the Institute of Forests fails to coordinate its directors or heads of regional units, this is his fault and therefore does not have to interfere in this way with the law. So much for that. Article 33 and the amendment, however, I think it is historic for a Slovenian farmer. In the past, the Union of Communists took something from farmers, but this is the first time that the country has given the farmer something. For the sake of the history of this seventh paragraph, this amendment must be read in its entirety: "A natural person who is a farmer in accordance with the rules governing the movement of agricultural land and actively masters on a farm in a mountain or hilly world with limited management options may exercise a priority in granting a concession for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Notwithstanding the provisions of the law governing the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the beneficiaries referred to in this paragraph shall have the right of priority in granting a concession for the exploitation of forests from previous concessionaires. The right of priority is exercised by a natural person on the basis of an individual farm conservation programme, which is the basis for the preparation of a farm and rural conservation programme in the mountain and hilly world with limited management possibilities." Whoever meets farmers in these high mountain areas will understand what this amendment and the amendment to this article mean. I have already asked the Minister about this in the oral question, and he was still a very new, new Minister, who also specifically and well answered this question. This topic is now also covered in this Article. Carinthia farms have been waiting for such an offer for decades to come. According to some estimates, there are 30 farmers in Koroška who would need a forest. The farmer Petrič from Ludarski, at a height of 1,300 meters, has almost a "loft coat", has some land, around him is a state forest, and himself buys a macesen to cover the roof with "shinkel". It pays a lot of money, in Koroška, where almost 70% of the landscape is forested. In Koroška, where two of the most situated farms are in Slovenia, this is with Jekl and Bokovnik. I am sure that these farmers will be very well-governed if the state allows them to rent or rent or, at the final stage, also to buy this forest, to work carefully with this forest and not to interfere with some of the steel monsters that the Korosks call "iron cholers". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much. To the word of the messenger, Gezo Juban. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you very much. First of all, let me remind you that I already said in the presentation of the parliamentary group that we have no problem in bringing this solution into law. However, we have some questions about the content of this amendment. With this, I would also like to say, on behalf of myself, that it is necessary to acknowledge that Mr Minister has made an effort to present the law itself after the parliamentary groups, with the cooperation of Mr Regnja and Drasler, and that the road was drawn in such a way that we said we would not mind if it were as glass as it was set up. In fact, the amendment of the People's Party was also announced and we said that the matter could be acceptable to us as well. However, after that, what happened was happening, and there are a lot of us and too many of us in this Chamber, including colleagues from coalition parties, who are alerting us to what we said. Since we were in the amendment to Article 33, we said that we had some questions or that what we had heard a little while ago would be as follows. 20-year concession contracts do not happen to mean that you can do what you want in the forest. And each year’s interventions by the competent services are such that they can control, control and establish order. Unlike the contractual works in the forests, which are something else and do not cover the concessionaire's obligations - what are covered by concession contracts, and I expect this part to be resolved as elsewhere. Secondly, I hope you will not ask the operators of €36 for the cut mass. I agree with my colleague, Mirk Zammernik, that the relationship between 5 and 50 can be true and that he is right, and here we have often agreed that something is wrong with him. However, I have the feeling that in three years this wrong has gone wrong, including by interfering with the concession contracts and by monitoring their implementation. As far as Article 33 is concerned, my questions are as follows. Limited options - means a large part of Slovenia; in particular, because forests are under conditions with limited production options, and it is true - that I am probably among the many who know the situation in which people still live - and that something needs to be done in these conditions also with the help of state forests. That there wouldn't be a dilemma here. A month ago we had, a month or two at the most, an amendment to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. That's where we could have resolved this matter in a qualified manner. Now we're interfering with one law in another law, and I hope it doesn't go nowhere. I want this one saved to go through. Nothing's said to what extent. It is also not said whether it will be a contractual relationship or a concessional relationship and perhaps this should be settled in the law, because those who know one way or another know that it is an important difference and that these matters should be resolved. This farm conservation programme, which is the basis for the preparation of the farm and rural conservation programme, whether we have and will do this and to what extent we will do it. It means that there are quite a few questions before these people, for whom colleagues rightly point out, because they come from such environments, in order to find a solution, so that due to an unfinished law or this amendment to this article the matter will not be put on hold again and that those people who expect a smart solution to their being in impossible conditions should wait again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since there's still a desire for a debate, I'm going to reopen the circle. I'm asking you to sign up. We have seven interviewees reported. Member Drago Koren has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u32	Good afternoon, Mr. Minister. Messengers and Members! First of all, I must say and express my joy that we are discussing today in the National Assembly this law, which is on the agenda. I would like to highlight, above all, before I turn to the amendment itself, one thing. I am pleased to keep this free access to forests in law, because it is right that all citizens in the Republic of Slovenia have the opportunity to exploit these general goods for recreational purposes and so on. In doing so, however, I must say and point out one important point, to the question of who in our vast forests will actually exercise control over how this free access to forests is being implemented. Here I must draw attention to the problem, in particular our beautiful Smrekovec, which is abundantly grown with forests and beautiful trees. But what has been happening in this area in recent years is no longer normal for Slovenia. We have discussed this matter several times in the municipal council in the congregation of Šostanj, where Smrekovec belongs. From wild camping to countless picnics, anywhere in these spruce forests, gathering, smoking, leaving the trash alone, not to mention. In addition, there are other things going on here, driving with motors, with "crossers", with cars on the road, with field vehicles, quadricycles and winters with motor sleeps, which certainly does not belong in the woods. It's not fair to nature, it's not fair to animals living in these places. Right now, we're not able to handle this thing in a normal way. There are also accidents, we know, in the last winter what happened in the motor sled ride. So, I am in favour of people having free access, but I say free access under the rules that we have set up for this. Let me move on to the amendment to Article 33. I think the amendment is good, necessary. However, I think that, as far as these 20-year concessions are concerned, I think a mistake was made at the time that the Slovenian farmer should have this possibility before, not only after 20 years of obtaining the former GGs. The Slovenian farmer is one who can manage nature, who can exploit it, and I am sure that the Slovenian country would also have more than the concessions that our farmers would receive. I will gladly support this amendment and allow the Slovenian high-rise farmer to stay and develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Member Stanek Pike. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. I also believe that the 20-year award of concession to former GGs was a mistake and that it is better that concessions are generally shorter. Why? Therefore, for the first time: because the concessionaire is trying to obtain the concession next time. If this time is too long, it has to prove mistakes and sometimes it's hard to prove you. That is why I support and also in the world there is such a practice that concessions are shorter. But if this is the case, as in our case, with the concession being supported by a high-rise farmer, I am even more pleased. Why? Because I've always supported rural development. And also in this way we will be able to preserve the development of the Slovenian countryside in those parts of Slovenia where people are difficult to live, where small incomes are. In fact, these farmers are already specialized in forest work and are already doing these works in their own forest or through other forms. Therefore, I am pleased to support this amendment and I hope that it will live in practice to deliver the right results, but the correct results are the preservation of the Slovenian countryside. All I can say is that when the Slovenian countryside is extinct, it will be the end of the Slovenian nation, then it will be no more. That's why we all have to work together to keep it safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My colleague, Bojan Homan, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I am pleased to support this amendment because it corrects the injustices of Slovenian farmers who have been made in the past. If we look back into the previous country, the system has done everything possible to destroy the Slovenian farmer. Slovenian farmers were made half-farms, these farmers were forced to drive from high-mountain farms to the valley, the country offered them virtually no subsidies, nothing. Everyone else was better taken care of, only this high-rise farmer. When an elderly gentleman told me about his home in Poland, he said, "My heart was sore when the workers from the former republics came up. They were offered an apartment, they offered them a cultural event in their language, they offered them transportation, for us, hosts, to insist on farms to improve our standard a little bit, and there was no listening." And if now this amendment, or this law, is at least trying to correct these injustices that have been committed to the Slovenian farmer, especially in the Highlands, that he has the opportunity to obtain a concession for governance in the state forests to survive, to breathe freely, to come to life, then I think we have corrected some of the injustices, so this amendment or the whole law I am pleased to support. Sometimes the farmer said, "For me, the forest is the bank." He says, "I don't need a bank when something creaks up on my farm, if I need a big investment, I go into the woods, I cut and sell, so I can make an investment on the farm, so if a bad crop or something else comes along, I can replace the loss of income." And what the previous system did - took away, supported their forests, did half-breeds who worked hard, insisted on farms, went to work in the valley, got up early and came back late this afternoon. Others went to football games, to movies, here, there, this farmer had to go home when he came tired from the valley - many times these farmers worked on the standard of production, come home, change, take the bike and go to the forest or work on the farm. In the end, he was the least valuable in society of all. And if this is getting better today, thank God. He will be happy to support this law because I think that injustice to Slovenian farmers is once enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, for the scenic debate. Member Borut Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! I hear a lot of high and elevated words, but here in the National Assembly there are not many of us, not now when we are in politics, but since we were able to hold that five-pound motor in our hands, we use the motor, not only in words, but also in actions. What about this marriage? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Do I have a word with you, chairman?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u39	Excuse me, of course, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u40	Look, when the storms roar over the woods, then the roots of the trees are conscious. And now, on the one hand, we are attacking the fact that, of course, in some past, the country has supported these forests. What did we do? We divided these forests, which were formerly state-owned, from Buenos Aires through Cleveland, Rome and Ljubljana and Oslo. If at least they were national, they were Slovenian, now all the forests we speak so much about are no longer Slovenian. But I do support the spirit of this amendment. It is right that in these Slovenian forests the Slovenian high mountain farmer is the master, although they are therefore not the best options everywhere. However, those who had previously ruled these forests as GGs or as a country were not a bad master. Mr Drašler was a representative of such a company and the Director of Markets, and I must say that we do not have bad memories at that time. Many mountain farms were given roads to their homes by foresters. The masters were those who were the bearers of the profession and who brought modern and better mechanisms into Slovenian forests, so today they also serve private farmers. I must say that the congregation from which I come, even now that the owners of these forests are Bornov, as well as the municipality that I am mayor, has a few hundred hectares of forests, of course, that we use exclusively domestic farmers to work in these forests. However, I must say that competition on the market is so severe that the profits that some fellow Members have mentioned are still significantly lower. But mountain farmers also need everything else. I think in some other articles of this law we have mixed up politics and spruce. In one way, we are no doubt re-imposing the forest policy-makers. On the one hand, we are talking about the provinces, on the other hand we are talking about denationalisation, and now we will be told from Ljubljana, from the Ministry of Gorenjska, who is the real leader of the regional unit! Listen, ladies and gentlemen1 We ourselves will be able to place a good and capable forester there. And that is why there is also a world of institution that has an interesting plural composition, a nonpolitical, plural, and those who decide who is the best master of mountain forests and we ourselves in the Market want to say who is the best forester for our forests. You will not delegate this to us from Ljubljana, and therefore I am quite skeptical of the spirit of this law. There is no doubt that Slovenian forestry profession has worked well all the years after the war and also today. We also returned those forests that we returned to the denationalizing beneficiaries with higher and higher timber mass, with more kilometres of better-maintained roads, latches and also water-based facilities, as we can today when those strange lead times passed. In the woods for a long time there was not as much wood lying on the cross as there is today, and the forest line is only a fairy tale. 20, 30 years ago, the forest line was substantial, much more and, therefore, there may be some devastating consequences of water shortages as they have now been. I have heard many times that we are now providing free access to forests through this law. Listen, in this country and in this territory there has been free access to the forests since April 6, 1941, only one of them did not hope in the woods, but some do not hope to see them from near today. So talk about such nonsense: free access to forests - one is words and the other is acts. Of course, free access, recreation, sports, cavalry, I support. All of this sounds great and populist, but what have we done with this law for those who will be raised a little better and cultivated, and those who do harm in the woods? A truck with 5, 6 quadcycles, unregistered, and 3,4 motor sleighs in the wintertime comes to us in Tržič, Austria. And then what they can't do on the other side of the tunnel is working with us. That's why the spirit of putting up a lot of ramps that allow for walking on foot, not motorists, sledgers and others, I support. Never and never is the behavior in the forest absolutely, it is necessary to take into account the responsible attitude towards nature, forest order and also have a cultural attitude towards animals, forest fruits, gathering within the limits of common sense and more. The openness of forests is undoubtedly a public interest and an important eco-social function. But we are not in this law, which is so important - have we given any emphasis on what is now happening in Slovenian forests? We cut a lot for relatively small money round wood to load on trucks, destroy local and state roads, and then take wood abroad, where they can make it more substantial. They know how to burn it. They know how to give it added value. We are working hard in our congregation to build a wooden biomass firehouse for the school. Once we were close to signing a contract, a contract contract with Elekro Gorenjska, there was an interference between legislation, what we could sign, a contract should be made, a tender should be made or a concession should be awarded. If we are to correct these matters, we must first correct legislation in these areas, which will be more stimulating and simpler. There was a lot of talk about the mountain farmer. I've known them all along. The farmer didn't destroy the previous system, nor will it, because he's good, capable and flexible, but I know a lot of farmers! Then, when I met them, I met them in boots and in a dress and not with a tie and a lot of them now "assuming" that for certain things in the previous regime it was better. Somebody said in a joke that ever since Tito died, everything's been wrong. But even what happened before wasn't all bad. It wasn't all bad. And the previous country had great obedience to the mountain farmer, and it is right that this one does. And I am sure that with these forest commissioners, which you are now introducing and delegating from Ljubljana, we are already referring to the law, which will be about an hour or two in a row. Today, in planning in the forests, as regards game, forestry and this forestry politician, whom we will be delegating to the provinces, to the regions, will, of course, also have any impact on wildlife management as well as on the area. And whoever is more "ours" will cut and shoot more, but whoever is more "theirs" for that, of course, we will already find the recipe and the means to limit it. And that's why I'm quite skeptical about this marriage at some points. And I'll wait for some more replicas, and then I'll check in later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite Ambassador Aloys Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want a gentleman who spoke before me to replicate, but a healthy farmer tells me that the forest can't be taken to Argentina, not Cleveland, because it just doesn't work. Otherwise we can sell this to the Slovenian public. Even if the one who owns the forest lives there, the one who controls it has to be here, and he has to pay and everything that goes with it. And even communism, if you were as successful as you say, you wouldn't have failed on your own, and we all know it is. However, I would like to define myself before this amendment. The amendment is good, we will support it in Novi Slovenija. However, it does not mean, of course, an epochal, revolutionary change in this area at this time. Why not? Let's say clearly and loudly why not. When the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which established this unfortunate 20-year concession relationship, was passed in this house, we were not present, but our predecessors. The most important argument was that this concession must be 20 years old because forest economies will take over all workers, especially all disabled workers, who were large in this sector, and that this means so. Later, of course, they quickly disposed of the costs of the state of all these people with disabilities, became shareholders and all that happened with these prices and so on, of course, is true. And we've been talking about this for years. Thank God recently, during the time of this government, even this price unacceptable wood issue has changed slightly, so that the country receives more than it has received, say, in its previous mandate. The Committee on Agriculture and colleagues - for example, I remember, colleague Juban, you were with him, I don't know if he was a colleague of Saiovics - we were in Prague in the Czech Republic, where they had the same changes as us, and we asked them how they solved it. They were surprised when we told them that we had 20-year concession contracts, they were signed during Minister Booth's time, because a few years after the adoption of the law, neither the GGs wanted to sign them because they wanted more, but later they were signed. And now it is a matter of when these concession contracts expire. That farmers have a priority right - thank God, but I don't know which year exactly: whether it will be 2013 or it will be 2018. So it's only then or if someone withdraws from the signed contract. Minister Sturm and I have repeatedly discussed how this treaty could be repealed prematurely. The contract is a bigger matter than the law; if a contract is concluded, you cannot change it by adopting or adopting it. We can, of course, pay compensation for that. That is how we say that this is something that has been adopted for the future. Of course, we will gladly support this and only hope that no other government will come, and it will change it again, and it will say, no, it will not be a priority, but those who already have the concession will have the advantage. Because here we have a very different view of what the Slovenian countryside means and what it means to preserve agriculture and population in these demographically endangered areas. Well, they told us there in Prague, "We're signing concessions every year." That would be normal - every year. Then, of course, the one who offers more will get it, not give someone a 20-year concession to exploit and work with forests. At least we have achieved something in recent years that wood should no longer be sold at an agreed price, but that, in accordance with a regulation that is being adopted each year, this should be sold at a public auction. This is said to be at least a higher price. And I'm going to say one more thing about how good it was for farmers in the previous regime. At Pohorje, you have a whole range of farmers who spent years investing in forestry cooperatives, contributed for buildings, for professions, I don't know what everyone was doing, and then, when the moment of ownership came, the GG's leaders took over everything. These farmers have lost everything, despite investing in this common property for 20, 30 years. But that didn't happen again, not now, it happened when you were respected colleagues from the LDS in charge of the government coalition you. This is one of these sad stories that we have recorded and where we have not really moved completely away from socialism, nor in the field of hunting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u43	Thank you very much. However, Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Well, there will be no such vehementity in this amendment, let me remind you that we have tabled an amendment or amendment to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, where we have clearly defined that we want to grant, and that we have made it impossible for the church, for farms in these mountain areas, to round up their economy also with state forests. Unfortunately, then the complete right hand of this change did not support; for a simple reason, because it loved you The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia would remain because this change also talked about the allocation of funds between the country and the municipality, without a substantial part of the funds that are being poured into the Agricultural Land Fund today. Not even the euro, if I speak in today's euro at the time, nor the tolar, but the municipalities do not receive from this management either with agricultural land or with state forests. That was the reason. Thus, this solution for high-level farmers regarding concessions and rounding of their farms could have been in life for at least five years, but it was not because you did not want to dislodge the funds to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, let me remind you once again that this is the only concession that is not divided into municipalities and states. And the greatest burden in the space of forest management is right in the area where this forest is located, not in Ljubljana, where we finance over 100 jobs on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, which of course live from these concessions. And also these farmers, who will also pay the fund in Ljubljana and this service in Ljubljana, if they receive this concession. In short, a whole series of things had already been prepared for this subject, but there was no political will to make it happen. I therefore once again underline this political will, which I have already mentioned on behalf of the parliamentary group, as to what political will will be in the management of state forests. Once again, if a Slovenian farmer is dependent on forestry, then this dependence is already ensured, it can work because 80% of the forests are privately owned. Whether you have distributed these private forests under a law on denationalisation to someone who deals with agriculture or to someone who doesn't even know where this forest is, is another question. But it also had a decisive and important impact on who owns and who can live off these forests. But there was also an opportunity to solve the problem. However, the fact is that 80% of the forests are privately owned. So, even farmers and those who own these forests have more or less their existence guaranteed by what they already own. In order to save 20% of the state's forests from Slovenian agriculture, I think it is totally unrealistic to expect and just to think about it. So it would be really better to talk today about what you have already started the debate: do we have biomass in Slovenia? Yes, we do, but you say 20-year concessions is one of the biggest mistakes that happened in Slovenia. How do you think you're going to secure the biomass if you build a boiler room, a heating system? These are insanely large funds, and this is a very big responsibility. What if in that winter you don't have biomass at your disposal because someone changed their minds as an individual and rather sells this biomass to Austria, Italy, or anywhere else? In short, it is a very serious decision that allows exactly a 20-year period of concession, where a company or group of companies can well organise to reduce the cost of production in the forest and thus achieve a lower price of wood biomass on our market. However, in Slovenia itself, have we carried out any procedure to actually keep this wood biomass at a lower price for domestic customers than customers from abroad? We have not yet started to talk about this and it would be time to also address this mechanism, how to actually prevent wood biomass from going to Italy, Austria. And even a while ago we were talking, look how well the Roman Catholic Church will now rule with its forests. That this will be an example when we talk about supervision or in the report of the Monitoring Committee of the Fund of Agricultural Lands. Look where the Church sells wood biomass and cold! Right across the border to the neighbouring country, no matter what! These are concrete examples that prove that if we want to seriously manage Slovenian forests, then let us sit together and discuss what we need in Slovenia first. It is certain that we need a long-term concession, not a one-year one-year contract, on the natural good. Will someone buy a machine to get a one-year concession and then lose this concession next year? It's a completely unserious story! Look at the trouble with the lube. In a forestry area, if you grant a concession to a forestry unit which is a small area and is attacked by a skull, this concessionaire may in one year or two practically cut off all the wood he has obtained in management. If this is a larger area, if this is a 20-year concession, all these natural conditions can also be compensated. Everything else that has been tried with the political will to distribute concessions to those political Februarys that are closer to a specific party that is currently responsible and has a hand over the Agricultural Land Fund has not worked. Today we have 14 concessionaires. If concessions, as desired, were to be divided into forestry areas or units, thousands of concessions would be available in Slovenian forests. And I ask you who is able to control and monitor the thousand concessions awarded - it is not! Not here, not in the world! And then, in fact, domestically speaking, it could be stolen in state forests. At this point, however, surveillance is extremely acute, and even in this 2006 report by the Supervisory Committee, we can find that each log coming out of the state forest has its own record number. Every scrape. The process is controlled because the concessionaires are significantly smaller than they once wanted. And I stress that we can talk seriously today about whether we will have a serious biomass programme or we will develop environmentally acceptable rural programmes, and these are the solutions that we can actually put into this. But the rest is really talking in my head. And once again, I stress, these solutions on high-rise farms, I hope they will be successful. We have also proposed them ourselves years ago, and I wish that this would be a chance for someone to stay on this farm, although working in the forest is not easy. I think that you are all also aware that it is difficult to have enough people at home to work successfully in the forest, but that we are not talking about accidents that can happen in the forest and what consequences this can have for each farm. We should have that in front of our eyes before we say we've solved something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I intended only to discuss the amendment to Article 33, because some colleagues have discussed it more broadly, and I will try to add something to it myself. A nice welcome to the Minister with his associates and associates! First, let me say that I am not a shareholder of any forest economy and I will try to discuss it this way; I think some cannot say so. The other thing I'd like to say is where someone sells wood. True, the Church probably sells to Austria. But I think that a few forest economies also load at least better wood and take it directly into the forest economy, which is sad. In view of what my colleague Mirko has said, so here is a little replica of him, I suggest he invite the woodsmen from our end, and we will do what he said for 10 euros for him for 5 euros. At our end, foresters work contractually after 4.3 euros a spacious meter of wood, made, cut and scraped on the road. So those differences are probably significantly larger, not 10, 50, but - indeed then there is transport, but also transport more than the euro and a half doesn't cost, it should be very far to bear that much. I apologize to my colleague Saiovic when I jumped into his word that with that motorcycle, five kilos long, they're probably just trimming the bushes. But the professional bike you need as a woodsman weighs at least eight kilos and shakes you well. That's enough of this general stuff. With regard to the division of concessions. It is true what colleague Weber said about the division of the concession. I also think that it is nonsense, almost all concessions are shared in some ways and then probably in the next law, even on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, we will share this concession - I am talking about the hunting law - somehow otherwise. This is the only concession that is actually the full revenue of the state budget. I only partially agree with what some colleagues have discussed and said that those exploiting state forests under concession contracts are destroying roads and so on. I think so, too, but it is also true that the state also provides part of the funds for the maintenance of these forest roads. That is to say, at least partially reimburses these costs, not the concessionaires and others who exploit them. Third, what I'd like to say in general. I am sure, but not because I am also by the basic profession a forester, that they were, and I expect and hope that they will also be experts and experts in their field in the future. But what was wrong with the previous system, I can say, given that I worked for quite some time in forestry, it was that we had to be foresters too. And that was wrong, especially those who were in private forests, we know the so-called "what you could use for your own use" and so on. I personally support the law and it is commendable that the law itself has been drafted, and I support the amendment to article 33 with one simple reason, given that the last paragraph has been written down and that what colleague Weber said will be 10 thousand concessions granted - I read this last sentence: "Principal right is exercised by a natural person on the basis of a separate programme for the conservation of farms, which is the basis for the preparation of a programme for the conservation of farms and rural areas in the mountain-hribian..." and so on. So this is going to be - colleagues coming from these hilly areas, you're going to list maybe 5, I think colleague Friday said that 2 or 3 farms at the end of it might be the ones that will prepare such a programme and who, with their work, I'll say, will be able to run on these tenders or grant concessions. I might even extend this, not just to an individual farmer, but to the articles where we are talking about association - exactly in Article 74. There, farmers come together, and their producers also establish machine circles and I don't know what they're all about. I would even take such a form of merger of farmers - for example, two, three farmers, on a mountain - I don't know if they are, I don't know so much - if there were two, the three unite to possibly run for one forest economic unit if they were in that area, and they would run and also get a concession. And to conclude slowly: I will support the amendment, but I don't know if I will support the law. For one simple reason. Some have already mentioned it, including fellow Members Friday - 41. I will not talk about the political commissioners, but what we have written down in the amended article of the law on the committee "the head of the regional unit appoints and resolves the director of the institution according to the previous opinion of the council of the regional unit", pika, amen - it would be acceptable for me. But it is unacceptable for me to accept the solution that you, or that we have written in the following sentence, "in one year of the term of office, the director of the institution may resolve the heads of the regional units." So tomorrow we will have a new director of the Institute for Forests, the present one, I think this month or next month will expire one year in the D.C., given that we could not appoint him, although he was also reported to the Director of the Institute for Forests a long time ago, and will resolve all 14 heads of units, exposition. This is worse for me than setting up political commissioners, as some colleagues have said, we used to be foresters and I don't know what. This is not acceptable to me, Mr. Secretary. We had one amendment, too, a while ago, and for the sake of peace in the coalition, we also withdrew it. As a result of this article, it is likely that the law of my support, probably some other colleagues, will not receive it, although a number of matters have also improved from that basic text, including by understanding the professional services of the Ministry and the Minister himself. Again: it is a pity that we failed to do so, as were the solutions, because we said that either with the consent of the institution's world, but in the institution's world, we said who are the representatives. Thus, with representatives of forest owners, local communities, etc. etc. to give their consent, at any time before the discharge of this Director of Regional Exposures or Leaders. We left an opinion in the first paragraph, and then we say in one year he can make and clear all 14. No, I don't think that's right, but the director of the Institute of Forests will be selected at some invitation, and I think there will be at least a little political interference, and this one will be able to get rid of all 14 directors and set up people who will be compatible or with whom he can have one or the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this in connection? Yeah. Then we open a new application circuit. Here you go. We have an additional four MPs. In the meantime, I am informing the Minister that he can be involved in the debate by raising his hand. However, Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! I would like to refer to my predecessor to this Article 41. We speak strongly in this House about the decentralisation of Slovenia. We have before us a provincial legislation, which I believe we will also be able to adopt, which has different purposes, entirely different objectives, how to balance Slovenia more closely, regionally, even human resources and so on. And in that case, we're doing the opposite. How will someone in Ljubljana decide who would sit in Posav or anywhere else in that chair? This is not right, this is not the right way this Parliament, this Government, I think, is aware enough and wants to do so. There is a lot of will in the parliamentary groups to come to pension legislation, however, I believe we will. On the other hand, we make mistakes - just the opposite, we centralize things even more! This is the wrong world, something doesn't go together, something doesn't build up the principles that Members of the Coalition have, and I believe that in the opposition as well. Therefore, Minister, think seriously about such intentions, if they are well-intentioned, then let us know and tell us what was the purpose of this amendment or proposal of yours, and we can correct it in the course of this day or when we will adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u49	Thank you very much. However, Member Alojz Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I must admit that I have some problems listening to some of my colleagues' discussions because I think it sounds like this: I have an opinion that I do not agree with. I think that what has been said now in the end is a missed opportunity on the Committee on Agriculture, on the home committee, where we have openly talked and have frankly warned that solutions in this law are not good. At that time, even the Slovenian People's Party prepared an amendment on this particular subject, which we are hearing today, how they feel about what will happen when it comes to the appointment of consents or the appointment of heads of regional expositions. It is likely that today it is necessary to improve the public’s impression, in front of its people in the area, why such a law as it is will be passed. I would not judge what this means for an individual, but it is certainly a missed opportunity on the home committee. The same as listening to debates, I am sure that the longer the debate takes, the more ideal and such solutions will come. Instead of talking as stated in the Coalition Treaty, where it is stated that the coalition will advocate a thorough analysis of the effectiveness of the individual provisions of the Forest Act and on the basis of the findings supporting its amendments, the practice is clearly different. If this thorough analysis were to be done and solutions were to be proposed, we would go in the direction that our colleague Weber had previously pointed out in order to discuss what and how with the forests on the basis of expert proposals. But if it is discussed as it is today, when we started in 1941, and then we involve the Udba and then we reach these future forest commissioners, the question is how good a good marriage we will have and how good a quality the situation in our forests will be. It would certainly be necessary for this thorough analysis to make sure that, at the time of the adoption of the law itself, one specific case of a respected farmer of 1200 metres is not taken up and, on the basis of such a proposal, the law is adopted and the conditions of management, which have been established in one period on the basis of a 20-year concession granted. If we come to a second extreme, as colleague Sok suggested - and every year, the invitation to tender will get more - I am sure that the next call, next year the caller will get nothing. Still, he'll pay the most because what he can dig up will come up. And that's the same story we draw in the forest law as we'll listen to in the hunting law. Therefore, I am sure that today's debate is quite a bit of this duality. I like that the gentleman himself has acknowledged, as well as probably the DeSUS members, who say well that they do not agree with the appointment of leaders, and therefore will not break the law, and that they do not agree with the reduction of the role of local communities, but will still vote in favour of the law. These are two basic findings that were raised on the parental committee, and there was also a time to make a different decision. Thus, those who confirm such a law today will also assume the responsibility that matters will not be arranged as well as good, but they could be better.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Replica, I'm sorry, Comrade Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u52	Just for a little while, Comrade Posedel. You didn't listen to me. I said we were on a visit to Prague and that the Czechs told us that they have an invitation to tender each year separately. But I didn't say it was appropriate for us, but it's just a matter of our decision for how long.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. A colleague of Jozef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much again. Of course, I cannot agree with the views expressed here previously. Comrade Saiovic told us about his knowledge of forestry, these five-pound motorcycles and the use of these bikes. Well, now that I'm gone, we've had to get the peasant children to their knees and drag the American girl all the time. That's when the farmer got a spruce that had a cubit and a half, put on a saw, for one child's gym shoes. They were black, they weren't Adidas. This was then the exploitation of the farmer. These deformities about thinking with colleague Sajovic are not the result of a motorbike that causes professional diseases and this thinking - this praise for the communist forest management. This came from politics and other causes, but of course he was so controversial, so controversial that I had to tell him, he was talking about how 30 years ago there was more order. Of course it was. That's when there was fire on the trees. But where's the big mess today? With these big concessionaires or with farmers? Where's the big mess - if you're honest and you say so. Comrade Saiovic said something vital: they come from the Austrian side and take the beautiful wood away. And they can cut it, they can add added value to it. Why? They are worse off with this forest management and have a significantly better condition. Why wouldn't it be the other way around? Why don't we go upstairs and buy and add extra value, cut it up and sell it at expensive prices? What's the result? The poor management of the forest and the blocking of the farmer should not have had the saw of a flat farmer and nothing. About technology, Slovenian farmers would also go further than Austrian farmers. I am sure that the situation today would be reversed if it were well managed by the forests. That's how they robbed a farmer. Biological amortisation - significantly less affluent than was affluent in Austrian forests. And if you don't see the situation across the border from the Market! But it is, I don't know, maybe this praise, the political commissioners were in the forest farms back then. I have to stress that. I'm afraid they were. And that the Human Resources Directly, the committees and the Uda set up leaders. And, as my colleague Bajc said, unfortunately, the foresters also had to be in the role of cops, controlling farmers. That's how these things need to be made clear. If it weren't for all this, today, Slovenian villages, we'd be warming up to biomass. There's very few of them. Why are they in Austria? 18 years ago, in a dryer of eternal dust, I was experimenting when there was a whole city burning on biomass in Hardberg. But "Genossenschaft" - the farm cooperative was a milling dust factory, boiler room for the whole city and all that. And these masters you so praise haven't reinvested in you and technology. It was for other purposes. If reinvested, then technology would improve and we would be the leaders in this part of Europe. But today we are not, and we must humble ourselves in front of the Austrians and take away the better wood and the last value they tax. These are the consequences of the bad. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. A colleague of Saiovice signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I am glad that we agree with Mr Jerovsk in many ways and that we have great tasks ahead of us. But look, Mr Jerovšek, about a month ago, I received a call from Mr, an entrepreneur who would like to set up a sawmill in our congregation. We used to have 20 saws 30, today we have maybe two, three of them so they can also saw something for the market. You have ever wondered what our responsibility is. What kind of paper does this gentleman need to put the saw back? Same story. Once these farms had a water right, which was on one side of a year’s land and part of a year’s trade. And what a problem. I agree with you, Mr Jerovšek, that they have taken them. They have done a great deal of stupidity and error, and we are doing even more today because they do not allow them to reintroduce this matter through administratively simple procedures. And today it is the task of those who are sitting in the National Assembly today to enable additional, complementary activities on farms to make it easy to do so. Both in the field of hunting and in the field of forestry, hunting and hydropower generation. There's a lot of talk about this biomass. I don't know, maybe you're just talking about her, and I'm telling you, I've been warming up on this oven for two years and making all the biomass myself. We need to go from words to actions, try things out and promote them in all the functions we have. However, there is much longer planning, as Mr Weber said, such a mill, such trailers as the entrepreneur from Solčava, but not doing advertising that carries the Slovenian flag in this area. These matters simply need to be supported and regulated by legislation so that they are simple and then we will be better off. But today this law is set as well as a coin, and on one side it has a figure and a coat of arms. By helping mountain farmers, we show only the coat of arms, the figure on the other side, and it will bring a concrete cruel truth is still in the shadows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the apostle Gezo Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Colleagues from the People's Party, in the main part, the law is relatively good, and if your amendment were adopted, it would be quite agreeable, appropriate. And you've withdrawn the amendment at the cost of not supporting the laws, and we'll have nothing. At least that's what Bajc predicted. Where's the duck? Dear representatives of the Government, you may have found during the debate that we should explain to this assembly what a concession for the management of state forests is. And all the debate that's going on here is very much past what the concession is. And it can also be that concession can be awarded each year, but for a certain number of years. Whether it's 10, 20, 30, I don't know how many there are in certain countries, socialist or old European democracies. And we are talking here about a story that has very little in common with the concession, such as unfortunately it is in Slovenia. And it's not just a piece of wood, it's the numbers you're talking about, how it's worth it. If the farmer pays those numbers, he'll be gone in three years on that hill. Because on the one hand the price of wood has risen recently, it seems to me that 30%, here somewhere, are relatively good, on the other hand you give birth to numbers that have nothing to do with reality and the cost of cutting wood. And I'm afraid you're just going to have to set the concession price for the management of state forests in the same way as now the concession prices for these executive companies, if you really want to help them. Or you'll say, there's 36 euros for the cubit, and that farmer will be gone in three years because it doesn't work out. Which means you don't know the story and that it's a major part of today's debate, we're still in Article 33, normal politicisation. It's easy to figure out how much it costs in the woods. In the amendment to Article 33, it is likely to be adopted, I expect that the Government will consider that it may need to be finalized, because some of the things that we have opened may not be good and might have a problem in implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. As I saw earlier that there is still a desire for a debate, we will open a fourth round of debate in conjunction with Article 33. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I am surprised, Mr Vice-President, that you are allowing such an extensive debate today, given that you are considered to be a very consistent Vice-President in charge of the meeting. But still, I hope you won't take my word for it now. I have to replicate to Mr Bajc, who is doing a nice job here today, because I think that the public transfer of the session is because their member or their party has tabled an amendment, I think it's what they want today, and then he withdrew it at a meeting of the committee without any explanation or I didn't hear it as chairman. But I will return to Article 33 and say that I will support this amendment. It is said that high-rise farmers will have the advantage of granting concessions for forest management. I believe they'll be able to get some kind of acre before those 20-year concessions run out. We also allow this law to give the country the advantage of purchasing larger areas of forests, and I believe that such purchases will also take place, and that some farms, which also write to us, would like to come to the forests, that they do not even have their own agricultural premises to rebuild, and that in this way they will also come to a part of the income that is even harder to obtain in these places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much. It's a replica of a fellow Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Marjetka, whether I'm beautiful or not, is decided by nature, not whether it's television or not. In my explanation of opposition to the second sentence in Article 41, however, I gave the reasons why colleague Kramberger withdrew the amendment to this article. For a simple reason: due to a coalition order.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. To discuss this, I invite my colleague Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I am pleased with these statements made by my predecessor, which point to moments of truth, which will also show in the law of hunting that it is a political cow's trade. As for the amendment to Article 33, I would be happy to support it if you would also grant concessions to those farmers to whom we will grant concessions for 20 years. Biomass oven has a durability and guarantee for at least 15 years. With us in the hills and valleys, if we want to get to the wood, there is a lot to buy, not only the winch, but the cableway. You know how much it costs and when it amortizes. Until that wood in the hills, you have to make a forest road. Many of these forest owners will decide to set up a saw or a biomass firehouse for neighbors at home. And he just needs time. He needs a guarantee. And if we want to do something good, let's support these farmers, give them a concession, but not for two, three years, to keep them on the rope, "if you obey and you're good, you'll have a concession if you don't, but you won't." No, let's be honest, let's be honest, let's give them a 20-year concession, and then we'll go to normal management. What does 20 years in forest management mean? Nothing. It takes 60 years for those forest species to make wood something "wreck." And on farmers we measure the generation and the concession period with one master, with one farmer, not somewhere with two, three, five or ten years. Some mountain land management allows for one master’s age, which is at least 20 years or more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 33? Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u66	Just once again, we will not convince the public that this length of concession has such an important function. You can give the concession unlimited. You give unlimited concessions, you don't have to be tied to 20 years. What matters is what you want to achieve with this, what conditions you have written down, how you will then also exercise control over it. And here's the big con. However, concessions were awarded for 20 years without any other conditions. Once again, concessions were granted at that time in order for concessionaires to retain all the jobs of the part of workers who had different degrees of disability. Quickly after that, they got rid of all of them and carried them into the burden of the country, and they turned themselves into equity companies, which, as someone has already said here today, instead of investing in projects that were important for Slovenia, invested mainly in their own personal ambitions, and in doing so, they turned a lot of money into their private pockets. This is a major problem, and of course this has been done by that government coalition that Members today are talking about how bad these solutions will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Can we conclude the debate in connection with this article and the amendment? Yes, you can. We are moving on to a debate in conjunction with Article 36 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members, namely SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I'm opening an application procedure for discussion. Here you go. There is no desire for discussion in connection with Article 36. Comrade Bajc, was this meant for me? Your colleague? I'm glad, thank you. We are moving on to the debate on Article 48 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members. I'm opening a procedure for a possible application. Here you go. There's no desire to discuss it here either. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 11th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 11. Point of the adopted agenda - this is to the contrary the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. This law is dealt with in a reduced procedure and is available for 4 hours and 45 minutes. The bill has also been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration this time, so please give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr Iztok Jarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President, for your respect. The purpose of the amendment to the Law on Hunting and Wildlife is to adopt additions relating to the implementation of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia to supplement, amend and amend the legislation relating to the conservation of the nature, veterinary and use of weapons and the additions necessary for the implementation of the basic law in practice. In preparing this law, which I have already mentioned, mainly because of the Constitutional Court's decision, we have cooperated with various non-governmental groups and tried to formulate a text that would be acceptable to the majority. The limitation of the duration of the priority right of former operators to the procedure for the first award of concessions and the distribution of concession fee between the State and the municipalities are changes which are the immediate consequences of the Constitutional Court decision. The other substantive changes are, in short, the possibility of recording the loss of game, regulating exceptional interference in game populations outside the hunting age and on the hunting grounds, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] long-term hunting and forestry planning, falsification arrangements, implementation obligations, game management plans, the possibility of breeding native species in accordance with veterinary and livestock regulations, simplified way of calculating concession fees, the issue of the acquisition and carrying of hunting gear of trainees, a clearer definition of compensation for damage caused by game and the elimination of certain unnecessary administrative procedures. [[...]] With regard to the question of priority order, I would like to point out that the amendment's proposal, by deleting the first item of the priority order referred to in Article 26 of the Basic Law, has respected the sentence and by taking into account the explanation of the two decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the sentence of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 9.11. relating to the advantages and order of the concession, which reads as follows: "Article 26 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act is inconsistent with the Constitution, since it does not limit the duration of the priority right of former operators of hunting in obtaining a sustainable wildlife management concession to the procedure for the first award of concessions after the law has been implemented." The end of the quote. The explanation of the Constitutional Court’s decision of 11.8 speaks of further concessions, and I quote: “The hunting family, whose majority of the members are owners of land and forests in the hunting zone or whose majority of the members have permanent residence in the area, has priority in obtaining concessions in relation to other hunting families, except in the first award procedure, where the hunting organisation which managed fishing prior to the invitation to tender has the advantage.” End of quote. With regard to the length of the concession, the concession period we propose to grant this for 10 years, as this is linked to some professional arguments such as wildlife biology, the nature of the ecosystem function of the game and ten-year long-term planning in fisheries and forestry. Such an appropriate period would also constitute an appropriate active relationship between the candidate and the concessionaire. Finally, I would like to point out that the novel does not act as such a concept of private hunting grounds, nor do we interfere with the existing organisation of hunting. The concession can be obtained only by hunting families which must be members of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, cannot be obtained either by an individual or by a company that is not a hunting family or is not a member of the Hunting Union of Slovenia. Membership in the hunting family is voluntary in accordance with the legislation on societies and the restriction of membership can only be made in accordance with the provisions of the basic law in which this novelty is not affected. In addition, all concessionaires will have to meet the conditions of professional competence, the provision of a guard service and other technical conditions laid down in the concessional act of the government, with which they will be able to manage the basic law established by the public [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the tasks and compliance with the applicable rules. [[...]] The hunting family, which is already a concessionaire in accordance with the basic law, also acts in the public interest and is the holder of the public authority for the tasks laid down in the basic law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u69	Thank you, too. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the law treated the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Ambassador Marjetko Uhan, to present the report and the position of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u70	Once again a nice greeting to all those who accompany this meeting. At its meeting on 4 October, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition considered the draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Wildlife and Fisheries submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food took part in the meeting of the Committee, Legislative and Legal Service, the Hunting Union of Slovenia, the Slovenian Association for Soccer and the Protection of Birds Eaters and representatives of the Association of Forest Owners and Hunting Beneficiaries of Slovenia. In addition to the proposal for a law, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the comments of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, the initiative of the Slovenian Federation for Sokolar and the protection of birds bites, and the comments of the Association for the Promotion of Hunting with Bow. A number of amendments to the various parliamentary groups have been tabled. As you can see from this written report, I will not read them. We also received a written opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service. Most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The representative of the proposers, this is the Minister, explained in the introduction the purpose of the novel, which mainly follows constitutional requirements, namely the decision of the Constitutional Court last year. At the same time, additions are also introduced in the novel, changes which mean harmonising nature conservation legislation with legislation on the use of weapons. However, there are also some other solutions that are the result of the coordination process. As the Minister has already said, the duration of the priority right to operators so far is limited only to the first award of the concession. The novel regulates the hunting of peats, the integration of hunting and forestry planning at strategic long-term level, and after the novel, there is also the possibility of an exceptional intervention in the wild population beyond the hunting age and also on non-fishing areas. It also regulates the handling of accidents on the road with the wild. The authorisation for the establishment of a boar shall be withdrawn, which is irrelevant and creates only an additional administrative barrier for the parties and allows the breeding of native species of game in accordance with the rules on livestock and veterinary activity in the fields. He's also talking about compensation. The main thing is that the concession period is shrinking and that the concession is divided between the municipality and the state. These last two points were also mainly the subject of a debate between Members and the meeting of the Committee. Most of all, as it was said, were discussions about the length of the concession period, which is reduced to 10 years with the novelty. This was opposed by some Members, as well as by the Hunting Union of Slovenia, while most felt that this time was appropriate. The entire novels are opposed by the Association of Forest Owners and Hunting Beneficiaries of Slovenia. With the amendment, we also distributed concessions between the congregation and the country to each one to get half. There was also some debate on the amount of concession, which is set at 500 000 per year. Finally, we adopted a number of amendments to Articles 2, 6, 12 and 25. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. But let me say that the amendments have also brought into this novel the falconing and regulating of this activity. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Marjetka Uhan will present to us this time the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u72	This time, the position of New Slovenia towards the proposed novel of the Law on Hunting and Wildlife. The Wildlife and Hunting Act, adopted in 2004, met with great concern, resistance and, as a result, was checked at the Constitutional Court, which decided last year on the basis of some complaints, including priority rights in the award of concessions and the distribution of concessions. However, the constitutional dispute was also uneven and we received the position of one of the constitutional judges in particular. Among other things, it is interesting when he says that marriage is hostile and machete to landowners. Amendments to the law were being prepared throughout the current coalition, but no agreement was found at the point that we highlighted in Novi Slovenije in order to take account of landowners. The Constitutional Court has decided that wild game is state property, which we do not even oppose in Novi Slovenija, even though in other countries it is otherwise regulated, mainly that game is nobody's property, which becomes from owner when it falls. In Slovenia, wildlife breeds, ranks, breeds, hunts, shoots mostly on private property and no one can deny it here, as 80% of the forests in Slovenia are privately owned and remain in state. The proposed novel brings priority rights over 10 years in awarding a concession to a hunting family, where the majority of the owners of the land are members. If the amendment is adopted, we will not allow it until 10 years from now. Concessions are redistributed between congregations and the country, and no one wanted to think that landowners would be entitled to some work. We will not here argue that 500,000 euros for the whole country is undervalued. But we can say that in Slovenia we imagine that we are an oasis in the middle of Paradise and that it is only because it is only right. All that was different was blasphemous, destructive to the state, as if private property were something bad. Just as it has been for the last 60 years, it is only right and just in the opinion of some. We want to convince the public in every way that hunting is only an environmental function, and nothing more, and that we are just investing, investing. We believe that hunting is also an economic sector, sport, recreation. This is how hunting is treated in all European countries and hunting in neighbouring Austria brings landowners up to half the revenue from forest management equivalent to revenue from timber. We have private fisheries in all European comparable countries, particularly in neighbouring Italy, Austria, even Croatia. We are aligning the entire agricultural legislation at all points with the European directives. Even if hunting is left to each member, we must find that with the proposed novelty and the law, we are unique in Europe. Landowners and their ownership rights shall be released on schedule. The State will grant concessions as soon as possible, mainly on private fishing grounds. And because it grants concessions in private fisheries, the Hunting Union cannot require comparability with the length of the fishing concession, concessions in forests that are 30 years or 20 years old. Voivodeship is not privately owned, concessions in the woods are granted in state forests. And that's the difference in hunting. The country will grant private property hunting concessions because in Slovenia, as it is said, most private forests are owned. And in doing so, we ignore 350,000 forest owners and it is not true that these forests are closing down and that the movement is limited, because we have already cleared this up in the previous law. It is difficult to tell the owners of forestry farms, high mountain farmers, that hunting does not bring income to us as well as, say, across the border in Austria or Italy. Unfortunately, we do not offer these farms any other options, nor do we offer them the money they can, say, in neighbouring countries. What will we offer our farmers in the Tolmin hills, in Slovenian Koroška, in White Krajina, Goričko, wherever we want agriculture and life to continue. We will not support the proposed novel in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Groups of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Honourable Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food with the Team! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law amending the law. Much has been said about this change of law, both in public and in the committee, and also in various towers, many words have been uttered by individuals who once spoke so differently. But surely we can say one thing: that hunting, Slovenian hunting, which celebrates more than, I think this year, is the 100th anniversary of its existence, that it has certainly done and is doing important work in the very area of the Slovenian state. Amendments to the law go in this direction in order to respond to a decision of the Constitutional Court requiring certain amendments, on the other hand, it is important to change the length of the concession and also to grant a second concession. That is, when one period expires, how and who will take precedence over the second one. In our parliamentary group, we will continue to try to coordinate on these two issues with other parliamentary parties and find the best solution in the adoption process. So we do not want this law to re-separate both forest owners and hunters. As we say, for our Group of Members, these two provisions, as regards the second concession and the length of the concession, are still open and need to be harmonised, and the rest of the provisions of the laws that are written will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Ambassador of the Group, I would like to congratulate all Slovenian hunters and Slovenian hunters, first of all, sincerely on the anniversary of a successful and important 100-year-old mission. And since no one is a member of any hunting family in our parliamentary group, we have relied more on the quotations of those who certainly know this and know it. Dr. Ivan Lovrenčič, at the Constitutional Assembly of the Slovenian Hunting Club 100 years ago, who was some sort of counterweight to the German Crater Society for the Protection of Hunting, stated some important sentences and let me quote them. Firstly: "The main mission of the hunting organisation is to maintain a balance in nature, so hunting is an environmental function." Second: "The wildlings know no borders, so crushing hunting grounds and hunting organisations is harmful to wildlife and nature." Thirdly: "Inculcate membership in the fair pursuit of hunting for the protection and cultivation of game." Fourthly: "It is important to regulate fair relations between buyers of hunting and landowners, it is farmers." And fifthly: "The hunting organisation must remain a non-party organisation, so that we will be able to successfully carry out the above-mentioned tasks." The end of the quote of the esteemed Dr. Ivan Lovrenčič hundreds of years ago. And he probably couldn't have imagined that after hundreds of years this quote would be very up to date and that it would be quoted in a hunting relationship and in hunting societies today. Earlier it was said that we relied on quotations from experts in the media and elsewhere, so allow two more quotations from Dr. Ivan Kos, a biologist who said: "The proposed marriage supplements are currently one of the biggest threats to our nature protection. The additions are aimed at Slovenians at certain points, as the law provides that the award of concessions will be influenced by the money offered and that in the bidding of hunting grounds means that Slovenians will become slaves, as there are many European rich stakeholders in Europe for Slovenian hunting." And also the words of the respected forestry engineer Ivan Cernač, who said that the purpose of the novel is to create private hunting sites and thereby destroy the hunting union of Slovenia. The hunting ground will only get in the management of the one who will offer more, shorter as the use of the forest takes place, the harsher it will be to intervene in nature. In the debate on the parental committee, we also listened to arguments as to why concessions are falling and decreasing. And certainly we have not been persuaded by the proposalers, just as we have not received answers to other questions, as well as to the hunting union and the leadership of the hunting union, if we have read in detail the letter sent by the President to Members and Members of Parliament, it is clear from him that what the distinguished Mr Minister has claimed to be a hunting partner in the drafting of the law, but, if no addition has been made, then the position of such a partner is probably at least inequities. Therefore, the question of why to insist on this law in a way that has already been discussed on the parental committee is here today that it will experience fate or veto search on the State Council or constitutional judgment or even referendum. I think that hunters and hunters after hundreds of years of important activity really don't deserve such an earring to become from what they actually were, guardians of the nature of the connection between the wilderness, between the urban environment and life, overnight at all. We know that this is not going fast, but the law is aimed in this direction, and above all it is disturbing that there was no desire for any change. That's why we're not really going to be in the Group of Members. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, until the end of the vote, we will live in hope and conviction that there are so many responsible Members and Members in this Assembly that this law cannot and must not be adopted today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Hello, everybody. In Slovenia there are over 23,000 hunters and now we will push all these hunters to the site and put them all in the hands of some 200 people. It will happen just like in Croatia, where all the capital game is killed, I am and there is also some deer that is usually run over by cars. In fact, the Constitutional Court’s decision required only Article 26 and Article 29, paragraphs 6 and 8, to be amended. Nothing else! The fact is that the Constitutional Court has established that Article 25 is not inconsistent with the Constitution and the legislation so far states that concessions are granted for 20 years. Now this law changes it to 10 years. What will happen to the rights acquired? It is an eclectic violation of constitutional rules, which some, according to the order of the Roman Catholic Church, are likely to carry out in this way. It is also unfounded in the public interest to amend certain articles of the law in a reduced procedure, because there is confidence in the rule of law and the law in general. Nobody cares about that. Arbitral and politically motivated changes in the law due to the public's carefully hidden interest in the Roman Catholic Church are not permissible, but it happens all the time in Slovenia. The Roman Catholic Church will become the largest owner and capitalist and we will ensure that they rob the wild, kill the animals long and hard - guilted. The Slovenians will be slaves again in their forests, we will not enter the woods, there will be kings of individuals who will be appointed by the Government to do anything. Obviously, the only real reason and motive for the Government's proposed intention after the amendment of Article 14 of the current hunting law, which, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, did not have to be changed, is that the Government's intention is to hide under the carpet all irregularities and swine fishing in the interests of capital is to be carried out by new owners. I think it's a matter we can't allow. And even more cruel is the amendment of Article 26 of the current law, which in concessions gives a complete advantage to land and forest owners who can and will be registered as legal persons as hunting families and thereby gain an absolute advantage in obtaining concessions in relation to other hunting families. Since the Roman Catholic Church is the largest ambassador and owner of forests in the Republic of Slovenia, it is known who will then hunt here. Or are it the Maltese knights who will give them guns instead of swords, or are they rather swift? Let them take the AKs and go hunting around. Looks like that's what they want. The fact is, someone wants to have a private hunt. And if the government doesn't want all people to continue to participate evenly in the hunt, let it speak out loud. If he does not want anyone to go to the hunting grounds, except certain gentlemen, to say out loud, but not to secretly favor the Roman Catholic Church, the various speculators and a handful of great owners. Sad to say, this is how all the work in the woods is destroyed. The hunters were working, investing, caring for the game, caring for the forests, young game, and so on. It doesn't matter today. But we're going to look at wild animals in zoos, and that poor deer that someone's going to see in the woods, and they're going to beat up some gentlemen in the trees anyway. We will be against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u80	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The parliamentary group of the democratic party of Slovenian pensioners will not support the proposed law, because there is a poor compromise between the applicable law, which has certain constitutional and legal errors or inconsistencies, and between the extreme variant of private fishing and private fishing in that country. Surely one of the reasons is that we do not want to agree with the authority that ignores the legislative branch of power, and three years after the adoption of the current law this has not been realized. This has not been achieved even after the Constitutional Court has failed to suspend the implementation of a single article before the final decision and the issue of the award of concessions remains open until now and until now. Last but not least, the Government used the role of the Constitutional Court as an excuse, but, as it is said, it did not keep this excuse and the Government should implement the law and it is not. This points to a special relationship between the authorities or the executive branch of authority and the legislative branch, which, of course, we do not agree with. The government did not take the opinion of the profession into account when preparing the novel, according to the Hunting Union of Slovenia, which means that it ignored those who are familiar with hunting and hunting, who have invested decades of their efforts, enthusiasm, knowledge and abilities in the wild. And last but not least, the coalition has not supported any of our amendments, which should have mitigated the poorly prepared law to the extent that it was still acceptable to our parliamentary group. Of course, we do not want to claim that everything in marriage is badly resolved. Certainly, compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision is justified and we support it, as well as some other solutions in the law. But the fact that the principle of granting concessions has not been established for at least 20 years is unacceptable to us. However, the damage to the fate of the game in the future will certainly be virtually incorrigible if the privatisation of hunting grounds and commercialisation of fishing in private forests occurs, as the experience of similar solutions is proven to be a bad experience if we look only at Croatia, where the game is virtually gone. Of course, the fact that solutions are different in other countries gives rise to a great desire to hunt in our country. In fact, in those countries where hunting is more freely saved, the game is not much longer or not at all. And that's why the appetites to hunt with us are increasing, because there are enough savages in our country, because the Hunting Union of Slovenia and the hunting families have not hunted for prey, but for the purpose of maintaining, protecting and preserving animal species in our forests. In doing so, it is impossible to escape the feeling that the Government is offering solutions that are written on the skin of precisely certain interests, which on the other hand do not have any credit for the fact that the wild stock in our country has been preserved to the extent that many countries can only envy us. The credits for the favourable status of the game have been given to hunting families, as I said. As a result, even after last night's debate on TV, we can understand forest owners that they are wrong or interpret private property that applies to forests, but it certainly does not apply to savages that are state-owned. And a desire was made for the economic exploitation of hunting. That's not gonna work. We understand the economic exploitation of game, if I can simplify it, only in the fields where game is cultivated for these commercial purposes, but certainly not in the open hunting grounds of our forests. Because of this and the fact that the amendments offered were not adopted, we will not support the law. However, it could still be supported if at least that amendment on the 20-year first grant of the concession, which can be supported today, is adopted. I hope he wins his mind and we will. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We made it through this. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The MPs will be given the position of the national community by Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I'm afraid that this law is not to be hailed in Gorički, where the wildlings actually destroy the entire year's crop, or I don't even know what kind of law could plague the wildlings that come from Hungarian forests to our fields and actually trample and eat everything. The aim of the bill is to fully regulate wildlife management, to ensure the principles of the ecological, social and economic functions of the game and its living environment. But I don't know what it's like to pay people who lose their crops in the fall. This is usually what hunting families pay for, but never as much as damage. The proposed amendments and additions will ensure the long-term implementation of sustainable wildlife management, of course this would be the objective, and as with natural resources in practice. This will limit the duration of the priority right of former operators of hunting sites in obtaining concessions for the first award process. The concession shall be awarded for a maximum of 10 years. In particular, hunting for peat will be arranged and it will also enable hunting for peats to be carried out also for non-fishers and will simplify the way in which the concession fee is calculated. We expect what this law will bring to the people of Gorička. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Member Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported the Wildlife and Hunting Act adopted by the National Assembly in May 2004. However, we supported it because we are convinced that the concept of hunting, which has been enacted by this law, is that this concept of hunting enables sustainable wildlife management on large surfaces and that it is the country which grants management rights on the basis of prescribed concessions to hunting families that manage this game in large areas. We are convinced that this concept of hunting is also true because it allows the forest to continue to remain that value in the broadest sense and that the public interest is being established, which is demonstrated directly in the most elementary form by permanent free access to forests. Regrettably, after the adoption of this law, things did not take place as expected, because, for the first time, a number of constitutional complaints were filed against the law, secondly because a number of hunting families complained about the hunting order. At that time, we warned the Hunting Union of Slovenia that such a complaint, which indirectly also attacked the concept of a great deal of surface hunting, was unproductively harmful for the hunters themselves, but there was no reasonable answer. I am sure that the Hunting Union of Slovenia did not play that connecting and guiding role here. In essence, the Constitutional Court established the basic concept of the law and ruled that the legal arrangement of the hunt affected property, but not to the extent that the constitutional principle of the inviolability of property in Article 33. I am pleased that this concept of hunting is justified by this, but now that these basic hunting laws have been adopted, we are faced with two dilemmas that need to be resolved, and we hold on. The basic dilemma is whether to give priority to other concessions and to define the compromise proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, proposed by the Minister in the form or by a proposal on the duration of the concession, which responds to the rights of the owners in relation to the priority right, as I have already said, which should be legalised and should decide on who to grant the concession in the second award of the concession. I think that this compromise is a smart, good one, and that this is an attempt to reach the award of concessions, which must happen sooner rather than later. What we are now witnessing in the field is by no means acceptable. I would like to point out once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the bill does not introduce private hunting grounds, nor directly, that this legal regime is one that permanently allows the multifunctional use of forests as a major part of hunting grounds, with an emphasis on the permanent free entry into this common value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u86	Thank you for your word and once again welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In each country, hunting arrangements are a specific system resulting from specific, social, historical, cultural, social and legal development. The hunting law in each country is a result of its historical development. According to the legal origin of hunting rights, there are two forms of hunting rights in the legal systems in force. According to one of them, hunting rights can be a separate right that is not bound to property rights on land and, in the other form, hunting rights can be a private property right which is linked to ownership rights on land. Social Democrats believe that wildlings are natural wealth and the state as owners of wild game and that hunting rights are a separate right that is not linked to property rights on land. Self-governing belongs to the State so that, under certain conditions prescribed by law, it can be transferred to the exercise of private entities. And it is in these solutions that we must be extremely careful. The Constitutional Court also ruled that Article 26 of the Wildlife and Hunting Act should be deleted, since it does not limit the duration of the priority right of former operators to obtain a concession for the sustainable management of game to the first award procedure. The new law provides for a priority order so that the family, whose majority of the members are landowners and forest owners, takes precedence over the next award of the concession. This opens up a whole series of questions, because a number of hunting societies can be established, including with three hundred percent landowners, and we will get a whole range of hunting families or societies, if you want, armed societies in Slovenia, who will compete with each other, who will get the concession earlier after the end of the concession period. We believe that the question, which is thus written, or this solution, which is enshrined in the law, is not appropriate and that however, it is necessary to take into account the ability to manage according to the number of members of the hunting family, according to the facilities they already manage, in relation to the equipment and facilities needed to manage and manage the hunting family successfully or the hunting area. The applicant also unnecessarily intervened in the concession period, reducing it from 20 to 10 years without any professional arguments. We are also proposing an amendment to remove such a solution and maintain a 20-year concession period. It is also questionable to combine forest-economy and hunting-management plans. Only deer and deer are truly important for the development of the forest from a large number of wildlings. Individual species of game do not live in a forest space at all or have no direct impact on the forest and forest space. Therefore, this issue is also still unresolved in our view and more effort and knowledge should be put in place to harmonise these two instruments. With regard to the division of the concession fee, which the Constitutional Court has decided that part should also belong to the municipalities, we propose that, if we already share these funds, we share them with 25% of the municipalities and 75% of the countries. In doing so, we note that the calculation of the amount of the compensation must also take account of the damage caused by the game. Indeed, we must be aware that the most important relationship between the agricultural activity in this area and the hunters, or even the whole area in which this activity is carried out, is. And if the issue of effective compensation is not cleared, there are many disputes and we cannot talk about successful hunting or successful agriculture. In fact, we want most of these benefits to be paid for agricultural damage, if necessary. Since the solutions in the proposed law are not really good for the development of hunting, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u87	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Greetings to the Minister with the team! I think it's the right attitude towards the National Assembly to announce two such important subjects to the Minister with four colleagues. We rarely see this in the National Assembly. I am convinced that today, at the end of the vote, we can also experience a surprise, especially because I see after the five-minute debate that the Minister has come mainly to listen and to speak less. What can I say on behalf of our delegation? I'm not going to read what's in front of me or what the lawyers wrote. I also welcome all those - comrade hunting health - who have come to the tribunal to listen to this law, which is more important. Not for hunters, it's more important for everyone. [[2 million]] The Slovenians who live in this space and in this country. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we were the ones who prepared a good law in 2004 that worked in practice. Today, however, we strongly oppose this weak, superficial solution, which in some ways is also abusing the decision of the Constitutional Court. What's this all about? 100 years ago it was written this way: Our hunting club is Slovenian. We want to protect the Slovenian character of our country and force a foreigner to respect the Slovenian character of soil. This was the beginning of organised Slovenian hunting. Our hunters gradually made their way to the hunting grounds, which were mostly in German hands. After 100 years, so is today. Today we do not want them to come to us and to have the word of those who have already honored and delivered up their hunts. We do not want to imitate the Italians in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, where birds are rare. We do not want to follow the example of the Croats, who in four years destroyed what left them so hated by capitalism in their 50s. We do not want to follow the Austrians in Koroška, where the fisheries are small, fragmented and, above all, empty. We want the hunting to be preserved, regulated and organised in the public interest. Not in a profitable, private, ownership interest. The authority for the abuse of constitutional judgment due to the political pre-election promises of previous State elections is undermining a good system that is in practice functioning. What does this system do in practice? In Slovenia we have almost 22,000 hunters who manage almost a million 500,000 hectares of surfaces in some way. These hunters make a million 185,000 volunteer hours. If we were to turn this into a workshop, it means that this system has to employ over 650 people. Hunters shoot relatively little. In order to change the trophy cult in Slovenia, we have spent almost 15 years making hunters an important environmental aspect, collecting garbage, working in hunting, preventing damage, and less trophies. How many wildlings are taken from hunting grounds in Slovenia? The number is somewhere between 55 and 60 thousand. In Slovenia we have forest land owners and farmers there - 150 000 and forest land owners - 300 000. Does this mean that one shy bean will divide five, six owners?Oh, my God! Interests here are significantly different, bigger and deeper. And as soon as I hear the thought that a wildling becomes his own when he falls. Wildlings become the property when they fall, the land they're on. Listen, people of God, is it an interest - that the savages around us live or is it an interest to fall?Oh, my God! I listened to the echoes yesterday. One lady, representing herself as a representative of the owners, sees a deer as 100 euros, with ears and horns. In the morning, when I go to work, I am glad that we have such a well-preserved environment that on the way to Ljubljana I can see a canoe, other birds, deer, rabbit and others. And in this public, broad interest, it is necessary to regulate hunting. That is why we will also take up a broad debate today. Otherwise, we are not the laws that make things worse, of course, in the Liberal Democracy Club, and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u89	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 29 October 2007. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats and the amendment of the LDS and Zares Group of Members. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 6 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Bajc, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected comrade hunters. I would like to start and end with a sentence like a colleague from the New Slovenia Group when she said that they would not support the law, that I would say I would not support the law. You know why? Because then I would force the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to grant concessions to hunters on the basis of a valid law that defines the duration of the concession as 20 years. Unfortunately, it has not happened in three years that the Minister, and not the current Minister, would grant concessions under the applicable law. In view of this, as some colleagues have also mentioned, the point, and Mr Minister, is a major part of his presentation of this law, which has been defined and based on a constitutional decision imposing on us - I think - that in one year we will amend the provisions of the law concerning the division of concessions, I will participate in the debate. And if some of the things that I will also present are taken into account, in the end I will also support the law itself. The second thing I'd like to say in this introduction. I also own agricultural land and forests. But this letter I received from the mail today doesn't represent me. I am not a member of the Association of Forest Owners and Hunting Beneficiaries of Slovenia. I am also the owner - once again - of both forest land or co-owner and agricultural land as well as a member - of this I am proud - of for decades one of the hunting families. Of the 56 members, only 4 are not owners of agricultural land and forests. And to say who are in these hunting families and who are not - I think - is for the hair or not to say what else is drawn to. Secondly, some of you are discussing how hunting is an economic activity and I don't know what it is. True, hunting is an economic activity. But in the state's hunting grounds. That's where they market, and we market hunting families. But you know why? So that the money we get from selling to hunting tourists seized wild game and then also the trophies we pay back to hunting grounds. By law we have to do this at those hours mentioned by Comrade Saiovic, which most hunting families can specifically say for us, has 20 plus 20 hours - every hunter has to do, 20 at hunting lodge and home, and 20 at biotech. I wouldn't possibly explain what biotech works are, that you're even justified in going to jail. The continuation of this was also discussed by Comrade Saiovic about the seized game trophies etc., etc. Me in the morning, if I have time, I've been going very little lately. I take my rifle, I get dressed, I go about 25 kilometers to hunt. Maybe I'll confiscate one of the deer. Then I have to take her to the browser to find out if she's okay, and so on, bring her to the fridge. Save there, invite the browser to review and so on. And then if I want to take that kilo of deer or gamma meat for myself, I pay it just like anyone who comes into that refrigerator. My master and I have agreed to buy a deer. I don't know, I'm gonna say, six euros is for me, which I had to do, like six euros is for anyone else. True, but the law also says that if I took a trophy game, it was a trophy. It's not mine. The trophy is owned by the hunting family. But the hunting family gives it to me to perform or to hang on my wall if it hangs. But if I've taken the wrong way, and this trophy doesn't hang with me, it hangs in a hunting home. For example, some trophies in Bistra, in the museum, where I can get a very strong "strafungo". Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. In the previous Law on Forests, we discussed and discussed Article 9 and stated that in the first paragraph, the text of 'land-economy plans of areas' is replaced by 'land-economy and hunting-management plans of the area'. Mr Minister with colleagues will recall that I have assessed when considering the coalition harmonisation of legislation. And you convinced me that it is right to endure this planning, given that in fact "land without savages and wildlings without forests" do not exist. But I don't think people would exist if they didn't have forests. Because of the functions they have, I have accepted this and also supported such a solution. The Law on Forests in force states that there are 20 annual concessions that have been awarded under the threat of judgment, etc. Or even, apparently, one judgment came because at first I was thinking whether or not she'd given up. I'm not saying they're justifiably granted. I mean, actually, I'm going to say that they're justifiably granted for 20 years, given that one of the colleagues in the previous marriage, when he reasoned, said 60 years. In the 1960s, the master is on his own, and I may not know what he is. Everything else is 100, 120 and over. And if we want to rule together and if we say that we are going to work now on new forest-economy and hunting-management plans, I think it is necessary that the same fate is also justified by this concession that is to be obtained on the basis of the invitation to tender. I think that even the drafters of the law in 2004 and the passed test law had arguments to grant a concession for a period of 20 years. And also, Mr Minister, your co-workers have not convinced me that since 2004, the conditions for granting concessions have changed significantly. Probably, every time you do. I remember the 1996-2000 term when it shrugged into the topic of the law, which - I think - is one with the longest beard. We applied until 2004 the law, formerly in 1976. Otherwise, he had some novelties in common, and I think it was a good solution. And to change now something that was once harmonised and once agreed, probably also with arguments, but this does not impose on us, as some say or - I will say - do not claim, but in the debate you may justify by the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I think it's inappropriate. And to conclude, my law will be supported if at least one of the amendments to Article 6 is adopted, or if this article is deleted and the provision in the current law remains, to grant concessions for a period of 20 years or, like the other amendment, to grant concessions for a period of 20 years. In the event that this amendment is adopted, I think it would be appropriate then to adopt the amendment to Article 7 and to avoid all that some colleagues have determined what might happen. It's actually true. I also said in coalition coordination, I also told for private fishing as they used to have Windishgratzi, Schönburgi. I don't know who all of them are. They fenced, they made obstacles in the area of their lands, and they were hunting there. At ours, as colleagues Sayovic said, the number of farmers, owners of agricultural land, the number of farmers of forest land owners on our own structure, when our parcels are 5, 10. I think the average parcel of agricultural land in Slovenia is 26 acres and the forest land is slightly larger. Speaking of private hunting, I think he may be living in nature, but not with nature. And once again, I will support the amendment to Article 6. And if the amendment to Articles 6 and 7 is adopted, I will also fully support the law and then, at Article 7, I would no longer report to the debate. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers. I have some hope that today's debate on the Wildlife and Hunting Act will be different from usual. I have some hope that we will talk about substantive issues, about what it would be like to develop, not only of hunting, but also of forestry and also of Slovenian societies in the future, but not of what one or the other has ordered and just accused each other. Already in 2004, when we adopted the Wildlife and Hunting Act, I think a lot of things have been said about how much and to what extent new socio-economic conditions require changes in the hunting system to ensure the benefits of hunting and hunting in Slovenia to wildlife, forests and ultimately Slovenian landscapes and our development, which would cause indescribable damage if unacceptable solutions were adopted. I am pleased that there are several Members and Members, especially Members of Parliament, who will also be closer to the work of hunting, because they will understand that this is a matter of common interest, not for the interests of individuals. I do not know why the Government, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food have decided to amend Article 6 of the Law without the obligation imposed by the Constitutional Court and to reduce the concession period by half. The concession introduced by the 2004 law, which imposed a new position on hunting families, which gave owners a new right that had previously not been allowed by hunting legislation and was necessary, at the same time based on the assumption that they should have a period in which wild management would still be prudent. If you reduce this to an unacceptable time when the planning and use of game is not possible, then, as some have noted, it will be all directed and directed towards commercialisation, not to nature conservation, which is a fundamental function of hunting. There are no serious arguments in the Government's proposal to amend this definition. This is, however, one of the most important amendments and additions to the law. I hope that most in this National Assembly will be able to understand that it is wise to maintain a 20-year concession and that it will not be subject to the interests of some owners - I stress - some owners who have express and only commercial interests and who, as some say - would really like forests to become their property in a way that we can gradually also think about the prohibition of entry, so that we can gradually also think about the inability to collect forest fruits. In this respect, it would - I admit - be directly affected also in my personal interest, because I am a mushroom and it is an extraordinary pleasure for me to gather, but also because of nature and walking, because then I encounter nature, trees, and partly wildlings in the woods, although this is rarer. And I expect that the Government will allow the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to allow us to think differently about these issues of the Law on Fisheries and will not require the coalition to vote without reflection and to the detriment of the development of fisheries. I will support this amendment as well as all the others that we have tabled in the Group of Members. And I appeal that we do not change well-advised decisions so that we do not sit on some narrow commercial and acquisition interests of large forest owners, that they do not change things that run well, that we do not change the conditions that have been given to our hunting industry, that it has also preserved the game in the forest differently and much more qualitatively than in the countries that we so much like to compare with. Also in the West and other former republics in the former Yugoslavia. Let us not follow bad examples and maintain the good tradition that we raised in hunting in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a team! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order to discuss this subject, I will give my ID card. I'm not a forest owner, I'm not a hunter, and I'm not a woodsman. But I spend an incredible amount of time in the forest, and I meet these people, and especially in those forests where not only the wild, but also the beasts. So on some things, because I hear a lot of them, I can also speak with some credibility. One of the key problems of the novel of the Law on Fisheries is that the applicant simply took advantage of the opportunity and, at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, that certain things need to be harmonised, nominated for changes to a whole range of other things that were needlessly nominated on this occasion. However, the key point of the dispute is a clear provision for the award of the concession period, which is supposed to be in place of the current 20, 10 years. This is, of course, a matter of course, and this must be acknowledged, a strange, two-faced attitude of the proposer. Even in direct communication with the Group of Members, I had the opportunity to hear this. Thus, the agricultural ministry, because its arguments are entirely - in my opinion - torn legs. When it was said, among other things, that this is a long enough period in terms of the life of the game, that is 10 years, that was that chronic argument, why the first concession is awarded for 10 years. In the view of the same ministry - I now give as a comparison - according to the same ministry, so in the stream that runs past our house and in which they swim up and down fish, their life expectancy is 30 years. But I have to tell you, every once in a while, we look at this same stream, and the fish are something like 10 Doug. And in those 30s, they didn't get fat. They're not bigger and they're not dead either. It is said that they have some kind of diet or healthy diet. So that this argument, which I have heard, cannot be a professional reason or argument that would confirm that the game has a significantly longer life span for the award of the concession than the fish have in that stream that runs through my or our house. Therefore, the real reason lies in further provisions which will have no concrete consequences today or tomorrow. They will, however, if we adopt a ten-year provision that tells us what such a solution is proposed. Indeed, the amendment of the law also provides a solution to the granting of the second concession after the expiry of this period. This provision, however, gives an absolute advantage to land and forest owners who will be able to register - as has been said in public today - even if three owners, the hunters of these forests, have shown interest in this. Here we must acknowledge what has been said several times that we are indeed returning to a period some ten years ago, but not 60 years ago, as some of you have said today, but 40 years ago. So, 100 years ago. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture's argument does not hold back when it says, I quote: "It is not the purpose of the law to evaluate and eventually destroy the Hunting Union of Slovenia with a different priority order." I must say, this argument for hair is attractive. If we really didn't want to do this, we wouldn't change the law on these provisions. It's over. And today we would not be having a discussion on these matters. It is therefore unacceptable that because of market capitalism - I will not use the ugly words that speak of some kind of turbo capitalism - also the attitude towards natural security policy is really losing ground under the feet. We talk a lot. That's why I used to sit in this hall, even though I didn't discuss it. The Forest Act, to hear what Members of Parliament will say in three hours about a law that deals with a similar subject. So we talk about this a lot. But when we face specific issues as in this case, we close our eyes and push our heads into the sand. It is simple to say, although it was in the public and even in the centenary of the organization, whose representatives are sitting up here today, it has been repeatedly said that more than 22,000 hunters in Slovenia, who are united in a voluntary civil society organisation of the Hunting Union, the example - I will use this word - of nature conservation behavior. And that he cannot come to the fore here and above this example of this nature-protection behavior. And the politicians they're raising, some kind of commercial interest. He could be subordinated to it. He can't be on top of it. And to set here another parable that reminds me in confidence of this or that brings up a discussion. I don't want you to have, instead of hunting families in the future, like golf clubs, established hunting clubs for the elite, for those who have money. The only difference will be that the golf clubs and balls will have a rifle on their shoulder and a holster of bullets. There'll be a few. There won't be as many as I mentioned here that there are 22,000 naturalists who can set an example for us. And to make another comparison in the end. I do not think that anyone can object to the fact that one of the most numerous societies - I am talking about firefighters - has played and is playing one of the most important missions, the task they have in natural disasters and, above all, in caring for the material goods of people. And as is the case with firefighters, so is hunters when we talk about nature conservation issues. It's a big group of people, too. Just like I said before, which can only be for example. In short, let me finish. I took a brief summary of everything because the last month was publicized. And I made such a short file, and I'm going to read it. It's not long. It's three minutes. So the question arises in itself: Does everything that is good and good really have to be destroyed work for the good of all? And if we want to be hairy, then let's say that the Constitutional Court has given a long time ago an opinion that the law needs to be amended constitutionally, because it is controversial and aligned with the Constitution. In the case of concessions for the allocation of hunting grounds for 20 years, there was no dispute. And it was all professionally justified. However, the Ministry has not implemented the law in the last three years and has not granted concessions. It is said that the law has not been implemented, the Ministry of Agriculture has not been working under the law, which has been in force for three years now. Now that this matter has to be coordinated and implemented by 23 November, the Ministry has come up with these changes. So the profession of biologists, foresters, hunting kicked into the darkness while defending and still defending 20 years. So, of course, it would be much more credible if the founders of this novel were to tell the hunters in the face, as one of the readers wrote in the readers' letters, that they have been working unprofessionally and all the wrong things in our forests, that we have such a variety of game and beast in our forests. It would obviously be better if the situation was similar to that of Italy, Croatia. I add, even in Germany, France and so on. In short, I propose once again that this amendment, which we have tabled in the SD Group of Members, should it not be, and then the second one, which is identical, we accept and thus resolve what remains to be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A respected minister with a team! Respectable comrades hunters on the balcony, colleagues and colleagues! There are six hard days behind us of this 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. It's just a bad day. We're concluding this pre-festive session. Whether it is a coincidence or not, it does not matter that this point is the last of our 32nd regular meeting of the National Assembly. But I do know that it's extremely important and up to date. In particular, in the debate itself today, as I have listened to the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. Today's discussions also show that the last 100 years of this relationship in Slovenia are a long time, a successful time that has survived many systems with rising and falling, more friendly and less friendly policies. And believe me, you will survive this too, that the matter of hunting will go on even when we are no longer here in Parliament. But I'm aware of that. Allow me a sincere congratulations on this celebration of yours. I hope you've celebrated him with dignity. I also believe that the National Assembly and the Government will contribute to this, including today's debate that hunting will continue to be as kind, as it is. And if I'm allowed to talk about this amendment, which is a topic that talks about the length of the award of concessions - 10 or 20 years. I don't know why he's 30. I don't know that answer. I don't know why forests are 20 years old, and why are hunters 10 years old?Oh, my God! It's hard for me to explain. Finally, as mayor of the municipality of Sevnica, I have been actively monitoring hunting families for almost 10 years in my municipality, which celebrated the 60th anniversary last year and this year. According to my assessment and assessment of my municipal policies, a successful mission. An extremely successful mission, which they cultivate both to nature and to the wild and to balance and thus preserve this protection of nature. This is an extremely successful story from a local point of view. I can't tell you what's going on elsewhere in Slovenia. I don't know so much about these things, but I have this experience for us more than good, and we also work together as a congregation. We have been doing what they have been doing in recent times, increasingly successfully to our farmers in the recovery of the damage caused by the game. This is a closed circle and I cannot imagine this mission without hunters in one local community, such as a congregation with relatively large families, as well as a relatively large amount of wealth with savagery and the number of forests. So, Mr Minister, I don't know, otherwise I know that this is a debate and this law is already quite pressing that it goes back many years when I wasn't even in Parliament and I wasn't burdened with it. Not back, I'm looking at the present and the future, what happens when it happens and what's what's best. I believe that there have been many conversations, discussions, discussions at such a level and at a different level as to how to bring this legislation closer together. To this day, however, I see that we have not come close enough and that we have not reached the goal that would be in the interests of the Government, Members, if you will, not least the Hunting Union of Slovenia. That's the problem. You know that I am a man who wants to seek compromises, looking for solutions that will be optimal, because eventually such a change will happen to hunters, wildlings, environmental protection, forests and so on. In this case, I am by no means able to imagine in the form of some private stories that would have done this thing more successfully than those of today's hunting families in the local community or the Hunting Union in the field of the Republic of Slovenia. But I can be wrong. Maybe it's in other environments -- as I said before -- it can do differently and worse. But I don't think that's true. That is why I think that, after today's debate, we will have to take some time to think about and do what is expected of us, not least, by all those who are somehow related to this law. And these -- believe me -- are a lot. Not only do hunters know the government, but there are many other citizens. It is therefore appropriate to listen to this voice, to listen to one another, and to seek the way out of this salvation. There's always a way, there's always a way, if there's a will, and the will has to be on both sides. Not just on one side. That is why I believe that the thing about extending the concession to 20 years, I do not know what would be lost. I can't answer that and no one has answered me yet what will be wrong with the government, in the case of the Hunting Union, hunting families, future concessionaires and so on, if it will be 20 years. This brings us closer in some way to the hunting links of Slovenia, to many hunting families across Slovenia and shows one will, the right way, because we also want to get a little closer to you. I think that's exactly what I would have done if this was done on a local level and if the municipality were to grant concessions, I would certainly have approached the hunting families in the municipality of Sevnica. And the second question is, of course, I welcome these concessions and I think that this is a big step forward, to share it, half for the country, half for the local community. It's a compromise. I think it is a good move and that, however, it is necessary to welcome the proposer of this law, that he has also approached local communities, which are usually somehow removed when something needs to be gained in the local budget. This is a good gesture, positive and I welcome it as well as many other things that I think are very positive, well-directed and, in fact, except for these little things that I consider to be small. After all, when you give it away, you can take it. That's always possible. The power of the government has always been like this if things don't work out. I am sure that we will find this compromise and go against what the mission of the hunting union is. It is the mission of a hunter, which some look very narrowly. It's just that big shot, and it's not like that. It's a lot more. I speak from my own practice, from my own experience and not least from my own family experience. My father was a good, passionate hunter, and I also saw from a close angle what it means to be a hunter. Some people just watch a shot and stuff, which of course it's not. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-workers! We seek such compromises to satisfy a wider circle of people, not just a fraction. Those who might press the key for, I will press myself if you follow these concerns to move the concession to 20 years and thus satisfy many hunters in Slovenia. These are, according to the latest data, 22,000. This is not a small population that cares - in my opinion - good and exemplary for game, for nature protection and for our common future in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u97	Thank you. I reopen the possibility of applying for a debate on Article 6 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Sušnik! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you. The Wildlife and Hunting Act is trying to regulate the ongoing conflict between hunters, trying to preserve some of the acquired positions between land owners representing hunting. We have also taken this into account in the 2004 law, which we - as I said - supported. I myself also acted on behalf of the parliamentary group at the time, and already in article 65 of the law we installed a security guard that practically prevents hunting families from becoming a member of this hunting family in the area of a hunting ground, someone who has a registered agricultural or similar activity, which has 15 hectares or more of the hunting grounds. In this way, I think we have justified, to some extent, the entitlements of land owners and forests. I think that this is a good provision that could kind of smooth the conflict in this area. I would like to remind the hunting fraternity on the balcony above that it was before the 1960s when hunting families in Slovenia were established after II. World War II, we are now at the time of these celebrations, which are dedicated to the 60th anniversary of the establishment of hunting families, that at that time the founding members were mostly farmers. In particular, for the area from which I come, there were only two founding members of the Vransko hunting family who were not farmers. And the conflict in that initial period, the conflict between the hunting family and landowners was significantly smaller than it was at a given moment or greater later when the relationship between the membership changed to the detriment of farmers, landowners. I will also say that I do not understand the opposition to this provision, which was drawn up by the Minister after all on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that it is simply not constitutionally consistent, that the second concession also confers a priority on hunting families currently managing hunting grounds, so that you are afraid of farmers of your kind, landowners of your kind. I am convinced that a revised structure in this respect would only contribute better to improving relations between hunting families and landowners and the local environment, as should be said. In the past, these relationships have not always been the best. I believe, I also know that, because of the guilt of the leadership of some hunting families, which have neglected local influences or which in some way contributed to the decline in the number of farmers, the number of agricultural land owners in hunting families. This is how these hunting families lost contact with the local environment, their contact with reality. I don't talk everywhere, and it wasn't very rare when they said, "Go, the hunters go, shut the dogs, everything goes with him." That's what's been going on. It must be said that at a time when the new law was being discussed, following the independence of Slovenia, certain rules were also adopted within the framework of hunting societies, that it had substantially changed with accepted hunting ethics, which was that hunting families had deliberately and deliberately improved their relationship with the local environment and that the situation had changed significantly. It also substantially changed in the period following the adoption of the law in 2004, when it was clear that concessions would be granted and that the local community was also given a greater role by adopting this law in the preparation of similar and annual hunting plans. And I think it's right that there have been changes in this direction. And what is enshrined in Article 65 of the current law and what is enshrined in the amendment to the law that we are considering today is given priority in the next award of concessions to those hunting families that have most of the local membership that are landowners is absolutely in place. I am convinced that this is the greatest possible contribution to the elimination of conflicts between hunting families and landowners. See, I have also said that the proposal to shorten the concession is understood as a compromise that the Minister has brought to the table with the aim of obtaining concessions. We said that we have or are generally known that there are 22,000 or more hunters in Slovenia. But we forgot to say that there are quite a few hunters who are denied the right to engage in hunting. Why? Because their hunting grounds are of particular importance, state hunting grounds, and we have hunting families that don't have hunting grounds. Some hunters are denied the right to engage in hunting. And in efforts to obtain concessions, where this thing would also be arranged to interfere with these fisheries, state-owned fisheries, fisheries with special meaning and in these areas, to grant concessions to certain hunting families, who ultimately have a historical right to do so. I am convinced that this would also not be a significant breach of the purpose of establishing state-owned hunting grounds. There'd be a problem. This aspect should also be seen in the Minister's proposal on the length of the concession. This must be understood by the attempt to regulate these present conflicts in order to obtain concessions, which I am sure should already come. I will also repeat what I said before, a large part of the blame for not having yet signed concessions, but also carrying hunting families or the Hunting Union of Slovenia. The response to the Hunting Order was completely inadequate by the hunters. A bunch of complaints. It turned out that you were "stammering" around the borders and with these complaints, with these objections you practically attacked those solutions that you yourself proposed in the 2004 Hunting Act. This is the fact that 2,000 hectares is a condition for the award of a concession or for the hunting family to receive a concession. And that's a simple fact. This was even the case in the area of north-eastern Slovenia. We, who were already in the parliamentary groups, were basically swamped daily with a host of protests to determine these hunting grounds. Undoubtedly, there was a dissatisfaction with the identification of hunting grounds. The little sense that would have been necessary in order to resolve this, but to transfer some 100 or 200 hectares from a particular hunting ground to a hunting ground that did not meet the 2,000-acre condition, which should eventually be moderated also by the Hunting Union of Slovenia, this did not happen. Everyone insisted on their hunting ground so I wouldn't say anything else and defend my position. This was also one of the key reasons why concessions have not yet been granted. I'm sure the basic Wildlife and Hunting Act is good. To continue to provide environmentally friendly care for the wild. And I'm sure that's the maximum compromise between hunters and landowners. And since no one is satisfied with this law, neither hunters nor landowners, it shows that the legislator has given priority to no interested party. However, we all get occasional, all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who enjoy this public interest, which is expressed through the fact that we continue to have free access to the forest, including through hunting arrangements, in all respects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! So, on behalf of the Zares Group, I have previously stressed in my presentation of our position that, until the end of the vote, we will hope that so many responsible Members and Members in this Assembly are unable and must not be adopted. A few debates now also strengthen me in this hope that this will be the case. Above all, it is either the debate on this supplement or the one given by the Social Democrats Group of the Member States, or the one complemented by the LDS and the Really Group of the Member States, that the concession should be allowed for 20 years, so that it does not change. This is what should be very clearly highlighted. Apparently, we're going to listen to everything that's related to hunting today. Also because of the audience, even because of the topic which is very sensitive, which shows how important hunting has been for Slovenia and Slovenia in these 100 years and that it is therefore so important how we decide. I am pleased that, at this point, some colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party no longer need to ask themselves, too bad that they did not vote differently in the Forest Act because they would otherwise support a different solution. Today, I am sure, at this point, they have the opportunity to vote in order to delete this article. It remains 20 years or the proposed 10 years turn into 20 years. It's very easy to do. And in this way they will have what respected colleague Sušnik said was confirmed in 2000 by the Slovenian Democratic Party of the Hunting Act to help support it. However, at the time it was written down for 20 years, today the proposer took advantage of the moment of the Constitutional Court's judgement and turned these 20 into 10. That's the point of this conflict. These differences in the debates, which show that the Government is coming back again, even in such a sensitive law, quickly. Three and a half years, nothing happened. It was awesome. They were all that a fellow Sušnik explained. Now, quickly after the reduced procedure, the change in the period of the concession and what we will warn the rest of the articles. This indicates that the sincere desire and will of the Government or of the one who ordered it was not that we should reach the right time with a broad professional debate for all interested parties. Probably when it was set for 20 years, it was also not because someone remembered and wrote that moment for 20 years, but that there were many professional arguments for it and that such a law was also supported by the opposition at the time. That is why I believe, though, that Mr Jarc, a Minister respected by Mr Jarc, is very much appreciated that his statement, which has been written so many times, is not intended to break down hunting. And I honestly believe that. The more I doubt the one that somehow, I'm sure, has only come to these 10 years. Because if we read the Coalition Treaty, it is written about the area of hunting: "The Coalition will strive in the field of wildlife management to maintain and maintain the balance of animal species and such wildlife management as will ensure the normal development of agriculture and rural areas." It is said that when the new power comes in the coalition treaty, there is no word that the solutions in the hunting law are bad and that they need to be saved. That is why there is probably no such proposal until this point, when it is also from what Comrade Sušnik said, that this is a compromise between hunters and landowners for 10 years. This I think is a very bad solution, that all the quotations that have already been read today and will still be in this debate prove that this is a bad solution and that this is really a dead compromise. A compromise that goes to the detriment of our environment, our forests, our wildlings and our inhabitants of this beautiful Slovenia. If we have introduced ourselves before, I am not a hunter myself, but I am a member of the golf club, by the way, that I am the mayor of a municipality where two hunting families work and very successfully, very well and that their contribution to the protection of the environment is not only a hunting fraternity, but it starts with kindergarten, with primary schools, with youth and cooperation with the place, that is invaluable values and that it is such a sensitive topic as that, the hunting law certainly is an inappropriate way to adopt after a reduced procedure. And that this very time of reflection was probably taken away from us because it is difficult to find at least one intelligent argument, why not 20 and why insisting on 10 years. So I am convinced that all those colleagues who have concerns are simply voting for the amendment of the Social Democrats, the LDS or the Group of Members. Indeed, it is sufficient that the solution remains the same as in the basic law that you have already adopted by your colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party in 2000. And that there is no reason not to confirm it again and that at least in this part this law would be such that it could then be implemented successfully in life.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u102	Your Honor! I will vote in favour of the first and second amendments if it is necessary to vote on the second one in this article. I knew there would be resistance to the implementation of this law. Based on the experience I had when we adopted this law. However, to be so violent and not to enforce the law because of these resistances, I did not think that this could happen in the rule of law. That's not true, Mr. Sušnik. I count on your fingers the number of hunting families who complained that they were missing a few hundred hectares and couldn't agree with their neighbors to give them up. This is just some Slovenian "manoeuvring" - I wouldn't go into it and don't want to give up and that's why it's impossible to grant concessions. But the answer that the Cabinet sent to interested hunters or hunters in July 2005 is why you will not grant concessions. And you say, "Because some resist, and because some complain, and because they want us to change it.".. But please! How is it even possible in the state of law that the Cabinet of the Government would say that they would not enforce the law because someone resisted? This means that even on the road or anywhere in front of Global, as I was saying, because someone resisted and disappeared, the law doesn't apply there. That's not a good example. I think it's wrong that we talk so much about hunting as we do, about hunting relationships, about these "scrapers" and so on. For the starting point is clear. The State has adopted a series of laws and regulations in the field of nature protection, treatment of nature, interference with space and so on. This law should be seen in a series of laws starting with the Law on Nature Protection. And if this law could only have the title of the Wildlife and Wildlife Management Act, there might also be fewer ideological problems. This is a classic ideological battle. Are we going back to feudalism? Will we follow the path that the modern world has fully recognised from year to year, from time to time, from each Presidency of the European Union? We will probably bring something to this Europe too. Standards, some quality of life, the relationship between capital, employment, people and so on, will rise to a higher level. I hope so. The property is indeed the world, not unlimited. Not the one that is untouchable when it comes to some human resources, such as air, water, and the like, and which must be accessible to all under certain conditions. God does not let you close the mountain trails tomorrow, which go along - even these thoughts were when we adopted the Mountain Routes Act to simply close the paths where people go to Triglav or anywhere else. We're not good at writing. Modern Europe and modern legal arrangements are going in the direction of regulating things in a way that property - as I said - is untouchable. Under certain conditions, however, it is not unlimited. It can also be limited and allowed in some way to co-use, human co-use. There's no way we're gonna buy each other our own tree and breathe fresh air. There's no way we're gonna buy a house every time we go down the stream and watch the fish and drink the water from this stream. It is therefore necessary to highlight something in this context. The law itself, Mr. Minister, has also divided the Hunting Union of Slovenia into action in the public interest. What is public interest? Is the government the first one to worry about providing conditions for those who have been given something in the public interest by law? So you, you, me, on purpose I'm not talking about either hunters or families or relationships or I don't know what. What for? I have a lot of friends. But I'm not a hunter or anything else that has anything to do with it. So if the state has granted this by law, it must make it possible. It has to make it possible to do that. I will not talk about all the things that have been in the decade and over, in the decade and more, and have been coordinated through, and there have been strong carriers to say so, and by weight and political weight, from Bavčar, Lešnik and any other who have put laws into the procedure for years and years. But they didn't go because the resistance was great. The time has come for the marriage to be adopted. It could also be upgraded by the functions of managing all functions in nature, the function of the Hunting Union under programmes carried out by the Institute for Forests, which, together with the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, with local communities and with all those who, in one way or another, have their responsibilities in these matters, to harmonise and lead in accordance with certain regulations and in accordance with a contract called the concession contract, and any profession that has been linked. It's not just the one that's tied to savages, it's those experts in nature. Even those lawyers who deal with concessional forms of concession contracts, etc., the preparation of all these things, have ensured that 20 is what is appropriate. Since it means when it comes to a matter that is not dependent on the current decisions, but primarily on sustainability, it refers to development, it refers to conservation. After all, I have also made a very personal introduction to this issue of things that I did not even know that this Slovenia has such habitats that no other country has in its immediate and distant surroundings. That these were plans that have been implemented for a decade and go back a decade if we want all these things to be preserved and developed as we would like them to be. And my question here is: Is public interest at risk by reducing it from 20 to 10 years? Does this not raise the question of how to deal with these matters in the way envisaged? I'd like to know. Even more so because Mr Sušnik says that there have been so many complaints and that concessions have not been granted. But, look, the interesting thing is, if that were true, we'd change the law quickly and we'd only adopt one word. I'm sorry. I wanted to accept it at the time or because I was accidentally among the billmakers. I liked that it was a rule, but some insisted that only 2,000. It was 2,000, and it was wrong. We'd only change one word. We would add "rules" and even those of 1990 or 1,800 hectares could do it. However, we could do so within one month, within one meeting, by emergency procedure and resolve the matter. But no. Here, let's put things on our heads. So that now, because of one tree or one animal, which is necessary to put in place here, following a decision by the Constitutional Court, we will now burn down the guest or, so to speak, give up saying that I will not say anything else, to all the habitat we have and which, in this way, as it is now established, at least I understand it, well and coordinate it in one way or another within the Ministry of Agriculture. So planning, control - I don't know what everything - is about forests, but professional services that just deal with it, including some of the others that I've talked about before. And here, I'm going back to the same question. Tell me, what about public interest? I know, you can say, even in 10 years, this public interest can be guaranteed qualitatively. But I say that it is, however, disstimulating and even if it is not the introduction of what you say, of a different, private hunt and so on, but it is certainly a firm extension in the law that this can happen in the second award. That's what you built in. That's why I support that we either go back to what happened or do something better.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and Members, as well as all the hunters who accompany us here on the balcony! In fact, it is repeated in this National Assembly. I'm not gonna praise you like some people do before me. I'll tell you what I think. I can't imagine what it would look like if the owners of agricultural land and forests came to this stage on this balcony. I'd probably be a lot too small. But they're just dealing with other things. They're probably preparing their fields for the fall seed, and so on and so forth, and they don't have time. Mr Anderlič was first signed under this law, which has not yet entered into force, not entirely. With all he has said, I can agree, that everyone can't buy his own tree and not even his own piece of land, as it is, he, as a farmer, can land ashore. Of course, this is not given to everyone. Some were given. He was given and also knows the procedure by which he was given. Perhaps it would be better if I didn't check in sometimes, so that other Members wouldn't have to remind him of these things. But okay, let's leave it at that. Look, when we talk about this, 10 or 20 years of concession. In fact, from this point of view, as I understand it, it kind of doesn't matter. 20 years or 10 years. So in ten years it can be rationally managed by a wildling, in 20 years it can. This law is in some way trying to go against the owners of agricultural land and forests, because when we ask ourselves what kind of game it is. Is it from the jagroms? It's not. Is it from the owners of agricultural land? It's not. We said, "What if it's from the state?" We're one of the few countries, but somehow we all agreed. Thus, the State has in some ways restricted ownership rights, which it can do under the Constitution, and the owners of agricultural land agree. But they want some antidote to this reduced right. But it is not fair to arrange in some way that there is no conflict and that Jagris, say hunters and owners of agricultural land and forests are somehow cooperating and that these matters are handled by great. Some of you say this arrangement would bring us back. I don't know what you said 100 years ago in a period of some feudalism. Good thing we don't speak German because we'd probably be laughing so much over there on the other side of Caravank that we could hear it. How do our neighbors have this arranged? But the Austrians have been behind us for 100 years?Oh, my God! They've been behind us for hundreds of years. Some of you might think they're a hundred years behind us. Only you will not be able to convince the Slovenian public. But you can if you believe that they've been behind us for a hundred years. How are they doing? Thus, hunting is considered an economic activity in Austria. I don't know. I have no argument that I would not believe what they wrote down because it is an economic activity there. They estimate that it brings them half a billion euros of revenue per year in different directions. What's our concession? 500 000 euros apiece as much as they estimate, 80 million euros for the hunt itself. If we ignore all tourism and everything else. We've got 500 thousand euros. Yeah, O. K. Hunters worry. Nobody said that hunters don't care about savages. What some would like to point out over and over again is how, but besides hunters, there are also farmers and foresters who take care of the game. If you weren't worried, how would the hunters take care of it?Oh, my God! I'm not one or the other. And I'd love to. Mr Sayovic said earlier how much he likes to see the deer. I, as a veterinarian, like to see animals in nature. You've told some what you do in your spare time. I deal with bees and I think it's an extraordinary activity, but I'm watching something. I observe that beekeepers are older year after year and that when I also go to lectures, there are fewer and fewer beekeepers. And even with the Jags, it will be no different if we do not somehow settle these matters in such a way that there will be no conflict and that in some way it will also be satisfied if we limit some right by Article 33 of the Constitution to balance it on the other hand. The owners of agricultural land and forests do not require any compensation. They don't ask for it. However, they want to be treated equally by the law in some way. And don't they have that right? Who, apart from the revolutionary power that took that away from them, can take that right away from them at a time of democracy? Or this House? If he will do so, of course he is not a democratic parliament. Then Parliament is one country that still imagines that it can somehow regulate everything at the state level. This correction of this article is one small attempt to somehow get closer in the long run. I don't understand why hunters would object. And I'll tell you one more piece of information. And if this is the purpose, only in the area of our municipality Ormož, which is less than 1% of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia - there are 0.91% of the territory of the Republic - we had 326 pieces of transported game in 2006. 326. Is this the purpose of the hunt for our wildlings, most of all, that we have damaged cars, probably other damaged people, extensive material damage, and eventually so many pieces of wildlings? So something will have to be changed in the field of our hunting. And those who spoke about how in Croatia this is all and also some hunters, up from the top, not the ones from the bottom, from the top explain, of course Mrs. Possonchev could tell where wild pigs come from, causing harm to Gorički, from where the game comes to us and so on. So, of course, it is said here that because of another principle of hunting organization, Croatians shot all their wildlings. Of course it doesn't. And even this law, which some so oppose, does not bring about such major revolutionary changes in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe. Excuse me, Mr. Stebe! Mr. Anderlich has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u106	Mr Sok, of course, it is understandable and I know that this resistance is also based primarily on your insistence and that you have conditioned the Government and that you have used even some ministers to block the regulation at the request of the RCC. Black on white paper. We don't have anything to play with. We don't have anything to play with. It says black on white. Tell them you're advocating for the Middle Ages, for the return of the Church to be the High Commissioner. Mussolini decommissioned her in Italy. Franz Joseph had it unloaded in our quarters and elsewhere. If you think we can go back in the democratic world and in times of different relationships, that's fine. But I don't want to go back with you. I want to move on. And by the way, I've explained it to you ten times. I didn't even buy a square foot of land. I wanted to make my way. You and your demagogies and yours, from your end to the man who interfered with the story, you stopped it. It's okay. I can still walk down the stairs, and I'll be there for a while, but justice will come on the day. But I'm asking you not to lie forward and forward, but you're wondering if maybe you've forgotten her.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the hunters! Well, this last one of my predecessors was a real Middle Ages. Speaking of this context right now, it's actually very interesting to have this medieval relationship. So those who for six decades have this right given to them are, in some way, trying to trouble things how to move on. This is said to be another 20 years of the Middle Ages, or some believe that it should last a little less than 10 years, since we are in democracy and some other non - February times. It's a very interesting comparison to the Middle Ages. It is a pity, however, that all of this has been reduced to either 10 or 20 or 20 or 10 and that this is now the main crucial issue in all the good aspects of the previous law and the current improvement, and changes, especially the actions of hunters and hunting families. At least in that sense, sustainable long-term conservation of nature. In this case live nature, as well as nature as such, forests. I do not consider it, nor do I wonder why this is now such a big question. 10 or 20 years on 60 years of base. In fact, this is not even a concession as we know it from the economy. Maybe it's something like we know in health care. Concession is obtained in a competitive fight in a positive sense on the market by tendering, who gives better conditions and so on. There's no real comparison here, I said. But it can in a certain sense, but it is a fundamental fundamental human right. Why not treat the owners of these lands equally here? After all, hunters will have as members of hunting families, societies will be burdened with all the concerns and duties they now have as operators. After all, that's the way it is. But the point is that this feudal relationship ends in some way in a transitional period of 10 years, they grant formal concessions to the current masters during this period and then after 10 years, things are equal to all possible candidates for concessionaries in these fisheries. What exactly is the problem here? It's problematic, in my opinion, that this is a delay, this long time. After all, hunting families will have a great advantage as established by good practices, with good performance, with good references to continue this work, which they do well. And I really don't know why it's so vehemently problematic. At the same time, I am surprised at the information that the 2004 law could not be enforced at all, not by the fault of the state, the ministry, the government, but by those who are supposed to cooperate partnerly and constructively within the meaning of the law in order to enforce it. I'm really surprised. That no one would think I had any such or other interests. I don't have any interests. I walk and run through the woods and actually enjoy seeing wildlings in nature. Sometimes I meet even some hunter, and often dogs that aren't from hunters, but from everyone else and move around in the woods. I don't think it's right to talk about good and bad cases that a person sees in the operations of hunters and forest owners. But I think that this 20 or 10 dilemma is wrong, and we shouldn't just reduce it to this fatal number. This feudal relationship should end in some meaningful, normal transition period. This period is certainly sufficient for 10 years. In this respect, I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished visitors on the balcony! First of all, I think it's too much for my colleague Posedel and colleague Uhanovo to worry about our understanding of this law and the law that was just about to be passed, the Law on Forests. In this law, I will say that I support and have actively participated in the coordination of this law. I support many solutions that are very good in this law. Therefore, it must be supported at the final stage, except, of course, that there is still a need for a thorough reflection on Articles 6 and 7 of the amendments and Articles 25 and 26 of the basic law. So, I'm going to talk about both for a little while because you've already pointed out the importance and problems of others in your performances many times. First of all, I would like to repeat what some of my colleagues, including my colleagues, have already mentioned, because there was a clear duality in our previous marriage. I think that now, if you are coordinating a coalition matter, you are arguing there and, of course, what kind of a deal should you agree, Mrs Uhanova, that in this case there is no duplicity, but of course you understand the coalition coordination a little bit in your own way. I'd say that. We have an existing law. This existing proposal of the Law on Hunting and Wildlife has long been valid in previous mandates and was then, I think, adopted three years ago. This law required the issuing of an act on concessions to hunting families. As far as I know, if I have the right information, the first such proposal for a regulation has also been prepared by the previous agricultural minister for a government meeting. However, because of various interventions, in particular one of the ministers, this regulation has always gnawed from the government procedure down. I regret that because some things would have been resolved for a while. I don't think it's duplicity, but to some extent it's illegal. As I said, most of these provisions covered by this amendment of the law must be adopted. They're good. I expect that we will not make a final decision on the amendments at today's meeting, but that we will take some time until the next meeting, at least, and that we will consider these matters in depth around Articles 25 and 26, and eventually find some significantly better solutions. In the event that there is no agreement in the State Assembly today at the end of the vote, in this case I expect the National Assembly to support certain amendments at Articles 6 and 7 and thus allow for a thorough reflection until the next meeting. And what I would stress is that one thing, which is not the matter of these changes to the law, is the substance of the basic law. These are special-purpose hunting grounds. We all know. We've discussed these many times. I agreed that in these changes of the law we do not interfere with this area, that in some areas these fisheries are necessary, that there is also no interest or possibility of organising hunting families in these areas, that they really have a particular purpose. However, I am also convinced that where this possibility exists, there is an expert option. Where hunting families are properly organised or are free to listen to these wishes, and also to this part of these hunting grounds, the Ministry or Government shall grant concessions to hunting families who will be interested. So, if I repeat or withdraw my implementation, I would say that I expect that we will not decide on this today and that we will take the time of Article 6 and Article 7 for a thorough reflection and a slightly different solution. Otherwise, we will vote in such a way that we will have this option until the third hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u112	I would like Mr Presecnik to focus on the law we have before us and to leave my name behind in his explanations and views of the People's Party. I said the position of New Slovenia. Before that, I referred to Article 33, or the Law on Forests, and told them what was going on on the committee. And since you were not present at the committee meeting, not here at the meeting, you find it difficult to understand what was going on or what was the process of investing and withdrawing the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable colleagues, colleagues, guests! Who among us wasn't watching the famous Disney cartoon Bambi? Who among us would want to shoot such a beautiful bean? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, let the animals live, and let the hunters take care of the natural balance. Since when do animals need concessions? Animals do not know the Schengen Agreement and we cannot limit them, ladies and gentlemen. We can't. Animals go where they like. Let's leave them alone. Let's not kill, let's not shoot! Do not deal with such laws, with animal concessions, 10 years, 20 years. By earning someone to hire a hunter to shoot an animal, an animal that keeps balance. And don't make a profit out of this law, no. I mean, very gently. Animals don't need concessions. They do not understand the Schengen Agreement and do not understand borders. Do you at least understand that? Therefore, the proposal of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 6 of the Understanding does not exist and cannot be made for animals. He can't. It can't be, not 20 years or 10. Let them live. Hunters help animals who die who are sick. They feed them over the winter and take care of balance in nature. Can you imagine discussing such amendments and such a law about humans? Where there's too many, we'll shoot them. Please, come on, ladies and gentlemen! Don't look for a profit. Let's do it. I really don't! The Roman Catholic Church, with all due respect, once again, wants the kindness of a believer to have all of his, not just trees, not just churches, not even animals. And if this animal runs somewhere else and someone shoots her, God forbid, let's leave them alone, they'll pay. Yeah, well, hell, yeah. The animals are our companions in our lives, the pellets are ideal for our children. Let's leave them alone. Let's not put them under concessions. Let's not put them under Schengen agreements, let's not put them in some kind of line, okay? Will you brand them, as in the wild west, cowboys brand cows to know whose cow it is? Are we going to go back to the Sheriff of Notthingham period, who hanged or sentenced to death people who had nothing else to eat and naturally lawfully shot some animal in the woods to eat it and then imprisoned them because it was "like" his? Please, come on! Can at least in relation to animals, to people who care for them who feed them during the winter and who care for balance, or can we at least leave these people in peace with their attitude toward these animals to do what is right? Just like it's right. If she's sick, they help her with a shot or medication. If there are too many, they help them balance. Let us be human and not give life under concessions. Let's not put animals under Schengen agreements and let the wildlings take care of them. I'll say it one last time. You know, the best is the saying: "The hunter who goes into the woods in the morning to be with his friends, even if he folds up, or if he gives himself a spike or two of them, he prefers a dog on his shoulder, but he pulls a rifle on the ground, and he pulls a gun on the ground, like the one who shoots at the head and doesn't have a clue." We support the amendment to Article 6 to delete this Article absolutely. Concession on 10, 20 - I don't know why - it doesn't make sense. Let's leave the animals. Let them be an example to our children. Let them live in a natural balance with us humans so that they do not speak of the same law of men within 10 years. That's what I'm afraid of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with the team! We will also support the amendments because we have tabled the same amendment to Article 6. However, it was not adopted, and since our proposals in the coalition are not, as a rule, supported, we expected, according to the ratio of forces, that there is no hope in the third reading, or that the article will not be opened, but it is fortunate. In this respect, we are convinced that the amendment must also be supported in order to make the law more acceptable as a whole, because it is somehow acceptable in the rest of the solutions. Of course, by amending Article 6, we would adopt a law that would be acceptable to all except those who actually force themselves into the Middle Ages. Indeed, I believe that there are not so many accidents and transported animals in Croatia. But not because they don't have them, because the wildlings are gone. I hit a deer years ago, and I felt more sorry for it than for the damage to a car that wasn't small because the car was almost new. And I didn't argue with the hunting family about what would happen to the compensation, because there was no sign or anything like that. But it's life to jump an animal on the road. I'm all alone to survive our animals. This hunting stock of our game must continue to be defended. The problem of opposition to the law on our part is also that we are aware that, when we adopt a law with a ten-year concession period, this would mean too short for hunting families and for the last time after the summit. Because then someone else will be awarded a concession, as a rule, the owner of the forest, some who defend such a shorter period today have predicted it directly. So there's no more illusion about what's going to happen, regardless of the Minister's claim that there won't be any private hunting grounds. Of course, there will be no private hunting grounds. But they'll be private, I could say, hunting families that will shoot wildlings for commercial purposes. This has been said today, in terms of management. Mastership pays off if it's a profit. There is no profit from the "scart" that hunting families exterminated during the game today. I was in a hunting cabin weird because there were no beautiful horns and one of the hunters here said, "You know, you don't know that we haven't shot these pretty ones in years. They must remain for development, for a better genetic structure in our hunting grounds and our game, and therefore you will not find." There'll always be fewer of those capitalist, most beautiful trophies, because that's not the point. It's a different purpose. And if I sum up the observation that one grain of 350 thousand owners would divide it by getting every six, seven pieces of that value, then I don't understand the idea of economic behaviour in the field of hunting by those who are defending it today. Because I don't believe that in their hunting grounds, private, later it will be possible to shoot more than a few ten heads of game at 100 hectares and even worse. Unless they think they're most expensive, the best thing to do is shoot and sell them to strangers who can pay for it and for the breeding and for the continuation of the species, they won't care much. Those are the reasons, not the ones that we would. We're in the Desus client, and we're not promising votes from the hunters. These are mostly young people who can run and jump through the woods and hunt and so forth, but we are honest about things and therefore defend it in this form. And that's why we'll be supporting the amendments and the marriage if you get it. If not, unfortunately we won't be able to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman. Say hello to all of them again. Earlier in the debate, it was heard that there was some conflict between hunters and landowners in this country. I'm wondering about hunting law here. Two, three years or four, five years ago, we didn't talk much. The conflict causes narrow, selfish interest in the 100s or maybe 120 new villains who want more than they do. It was right, and I agree that we returned the woods to them yesterday. Today they want the deer, tomorrow the raspberries, blueberries, mushrooms, next time the ramps and fences. What do you think, abroad, that someone who deals with private money, that he lets someone pick his mushrooms and scares the savages? Do you think he agrees that in the morning, when the first rays of the sun go, the recreationals run there? Far from it. He wants peace on his parcels. Whoever doesn't know what this looks like, look at the crossing of Ljubljana and the road to Old Love on our market, Slovenia. Any minute, he can go up there and do whatever he wants. But when you go to the first turn under the border crossing in Koroška, there's a sign that says what's forbidden, what's not allowed, what's private property. That's a fact. Before that, there was a misunderstanding of how many farmers we have in Slovenia, how many owners of forest and agricultural land we have. The Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, whose law we will change, has about 150,000, I think there are even a few more members. However, the subsidy is paid by 70,000. Now some explain that when he is able to hunt, we will save a mountain or other farmer. Far from it. People have enough work to do every day, they don't like to go after a wildling in the woods. But they need other help. They need better roads, they need smaller taxes. Someone says farmers will be better off if they get a deer or a deer. Today, they have a calf that has been sorted for a year, or a bull, or a cattle. He needs to be put in a slaughterhouse. As far as pigs and smallpox are concerned, they are already marked and kept records. First, let us give them what they have in their barns, then that pigeon far on the roof or that deer somewhere on the top of the hill. And then there's this thought that's now disintegrating in this country, and I'm glad that yesterday's echoes, it's in this area when people listen to the representative of the land owners, because we don't have to do anything. Someone's going to tell us next week that the theme we've set up for one of the presidential candidates is again. Listen for God's sake, for you're forcing yourself into an accident. I could also propose, now provocatively, that the SDS Group, which is the only one who advocates this law in this National Assembly, should just put a stop to the matter, withdraw the matter and 'definitely'. However, the State should sign concessions for 20 years, as laid down in the law. Slovenian hunters and hunting organisation already had and has a centuries-old concession. They turned out to be good, excellent masters, naturalists. We didn't exterminate any of the animal species. This is a status that is envied by many in Europe and the world. Who do you think those privates who only see the euro are going to be making puddles, picking up trash, removing waste tires, car shells? There's just no such people. Only the euro, the euro and the euro will be important. But hunters do a lot more for that thing in the hunt. A lot of wetlands, a lot of branches for a little game, were in the mood for a voluntary strike. And as I mentioned earlier in the presentation of the Group's position, very, very much. And a good system needs to be maintained. No coach changes the team that wins. The team of Slovenian naturalists and hunters is undoubtedly successful. And why now give a privileged position to a handful of individuals, I find it really incomprehensible. There are also some of those in this National Assembly who may have learned something from biology at school. To say and to write that in the nature of 10 years, a cycle connected to the life of an animal is simply some absurdity that has no comparison. Let's see, 10, 20, 30 years ago, did something so catastrophic happen in the Slovenian animal world? Nothing at all. There is no reason why we simply should not trust and reward the good satim further. And once again, now I can't get out of my mind, which was said earlier, that the wildlings become the property only when they fall or fall where they fall. This morning it's my deer, last night it was in the garden of the neighbor's Franceln, and tomorrow it's somewhere else, and I have to kill it to make it mine. Yes, listen to my people, I prefer to paint it, I look at it, but the hunters shoot only that certain number, because there is simply not enough natural predators and enemies to balance between stock, between disease and damage in some balance. And these are the solutions we have to defend. That is why this and the next amendment for the 20-year concession will gladly be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. It was not necessary to shorten the concession period. So clearly this is an agreement that the Government has agreed to submit to the procedure a law that radically changes the duration of the concession period. Let me remind you that the Act on concessions now in force speaks of a period of at least 20 years. So it can be 20, 25, 30, 40 or if you want 100 years, but at least 20 years. The Government's proposal is the first to put this Act on Wildlife and Hunting into Procedure, but it speaks of this text being replaced for at least 20 years by a maximum of 10, which means that after their concession period it can be one year, two, three, four but not more than 10. So, a drastic difference in thinking, which actually speaks of the fact that it is not in any way a professional decision, that it is not a decision related to some of the natural legalities, but primarily to capital interests or the interests of narrow interests. So narrow interests of landowners. I think that's incorrect. In particular, because Slovenia has done more than a number of other members of the European Union during its game management period. However, I would like to remind you that this is actually the legislation that is not bound by any regulation on this in the European Union. But it is up to each Member State to decide. And I don't know why we should be able to imitate someone where it's proven that this kind of management, when the game is owned by the landowner, is transferred to Slovenia and why it actually shuts down its space. I have already made it very clear in the Forest Act today that we must pay particular attention to this property. But because there are 80% of private forests in Slovenia. And if we close this area to the public, we have actually changed, dramatically changed the image of Slovenia. And this award of concession after the expiry, now that the committee has accepted ten years. After ten years, these concessions could actually reach the land owners who establish their own society, their own family. In theory, there can be only three of them, or on the basis of legislation. And the condition is fulfilled that they have the right of priority in the award of the concession after the end of the first concession. This period of concession is certainly linked to this interest. That is why we are also proposing an amendment that deletes Article 6 and preserves the current text of the law, which says that the concession is granted for wildlife management for at least 20 years. Like I said, it could be more. This is also a reflection of the actual state of nature and also of wildlife management. We must also be aware that in Slovenia there are still so many and so many hunting houses and that there are also many devices built and installed. In particular, refrigerators which are strictly necessary due to veterinary requirements. And yet, in nature, there are also a number of objects or devices that serve to ensure that the hunt can actually take place in a safe way and in such a way that the animal is engulfed so that the real hit can be done as correctly and accurately as possible and that no damage can be done to others who are present in the forest. All of this was the fruit and work of hunting families, hunters, and, to a large extent, voluntary work. This is how they work, and it would be very interesting to see, although concessions are not I don't know how high the amount. But how much money could someone pay as a private if they had to pay the hunters to mow him or someone else to mow him to take care of everything that needs to be done in the hunt? I'm sure it would have been nothing or more. But if I wanted to get some income out of it, I would really have a larger number of wildlings or some commercially interesting game, which, of course, in that part would certainly be a foreigner. We are very different here from all those countries that have already broken this balance in nature. In Slovenia, however, we still have the opportunity to preserve our natural species in this natural environment and we do not really need foreign species. So this is really about the whole spectrum that we don't have and we can't ignore. It is certainly wise and appropriate to think about not making it impossible for hunting families who have their own infrastructure to become in fact another conflict in nature tomorrow. For how can we expect someone who owns a refrigerator to use a refrigerator to be more successful in granting a concession and how it could actually carry out its activity? I should certainly build my own refrigerator, because I doubt there will be an agreement with existing owners or hunting families who have already built this place to borrow or rent it. In short, there has been a truly extreme conflict situation in nature. The victim would certainly be the nature and, finally, the advantage that we have in Slovenia before everyone else, because they failed to preserve nature in the form that we have. We therefore believe that the mapping of such a change in the concession period is necessary. Of course, we expect our amendment to be adopted, although there are still a number of other shortcomings in other articles. Of course, that is a bit later on in other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, with the 2004 Hunting Act, we were somehow trying to find some cohesion or balance between landowners, managers and hunters. It is true that the eligible landowners might have expected a slightly larger piece of this cake at the time. However, it is also true that those owners of agricultural land engaged in agriculture as a primary activity do not, for the first time, even have time to engage in hunting. Second, because they don't even need to, because they live in this nature, they're part of this nature. However, they expect adequate compensation for the damage caused, and this has also been followed by the 2004 law, and I think that this permanent goal has been achieved. It is true, however, that more and more forest owners and large owners have been emerging recently. These are usually rich people who release their good savings into forest purchases. I don't see anything wrong with that. However, I am firmly convinced, given the knowledge of the situation, that I am not a fan of the green brotherhood, but I know that this brotherhood today is neither prestige nor privilege, but it is a group of some people who are simply enslaved by living nature, I can say. And that these societies are in charge of the purpose given to them by the concession, well. I do not see in this, indeed, better solutions to better manage owners, to manage this issue by forest owners. Thus, the law as proposed is good. In view of the fact that leaves go up in one year, the leaves go down, this does not represent anything in a longer cycle, even with breeding plans, to take account of the purpose of the two amendments in this law, in particular one or the other amendment to Article 6 and the amendment to Article 7. And the rest of the content of the law is, in my opinion, good because it eliminates some weaknesses that were not realized by the law adopted in 2004. I don't see the need for us not to adopt the law. I will certainly support the changes in both articles because I have confidence in hunting families, because these days they have a completely different content than they may have had 25, 30 years ago, that I do not speak before many years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Juban. He's quitting. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. I am reopening my application for a debate on Article 6 and both amendments to this Article. Mr. Bevk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I think that colleague Sok should apologize to the representatives of the 22,000 hunters who are accompanying this meeting today, because he compared them with owners of agricultural land and forests that are not in time, and that they are now working and doing work for the autumn plantation. It's like the hunters who are here today have nothing else to do. I don't agree with that. These are the legitimate representatives of 22,000 hunters and hunters who are united in Slovenian hunting families. Minister of the Regions or I'd rather say something else. My colleague Presecnik had earlier announced that we would postpone the decision on the amendments and on this law at today’s meeting. Something similar has been achieved by the coalition MPs around the law on the provinces or in the package of the law on the provinces. Obviously, when you don't have enough votes and support in the National Assembly, then you put down the solutions, put down the votes. The Minister for the Provinces of Dr. Ivan Žagar said that the number 14 was a political reality. Mr Jarc, Minister of Hunting, said that the number 10 is the result of wildlife biology and the 10-year long-term planning in hunting. I think the opposite, I think it's a political reality or rather a political deal between the Government and a handful of new dignitaries. I think that the arguments for a 20-year concession have been presented here in the National Assembly in the previous term and that reference to biology and management is not sufficiently valid. It was also mentioned earlier that fishermen have 30-year concessions, that there are 20-year concessions in forestry and there are no reasons not to maintain the regime laid down by the previous law when hunting families were able to obtain the basics of that 20-year concession law, so I will of course support the amendment of the Social Democrats that this missed article and this missed solution is deleted from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this amendment, or the other amendment, if the first one did not go through because it is written in one way or another, and the meaning is the same. The same is true because it is no different from the fact that this 6th and 7th articles are linked, and I will also support the amendment to Article 7, because I am convinced that in 100 years of the existence of hunting in Slovenia, hunters are certainly the most qualified to take care of the natural development of our forest, which, apart from standing nature, is said to be in the form of plants and land, also taking care of moving nature, namely animals. For a long time, hunters no longer apply to a group that is satisfied or enthusiastic about killing animals, but is certainly more than 80% of their activities in nature, not only in the forest, but also outside it, related to caring for wild game, for natural balance in nature. We know that predators, other than those who have been repopulated, have been inhabited by hunters along with the biotechnological faculty and the forest institute, would certainly not have the wild population that we have in Slovenia. And we can be proud of her. We have previously heard that in some parts of Slovenia it is practically every day driven on roads by at least one animal, a wild animal, is said to be very widespread throughout Slovenia. It was as if, as in France, and as in Austria, and as elsewhere in Europe, forests should be fenced to prevent wildlings from falling under cars, so that they could fall only under the fire of very rich, very wealthy and very capitalistic people. In France, if you drive miles and miles along roads, miles and miles, you see fences where it says "prive accesses antrdi" and so on, it says, we can see what the effects are there when hunting is occupied or they get the right to fish only by private owners. Here in Slovenia there will certainly be no more than 10,000 owners of small plots joining together and making whole complexes, but those owners who own thousands or more tens of thousands of hectares of forests and also many other fields, fields, fields, pastures, meadows and so on will be charged. It is said that this law is ready for the ambassadors, this law is the first step towards realizing the wishes of the forest owners' associations, those who were once part of the association of denationalising beneficiaries and who made and pressured the National Assembly about 13 years ago when we adopted the first version of the Forest Law when they wanted forests to become inaccessible, untouchable and that they could be ruled and moved only by those who would be allowed to do so. It usually means those who could pay for coming into the woods. And I think that this great concern that we have heard today about the welfare of hunters is that they will still get rid of the protection and care of wild game in the woods if they leave the owners, the ambassadors in the woods, that they will take this great care and this effort. The knowledge they have accumulated through generations and generations in a hundred years certainly do not have the owners of these majestic forests. And I think it's purely ordinary to say that forest owners will be those who take better care of the animals in the woods than hunters. For this reason, I think it is shameful that we should even be able to reduce the concession period to 10 years. Not only for the sake of natural legality, but also for the investments made by hunting societies in and around forests, on footholds, on feeding grounds, on a pile of land that they have arranged so that the game can survive a severe winter so that it can be fed. To put it another way, I have witnessed many times how hunters, like campers, are certainly among the most effective and especially the most caring forest cleaners. What happens in the woods is discovered by hunters and campers. And it is they in mass action that ensure that wild landfills are removed. Thanks to them, in the congregation where I live, the number of wild landfills was reduced to almost nothing because we, along with them and the campers and other volunteers, were able to detect and clean up wild landfills. I wonder if the forest owners or if the forest owners will now, when they are returned in denationalisation procedures, care for cleanliness in their forests as hunters do. Looks like, at least after the events in Gorenjska, it's the other way around. Lubadar destroys forests and their owners do not see to it that they destroy or prevent their development, fall trees lie and scrape in the forest, and when they do the holocausts leave branches and other remains thick on the ground, so that the watercourses can be clogged and floods occur. I think that what we have experienced so far in managing denationalised forests will be a catastrophic experience if they are given hunting concessions in the forests by their owners, in particular those with very large forests. I therefore call on all those who wish to do well to our nature who wish to comply with the provisions of the Law on Forests and the Law on the Protection of the Environment, where it is very clear that forests have a social and health role first and only then an economic role, and that what is involved in hunting is part of this social and recreational role for the Slovenian population. So I have to say that I think it's a great deal of everything that we've come one step at a time that we've been through a long time. I hope she doesn't come back between us again. By the way, the Church had already disbanded Joseph II before France.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u128	Dear Mr. President, distinguished hunters, respected hunters. I am not going to support the amendment to Article 6 of the amended Law on the Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting. However, I have to say my disagreement with the adoption of this complementary proposal for a law on game and hunting, because my comments and comments by almost all the hunting families from the Slovenian Mountains and the wider part of Slovenia have been ignored both by the trainee and by the Hunting Union of Slovenia when it comes to hunting areas, i.e. Article 8 of the existing law setting out the hunting grounds. In order to avoid changing the limits of hunting grounds which do not reach this parameter, this complementary proposal of the law could also reach into Article 8 of the existing law and would be added in the first paragraph of this Article, for the word "be," for the word "be," for "rarely less than 2,000 hectares" and so on. This change would avoid conflicts and problems that occur and will happen around the limits set by concessions. Of course, I do not understand the Hunting Union of Slovenia that it did not listen here to the hunting families of the Slovenian Mountains and also took into account their opinions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u130	Respectable. The question of the two amendments is, in my opinion, related to one more crucial issue, what is the aim. Whether the country is intended for man and thus the owner of these lands, which is the most controversial part of this law and, consequently, the amendment which speaks of indirect management of these lands, whether people and landowners are destined for that country. I think that this law completely turns this basic logic upside down and actually retains the functional principle of social property. In doing so, of course, the Green Society is not guilty or responsible for this and of course represents a loving association which in this case deals with hunting and I do not have bad experience with it myself, except for some exceptions. However, I do not think it is acceptable for the State to grant animal management on behalf of owners, if I make this simplistic, and thus the infrastructure that is important for the existence of animals, and these are ownership land. Of course, it is illogical to forward what we have heard today and to take this even as an argument that the owner would do worse with his property than the country. I think that's an argument that can't be held back. And this argument is often argued today and advocates the law as it is. In fact, this law continues to prevent owners of these lands from managing their own property to the full. I, I must say, have thought to this day that nationalisation actually ended 50 years ago, but with such a law it continues to continue and in fact I am concerned when this Slovenia will mature for some normal democracy, some normal attitude towards owners and its citizens. I have never heard so many disqualifications and mistrusts about my own citizens, as I have heard today, and this is very unusual for a Parliament representing this people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, if I have seen correctly, with my fellow workers, colleagues, hunters and hunters. So you're not just a man on a visit to Parliament today. I already agree that denationalisation is a way of restoring property, and let us leave the debate to what extent, how much and what is justified. But returning ownership, returning forests does not mean that the owners will also become game owners in this area. This has absolutely nothing to do with it. Finally, we will hear that the law on denationalisation prescribes this. It's not true, and it's impossible to agree with that. If I define myself just until the proceedings, the Constitutional Court's decision will be almost a year, it will require amendments to the law. The government was waiting, the government was always so prepared for all the laws, just before the laborers, only the procedure was not put into place. Well, now we've got this law and now we've got this short notice because we have to hurry to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. However, in order not to revolve around this circle alone, we have added to the cases which the Constitutional Court has not requested at all and have not been identified and which are unnecessary attachments to the amendments to this law. Article 6 is also and in particular in this regard. The Constitutional Court did not mention that Article 6 should be amended, nor did it directly refer to the need to shorten the duration of the concession, which is in law. Such an inexorable monitoring of today's debate gives me some hope that the amendment might reach into this article's substance, while at the same time implying that the law could be as it is adopted. For me, of course, it is not enough just to amend Article 6 of the amendment to Article 6, but I believe that even if the amendment to Article 6 is adopted that this solution in this law, so the law as a whole, is not good and is not worthy of support. When we talk about distrust of people, at the same time we forget that we are also talking about distrust of hunters, about those who have been successfully engaged in this for several decades, and I hope that they will be so successful in the future. And when we say that the regime that is now in force is some kind of consequence of socialist regulation, where it has to be acknowledged that everything was not bad and that it was not necessary to turn everything upside down. But the decision was to change the system and we introduced a market economy. But the market economy is not a time of feudalism. With this law, you want to turn the circle back from socialism, and in certain other cases you want to move on. It's gonna be hard for this story to come out the way you're planning. And when we are talking about the wild and when I listened to the echoes yesterday, I will not repeat after Mr Saiovic, I myself was surprised at the statements, but more than surprised, saddened at the statements I could hear in this broadcast. That a wildling is no longer a savage until someone commits it or otherwise takes her life. Then it becomes the property of the one who owns the land. What do we tell the owners if, of course, this arrangement comes into force? All your efforts must be made to keep the wildlings where you own them, because only in this case will you receive monetary rewards or compensation. At the moment the game is over, it will become your property, and whoever did it will pay you compensation, that is, the owner. The wrong thing, and I'm sure it needs to be settled in such a way that caring for the wild will still be a priority. And many in recent years have also wanted to show hunters as just people who want to kill, people who want to end everything they have in front of them, to hang trophies wherever possible. But this was completely targeted, so the goal is to do things the way we picture them today or imagine them. I wish, and I am sure, that judgment in this House, even though I do not count on it as much as I have in the past, will prevent this intention of yours. I am convinced that it is necessary to reject the law and prepare in a very short time what the Constitutional Court requires of us. We now have stories that follow this State Assembly, which has become a voting machine, and we all hope in silence that the State Council will be more judgmental. However, if the Council of State is not more judgmental, we hope for a decision by the Constitutional Court. And we get decisions. [[...]] [[Mr. Sok, are you talking to yourself again or maybe with me?]] Yeah, good. The referendum is also a form that you used very successfully at the time when you were in the opposition and thus obtained votes for the election and victory in the elections. Now that you are at risk, the question is, of course, whether the referendum is good or not. I agree with you that you have concerns and I share your concerns. But you'll have to take care of it yourself, especially. I am confident or I hope that we will act responsibly in the National Assembly today and that we will accept these amendments, but, of course, in advance, I say that what I said in the introduction, that the amendment itself, the adoption of the amendment to this Article 6 does not yet mean that the law is worthy of the full support of voting in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u134	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, esteemed colleagues, guests in the hall and guests in the stands. In the debate on this amendment, I just have to predict that I will also move a little further away from all that this amendment is saying, which is very short and is extending the concession period to 20 years, which I think is a little bit. The land and its wealth, the so-called public wealth, we have more than just a pre-borrow, is a loan from our grandchildren and great-grandchildren. And as those who live in a very deep coexistence with nature say, every decision must be justified in the eyes of at least seven generations, which is 140 years, not 20 or 10. This decision today is about half a generation or a whole generation. Organisation and the will of Slovenian hunting are still proven to be successful and results. It's about volunteerism, it's about socializing, it's about an extremely respectful attitude towards nature, and of course, it's about 20 years ago, when the hunting was actually very much about cultivation. Today, there are few hunters who are shooting, but there are more who are only concerned with caring for these biotopes, and if they're shooting at anything, they're shooting more than they're shooting at cameras. When we say it's an economic activity, it's something else. If you look at the data on this, you'll see if all the costs that hunters have, all the hours of volunteering, but you'll spill into what comes from hunting, you'll see that it doesn't make any profit. It can be profitable and profitable only at a time when everything that changes the right to hunt and the right to nature changes. That is why I think it is right that this concession is held at the level of 20 years, above all I think it is appropriate that all those who have proved to be excellent as concessionaries, as dedicated ones, continue to be. I think it's important. As far as other matters related to the adoption of today's law are concerned, let me say that the Government has actually decided on something that I call a diversion of laws. He doesn't implement laws, he doesn't respect laws, and then he says that some things don't go, that laws are bad, and that they need to be changed. We've had some of these cases this week. For example, the road safety law, which we're talking about, it doesn't work well, they say, we're going to change it. We had a law on private protection. The government or the minister didn't do what he was supposed to do, and we're going to change it. This was the case with the Law on Offences, as was the case with the Law on Public Order and Peace. Today, of course, it's with a hunting law that the government doesn't implement and then says it needs to be changed. This is a mere abandonment of obligations that the Government should carry out, but not that it should continue on account of the fact that something does not know that something cannot, does not want, then changes. Therefore, all these laws, which we have been changing so much lately, must also be seen through this perspective. 10 minutes ago, the constitutional law on deleted has been published, so you know, again for the same reason, because the government isn't in order, it's going to go with a law that's ready, that's good, and I don't know what else, and it's complicated even more than complicated. On the other hand, we are surprised and say, we need to have confidence in ourselves and in our work and so on. In European comparison, the Slovenian legislature, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is the least trustworthy. Why? Because a purely congregational extension is raising the deadlines for something that is happening. It's a problem that isn't just about this marriage, it's about someone else. And then we're not surprised there's hunters on the bleachers. It will be very difficult if we have to have parliamentarians in the forest, but the game will be in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. So, once again, I would like to point out that in our Group of Members, we really want to find what is good in every law and to support what is good, so we also stress in this law that it is not completely in vain, but we are only alerting those two essential shortcomings, or bad solutions, which may be crucial for the continued existence of hunting, for our continued interaction with nature, and that we are therefore working so hard to adopt this supplement to Article 6 in such or other form. The more we listen to these discussions, the more we listen to all possible and impossible things that are or are not directly linked to hunting. Surely, in some cases, only holy forgiveness could be a comment. Just as I think it is really inappropriate, and given that Mr Sok was not in the hall before, to reiterate his colleague Bevik's call, that it would probably be good if Comrade Sok apologized to the hunters and the hunters on the stand, because we know that almost 70% of the hunters are also landowners and forest owners, and that probably this delegation present today is not just the 30% who do not have land and are farmers who are preparing the autumn work at home. So I think that such debates are certainly bad and that to the hunters who have done so much good for the Slovenian environment in this 100 years, to the Slovenian savages, we envy this to many from other countries when they see how rich we have savages and our environment, that they probably do not deserve such flat-rate reviews at the celebration of the 100th anniversary. We have also listened to strange discussions already on the parental committee, where some have had problems with understanding what natural coexistence is and that this is certainly not, as it was said at the time, that if 365 deer are driven, that it is the accommodation of a car of citizens and citizens and savages, that it is probably necessary for such a number of people in that congregation, and if it is Ormož, to find that it is likely that some natural route of the game has been cut off and that it is possible to take certain measures not to repeat it and to protect both the savages and the inhabitants. That is why we would like this law to be rectified by these amendments and to remain in this form for 20 years. For the end, I may just knock on the conscience of those parties or those of the parties who have the word Slovenia or Slovenian or Slovenian in their name. In fact, a lot of attention is given to the fact that in this law we also talk about things that are important for Slovenia, that through a black scenario that may never be realized, and after this dictatorship "up to 10 years" we can also in one or two years, that a very rich buyer from somewhere will appear and buy a significant part of the hunting grounds and how we will then justify these solutions that some obviously want to be taken into force today. Certainly, and in the group, we really do not want to participate in this and spend 100 years of what Slovenian hunters did 100 years ago with the creation of the first society, and what they have done together for 100 years in order to ensure and satisfy the logic of capital or individuals, they have adopted such a law as this one, which is certainly very bad in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Sok, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I'm really gonna apologize. If you look at the magnetogram, it writes something like this that I said that farmers and forest owners aren't here because they're at home because they're probably preparing their fields. Pika! And nothing more. I apologize for your insinuations and conjectures. Both Mr. Bevk and Mr. Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you. There's no replica to the replica. Well, you have not been quoted, Mr Bevk, but you will be able to apply for the debate. You obviously want to discuss Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. We continue the debate and the application is ongoing. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Given the really different opinions in this assembly, or 10 or 20 years of concession, I just don't think it's essential about the bill. But I'd like to say that I think we like to play with the term "concession." This is one of the typical cases. There's nothing better about health. But you know, if it means someone's going to give me a concession by having a doctor come to me and say, "I'm not going to work in a public office anymore, I want to be awarded a concession," then this is a little weird. Instead of adopting a concessional act by local communities or by the State, on the other hand, and laying down the conditions for the award of the concession, the conditions to be met by the concessionaire and the third in order to select the best or most favourable concessionaire. It's a concession for me. And in such cases, it is better to say before we grant the concession to go monopoly. It's said earlier, because actually the concessionaire dictates this pace rather than the concessionaire. But we know when we grant the concession to the concessionaire, that then he really gets the monopoly. And that doesn't bother me in this marriage. After all, I think the biggest problem here is that somehow there is no agreement or we do not want it between potential concessionaires or hunters and landowners. As mayor of one of the Slovenian municipalities, I would be more pleased if that part of the concession, which is intended for local communities, were indeed to be distributed somehow among land owners or those with a certain size, which would somehow be limited to those in which the owners would be entitled to a certain share. I think that would be one of the solutions. In the final stage, I don't know, as I started, I think it's hard to believe, you know, if you really wanted to tender a concession, but with hunting families, someone else could apply, say, to the forest owners, the question of if, indeed, after the professional salary, the ability or the competence to obtain this concession. Really harder, isn't it? But some satisfaction would certainly be for landowners to at least be involved, as my predecessors in our parliamentary group have already said, at least participate in this law. And that's not it. But I must also say that in my area, where I am the mayor, we work very well with the hunters. And I'm sure we'll do that in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Let me explain this little complication. When colleague Alojz Sok greeted the hunters at the gallery, he continued [[Quote]] "I will not praise you as some do before me, I will say what I mean. I can't imagine what it would look like if owners of agricultural land and forests came to this stage on this balcony, probably too small, but they were dealing with other things. They're probably preparing their fields for autumn seed... and so forth. [[advertising in the hall]] "and they don't have time." "And they don't have time," dots. And so on, "and they don't have time." I can do it again if you like, Mr. Sok. And the magnetogram of my performance hasn't been made yet. When it's done, I can read it to you, so then you'll know what I said because you weren't in the hall. Your statement implies a lot of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u143	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss Article 6? I am opening applications for the debate on Article 6 and the two amendments. Gentlemen, we have five more articles and a few more amendments. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because a lot of people in the hall are wondering what I have to say. Well, I've got something. Believe me, I also have some experience with these things. In particular, I would say that the amendment that prolongs the duration of the concessions is supported by me. Above all, I would say that much of the debate on this is, or certainly, necessary to say that I would not go to the debate about what a savage is. Is it really "really nullius", whether it's state property or whatever it is. Nevertheless, even if it is defined, for example, as it is, not hunting for wild animals, are defined in the law on conservation of nature as "res nullius" under the special care of the state. Even if it were defined as "res nullius", this certainly does not mean any further absurd claim, which is that if it is "resistible nullius", it is when the owner of a land falls. That's ridiculous, that's absurd. In Europe, such an arrangement is applied where, in an absolute period of history, landowners have come to absolute power and have succeeded to others, craftsmen, citizens and so forth, in exercising such a right, which has been retained in some form or another through all these modifications. I'll tell you myself from experience. We once worked very hard with Bavaria in the field of nature protection, nature protection. And there, Bavarian civil servants and politicians, who were conservatives, your example of New Slovenia, were always silently whispered to me, for God's sake, not to change hunting legislation. We'd put it right in if we could. If any tradition were to introduce this, such or otherwise, they would introduce large fisheries, establish the primacy of public interest, put hunting no longer into function, I don't know, killing animals, but into the function of preserving the natural environment and so on. We'd do it if we could. We create this arrangement, as it was created, instead of modifying it, as much as we need to modify it, we would eliminate it for these ideological reasons. It is not true, colleagues, that there are no public regimes on public or private land. The Slovenian Constitution explicitly allows this, and the Slovenian legislation I know explicitly allows this. However, if this does not exist, it is your car, a private car, but you must not do whatever you want with it, but for your property the legislator tells you that after five years you must bring it to a technical inspection, register it and you cannot start with your property whatever you like. Property legal relations are secured by law, not by willful possession of property in one way or another. Remember. And after all, in many Slovenian provinces we say to the forest, how? It's either a guest or a big one. That's great. Give it to those of you who know German. Tell me where it's coming from. [[Gemein - community, Gemeinshaft - community]] . This shows that there were once some fruits, and they are today, at least for some time, some fruits, although they can also be on private property, own a community: from mushrooms, blueberries and the regime of hunting and game. So don't tell me this absurd, tight and tightly owned legal concept that doesn't apply. And right now, without thinking about it, we are changing something, but in the way that you're doing it, it's unnecessary to change. At least I am worried about the ten-year duration of the concession, because now and here I say, after 2008, when we have an impact on the Government, if this is so accepted, this article and others will be rescinded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u145	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 6 and the amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] We then turn to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment of the LDS and Res. Anybody want to talk? I can see the hand. I'm opening the application. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Article 7 refers to how to settle matters after we redistribute concessions. And this must be taken into account all other than exclusive ownership of the land. That is why I support this amendment to Article 7 because, in some articles, it corrects a completely flawed law. Before that, there was a lot of talk about who should get the concession. After the concession period, the concessional period should be given to those who have the best control over the business, have all the material possibilities to do so and have proved to be a good operator by now. Why is it necessary to carry out hunting? A certain number of hunters are required to carry out hunting operations, a certain number of browsers are required and certain equipment and techniques are needed. Those hunting families that have multiple blood fields, those hunting families that have multiple arranged puddles, the draw for little game, they should have advantages, not just landowners. Before an interesting question opened, my mayor's colleague Mikolić said how to give something to landowners as well. I agree with that, and I'll tell you how. They should simply deduct a certain proportion of the assets in the cadastral income from the area of private ownership allocated to the common land. Whoever puts more in the hunt will have more, less, but less. And all this stuff can be solved with taxes and cadastral income. Even those European countries that have this compensation for hunting included have a flat per hectare, then adequate bonitisation and it is easy to hold this issue back. Otherwise, many abuses and machinations are possible to have a preferred right to landowners. Today, only three members of landowners can establish a hunting family and a hunting society under our law. And then these three will have all the priority rights. However, it is probably interesting from the time before the new Minister arrived, at the Ministry there is a regulation on the granting of concessions for the sustainable management of game in the hunting grounds of the Republic of Slovenia. Take a look at this regulation and you will see that the regulation that is written down bears the already signed President of the Government simply not to defend what you say in your daily statements.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If we adopt Article 6, as foretold, especially if there is discipline and assistance from the coalition in the opposition, then we have resolved much: concessions for 20 years. I'm not going back and I'm trying to be inside the articles that are currently on the agenda. In choosing the concessionaire, where the disputed solution in the proposal for amendments to the law is, and we have already found that in some and other fellow Members of the opposition and the coalition, it would be wise to accept this amendment, which is before us and by the third reading, perhaps this proposal has come to pass. I will admit that one part of the government's proposal in the forecast statement is good because it remedys the Constitutional Court's decision. Under the same conditions concessions must be awarded and so on. And this forecast line says, at the first hand. The first award means that if we accept the amendment to Article 6, it is 20 years. During this time there will be no more here, 7 governments will be replaced, and so on, and there will be a story God knows where. The following might indicate if this text, proposed by the LDS Club, is not entirely acceptable, to be completed in the third reading. This is the whole story of this Article and the amendment to this Article. If, as announced by the coalition colleagues, this matter could be completed, and I think that paragraphs 6 and 7 are the most important, it would suggest that we seek a solution in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u149	Thank you. There's an interest after the debate. I am reopening my application for debate on Article 7 and the amendment to this Article. Check-in is on. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We are very rational in our group, so I won't waste any time. Since this has complemented the LDS and the Group of Members in general, I fully agree with what colleagues Sayovic and Geza Juban have said, so I propose that it be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Look, I think sometimes you forget a little about what we've been taking or what you've proposed and what solutions we've written in the marriage. It is undeniable that the Constitutional Court has ruled that in Article 26, the right of priority in the second division is not consistent with the Constitution in terms of equality before the law. This literally means that the first paragraph of Article 26 was repealed. And this is what the legislator wrote in Article 7 of the Act, where it is written, quote: 'Article 26 deletes the first point, the present second and third points become the first and second points'. The order or content of the one which is the second candidate for the concession and the third candidate for the concession was recorded in the basic law in 2004. The author was, you know, Mr. Anderlich with the consent of everyone who sits up here on the balcony. This needs to be said clearly and loudly. Whether this is most appropriate or not is also questionable. But I'm going to ask you now: Why the hell are you afraid of hunters who own land at the same time, why are you afraid of hunters who have a permanent residence in the hunting grounds? Give me one reason for this, given the claims I hear that 70% of the members of hunting families are also owners of land and "local people" at the same time, if I say so. All of a sudden, there's this fear of these people. In fact, once again, I stress that we have written this provision in the 2004 law and confirmed it by adopting the law on 20 May. All of a sudden you're working out of this indescribable circus, talking about the feudalization of hunting, and I don't know what else. If it's not a daily adjustment policy, then there's nothing. Once again, I ask all of you, who are involved in this debate, what is wrong with local hunters, what is wrong with hunters who own land. Let us say out loud, they are not wanted in hunting families, and it is the intention of the hunting families in the countryside to be taken over by some imaginary members who are coming, I don't know, from Ljubljana or from regional centres. Otherwise, it's impossible to explain everything to each other. Once again, in the 40s, 50s, when hunting families were made up of most of the farmers as landowners, there were significantly fewer conflicts and it was easier to manage conflicts than during the 1970s and 1980s, when these farmers were replaced by political ones, you can also call it local bourgeoisie, which then worked its order in the woods. Once again, this has changed after independence, turned to better, but not everywhere. Not everywhere. And if the purpose of the legislator of today's bill - the law of three years ago was to favour owners and local hunters - I do not know what has changed in these three years, that the written position is no longer right, Mr Anderlič, that it is no longer right! Suddenly, what you declared sacred in 2004 is no longer right! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u153	Thank you. I see you still have a desire to discuss Article 7. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you. In this priority order as set out in the law, no one speaks of the lack of interest, that landowners are in hunting organisations and that this is also one of the criteria for how to prioritise the award of concessions after the end of the first concession. However, I think this issue needs to be cleaned up, analysed from all angles, because here is also a dilemma that can - and actually there are also societies that have 1, 2, 3 members, and want to gain the right to manage hunting, but of course they do not even have the infrastructure, nor the other conditions necessary to do so. If only this owner criterion remains, then let's rule out what hunting organisations or hunting families have so far. And it is unfair for existing hunting families to prevent them from obtaining concessions after the first concession has expired. This issue needs to be effectively cleared and deepened and taken into account the situations that are actually present in this area. It is significantly closer to the amendment tabled by colleagues from the LDS and Really to take into account somehow the professional, human and material conditions that must be met by those who apply for such an invitation to tender. Of course, it is a somewhat open question of the conditions that the Government or the Ministry would then define in a sub-legislative act. I think that this text should be further refined here, but in any case it draws closer to the interest that we do not exclude the former hunting families, that they simply cannot reach the concession after the first concession has expired. And I don't think that's the purpose of any marriage, because it's just some experience, equipment and stuff, and everything you need to be able to maintain, not least, a balance in nature. There is thus a need for more effort to be put into this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you very much. At the beginning of the discussion, my fellow Sušnik, I was sure that we would seem to have dealt very quickly and that he had started well and that we would probably come up with the text that most of us are talking about that should have been. I say myself that if we take to Article 6 of the 20-year solution, and I have acknowledged or stressed that the forecast sentence of Article 7 of the government proposal, which speaks of being inserted in the "first award", the word "first" which clears the Constitutional Court's decision, we have a case in this part resolved that everyone is under the same conditions and is being followed. Your proposal, however, is that so far, the hunters' organisations have been eliminated, but 20 years later. In this respect, this amendment, which is the LDS amendment, should be adopted so that any concerns which are in the direction of incorrect text may be rectified in the third reading; and nothing else. Speaking out loud, who's in love, who's in love, who's in love, who's in the party, who hasn't been in, that's bullshit to me. I guess I didn't get involved in any of this. In this respect, this amendment should be adopted and a compromise text should be adopted, which will be in place in 20 years. By then, I told you, there will probably be almost no more in this hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u158	Mr Sušnik, there is nothing wrong with what is said in Article 26, but by deleting paragraph 1 from the first paragraph, you are fully revalued in Article 26. And that would be, if I hadn't answered, a completely wrong performance in public. It is simply that we wrote this down at the time because we have jointly assessed that the hunting relationship with our families is doing things in the public interest and so we have also written in the law that it is useful for nature, for the environment, for the end of the day this Slovenian society, for this Slovenian country. We said we wouldn't figure out what's going on with the property. Because it's also about that every hunting family has property, homes, refrigerators, I don't know what, etc., and if we just went to find out what 70% or 80% of the owners of the family are also members of the family, and by this criterion, for example, we could allocate concessions to 80% and 20% would probably negotiate - what now? Others are members of this family. To solve this, we had no idea. There'd probably be a lot of complications. And also, since there is a general principle, the constitutional principle of the right to unification - here we have with Mr Beast an eternal discussion, he would also, in his field in the sphere of civil society, regulate everything by law and the state would manage it if this civil society were mature enough and could manage it again. Because this is membership, if I like being a member of the hunting family in Tolmin, for example, and they accept me on the principle of voluntary association, then I can probably be there. The Society Act, which in this case is still over the Wildlife and Hunting Act, when it comes to integration, integration, the exercise of active and passive rights in this case and would then have a series of additional issues. However, since the Constitutional Court's decision unequivocally states that when it comes to the granting of concessions later, there is no reasonable reason for the priority right of hunting organisations, it means that we should do the first for this period, as has been said. At that time, let things develop as they will, and I don't mind that in the second row it will be overrated.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you all for this in-depth and long debate. So to this article and perhaps to the sixth at the end of the discussion a few more words. The present law states that the priority of the selection of the concessionaire is to take into account the following order: the hunting organisation which, until the invitation to tender for this law, has been professionally managed by hunting; the hunting organisation under point 2 of which most of the members are land and forest owners in the hunting zone or whose majority of the members have a permanent residence in the hunting zone. And three: a hunting organisation that borders the hunting grounds of the current operator. By a decision of 9.11.2006, the Constitutional Court has said this, so we understand that Article 26 of the Law on Wildlife and Hunting is inconsistent with the Constitution, since it does not limit the duration of the priority right of former operators to obtain a concession for the sustainable management of game to the procedure for the first award of the concession after the law has been implemented. And the Constitutional Court said in explanation, quote: "The legislator provided, by regulation of Article 1, paragraph 26, for the transition of existing concessional rights to a new legal regime and by prioritizing the right to the previous owners of the hunting grounds, for the protection of acquired rights, but the legislator did not limit the right to obtain a sustainable wildlife management concession to the time of transition to a new legal regime. The legislator has also set a priority right for existing game operators in all further procedures for granting a concession for the sustainable management of game. The priority right is not limited only to a transitional period during which the previous operators of the fisheries sector are to prepare and reorganise for a new regime with a view to protecting against interference with acquired rights." The Constitutional Court then says: "When it comes to the granting of concessions later, there is no reasonable reason for the priority of the hunting organisations referred to in Article 26, paragraph 1. Since the legislator did not limit the duration of the priority right of the previous operators of the hunting grounds in obtaining the concession to the first award procedure, for no reasonable reason put in an unequal position other entities which could participate in the call for further concession procedures..." - and so on. And we understand, and this is also based on the explanation given by the Constitutional Court when it came to the law on environmental and forest protection: "The hunting family, whose majority of the members are owners of land and forests in the area of fisheries or whose majority of the members have permanent residence in the area, has priority in obtaining concessions in relation to other hunting families, except in the first award procedure, where the hunting organisation which manages hunting is preferred to the public tender." In our view, we have taken this proposal into account by deleting paragraph 26 of Article 1 of the Constitutional Court decision and have taken into account, in essence, the current law or its priority order. In fact, we do not exclude hunting families that are already active in this area and where, as they themselves find out, they are also mostly owners of land and forests. And we think that we have tried at least the right way to address this difficult subject. And I hope that by quoting these articles and explaining this, I have also properly explained it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it, so I'm reopening the application circuit. Please. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u162	Minister, answer me, what's with the first assignment? By this provision, when you delete the first point, nowhere else is there clearly specified that you will take into account what you have just explained in the first award. As will be amended by Article 26, it will then be possible in the first award of the concession - I will not say abuse or anything else - a different explanation. I would like it to be indisputably recorded in the article that the first award is as set out in Article 1 in the first paragraph, because point 1 is written precisely because it will indisputably move forward. If this point is deleted, then it is no longer there. Hereafter - I understand the Constitutional Court's decision, and we both read the same - that in the future, everyone is equal and someone else is involved. In the first award, if it meets the conditions, those who have managed it so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u163	You want an explanation, Mr. Secretary? You still have a bad minute at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Well, I can answer your question. I think we've been trying to handle this properly. 26.a Article 26a of the amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting states: "In the first award of the concession [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the second paragraph of Article 24 of the Act after the application of this Act shall take into account the following priority order. [[...]] First, a hunting organisation which, in accordance with the rules and plans, has managed hunting appropriately until the invitation to tender referred to in Article 24, second paragraph of this Law." I think that's the right answer. That's the organization that did the hunting properly. That's what Article 26a says, I think that's a satisfactory answer. And then the second and the third [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] point - continuation as in the existing one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u166	Yeah, look in article 26a you have a concessional act. And what should be the basis for granting a concession for the sustainable management of game in hunting - is a concession act issued by the government and so on. That's paragraph 26a. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, well, I'm talking about the novel. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u167	Mr. Anderlich, thank you very much. Your honor, you don't have a word. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you very much. That's a nice greeting from me. Let me first say that I think that this is the preferred right to grant concessions in the new law. In fact, I have a feeling here that some [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u169	Mr. Jerovšek. Mr. Bajc, this is not your place. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u170	In fact, I have a feeling that, despite the clear instructions of the Constitutional Court, some would do anything to ensure that permanent priority is maintained. Just like it's concrete and also divided in some way. Look, if it comes from the fact that one of the main tasks of hunting is to maintain balance in nature, nature conservation behaviour and so on, it is necessary to say that it is a farmer, as I once said today, that it is in fact the most deserving of this and the best environmentalist and naturekeeper, and it has been through the centuries. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u171	Mr Jerovšek, no one listens to you, so I will ask you to be interrupted a little. You will continue and I will give you my word, only, honourable fellow Members, if you have anything to agree on, please go out and make an agreement, in the Chamber - no! Especially when your fellow Member speaks. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek. Please, Mr Jerovšek, continue. [[...]] [[Advertising from the hall - procedural.]] He'll say it all the time, and then you'll say it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, on this side, when it comes to procedure, discipline in the hall is not respected. That's right. Once again, Slovenian farmer has proved to be the best environmentalist, naturekeeper over the centuries, and has also preserved Slovenian nature, forests and landscape in such a form that it is also sown with savagery, if I say so. As a result, it does not seem logical that this would not be a natural interest, nor the natural interest of hunting organisations, in order for their society to have as many farmers as possible. This would also result in a priority right. For see, this has proved to be of utmost importance in history. As I said, the farmer is the best soldier, the custodian of the territory, and this is important for strategic reasons for the country. And I must say in the past we already have bitter experience with some parts of the hunting organisation before World War II, where foreigners came from the cities, this was with us in Styria, and they made them an element of Germanism. Before World War II, unfortunately, some hunting organisations were also abused for propaganda and Germanism; unfortunately, that was the case. But here I think he's trying to defend the interest of the so-called "hunting barons". They also usually come from environments that are not entirely indigenous there and have special interests. In fact, in some hunting organisations it is quite a strong division into queens, bees and workers if I use the parable from beekeeping. And many of these hunters, who are then used to sign everything, are primarily designed to be so - called workers within these societies. I think that with this, as the Government has written here, the possibility of actually reaching those indigenous interests that are present at a specific location and are important. That even through hunting, the interest will remain that their first task will be to maintain balance in nature and that hunters will also contribute to this permanent organization, which will keep watch over Slovenian territory, which will be the best guard in this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc, you want procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Maybe a little apology for my trip. I think my place is anywhere in this room, and I can't interfere with the work of the National Assembly as long as I have a mandate; when I don't have one, I probably won't. Secondly, what I'd like to say is why a procedural proposal - because of the confusion we got in the material. I hope that you colleagues, those who have tried to follow the debate, have found that, in the article we are now talking about and in the amendment to Article 7 to add Article 26a, we then have in the transitional and final provisions as the last article of Article 26a again. Let us agree on how many articles 26a can have a proposal for a new law. Maybe then there would be a lot of debate about who gets the concession again, and I'll say, in the second round, when the concessions are distributed, it's probably smaller or avoided. That is why my procedural proposal, Mr Vice-President, is that you give the Ministry's representatives the floor to explain this once again how this numbering is; they probably also have a proposal for renumbering the articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm giving you ten minutes of rest to get things together and get to where the mistake is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u176	Dear Members and Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting. Regarding the interruption, I would like to inform you of the following: I have been told that there has indeed been the same markings of documents both in the novel and in the proposals, but that there is nothing substantively wrong. When it's all voted out and it's all over, there's gonna be some sort of cleanup that's gonna fix all this, so there's not gonna be double numbers. So, warranty: content all right. This mistake has indeed occurred, but this error in the record will be corrected. I hope that you are satisfied with the explanation and that we continue with the debate. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The amendment to Article 7 makes much more sense and significantly better defines the conditions under which the second concession is granted, if we may say so, because the 26th Article adopted by the Committee as an amendment to Article 26 essentially introduces a priority right or right to grant the first concession to a hunting family that has already operated the hunt. So, next time after 20 years, I hope that this will be the case, it will be necessary to decide on the basis of other criteria, who is the organisation that is qualified so highly that it will really take good care of fisheries management. The amendment of the Liberal Democracy here, in my humble opinion and knowledge of the subject, is certainly significantly better than the deletion of the first point in Article 26, which simply eliminates the right or right of the former fisheries manager to obtain a new second concession. For this reason, I believe that the text, "the criterion in the selection of the concessionaire: meeting the professional, human and material conditions that ensure the realization of public interest in sustainable wildlife management. The conditions shall be laid down by a concession act referred to in Article 26a of this Law. In the event that several hunting organisations meet the conditions, the concession shall be awarded to a hunting organisation which provides better conditions for the realization of public interest in the sustainable management of game." And now I, like some other colleagues here in our parliamentary group, many in Slovenia compare with orthodox communists, can say that in the case of an ex-Fevdale, the current denationalising beneficiary, who will have thousands of hectares or have thousands of hectares of forests back in his possession, and if he meets all these conditions, he will be better than the hunting family that managed the hunting ground in his territory by then - let him have the concession, but he must meet these conditions! By deleting the first point of this article, however, simply throwing yourself out of the profession, knowledge, tradition, skills of the hunting family, and saying that that group of people where there is a larger proportion - watch out, a larger proportion - no larger number of landowners in the hunting area, please, if we can talk about the right way to grant a concession, we have shot completely through here. I do not think any of these owners will be qualified enough to compete with the hunting family, especially in 20 years when the hunting family will be strengthened with a whole range of other young experts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr Borut Saiovic, I would like to say one more thing. I would have adjusted my previous statement. By saying that it was a mistake, it was actually a normal technical procedure in the preparation of documents, where two documents have the same marking. In the final edition, this is corrected, the content is the same. I hope you accept that. You have heard my explanation, whoever accepts it will accept it, whoever does not accept it will not. Thank you. Mr. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you very much. See, the only important thing about granting a second concession is that the concession is awarded to a hunting organisation that provides better conditions for achieving public interest in sustainable wildlife management. With us, we can now establish a hunting family of three who own land. The hunting family already exists and has 60 members, 30 are landowners and 30 are not. And in this case, the three of us will always have the advantage and we will be chosen as concessionaries. Unfortunately, this is not a public interest. At a time when we will grant a second concession after 20 years, the situation must be equal, and the choice should be given to those who have better professional, human and technical options, not to those who have more land and more money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u180	Mr. Franz Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you very much. After we have clarified that the first award of concessions is indisputable, and as we all know together, we do not establish hunting grounds that have a surface area of 100 hectares, even this issue has been addressed to me. This shows how important and warm this atmosphere and the question that relates to the law on game and hunting. I would like to say something else in favour of section 7 of the bill. Look, it's about ensuring public interest. That's what my forerunner said. Public interest, some of you are telling us that we are locals, equal to local interest. I don't think there's anything wrong here. And God forbid you give the chancellor a concession to such a hunting family that would not be a disaster to a local environment that would not be a disaster for landowners and local hunters. I am convinced that such an implementation of such a concession is doomed to failure. Such hunters could not even reach those extreme limits of the hunt. Believe me, that's the way it is. It is therefore necessary to state once again: the concession act which publishes the tender for the award of the concession contains all the conditions that the concessionaire must fulfil in order to ensure the management of the game in accordance with the legislation and guidelines that the profession pursues. On the other hand, it must also be said that it is right to write in the law that it is for the public or if you want local interest that the concessionaire is the one who fulfils the condition that the maximum number of local residents or the maximum number of landowners is included in this hunting family. I think that there is nothing wrong here, nothing wrong, and that this is the fundamental principle in which the hunting family must operate; if the hunting family does not cooperate with landowners, it does not cooperate with citizens, it cannot carry out hunting and breeding tasks, under no circumstances is that possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I'm opening another round of reports. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u183	I understand there's been a mistake, but if you'll excuse her, you won't! But that's just manners. It is entirely contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court that we regulate Article 7. It is that the justification says - now I have read it again - that there is no reason for further award of concessions to have priority. By deleting the first point in this article, you have made a priority order in the second division. But the Constitutional Court says: no, for the first time, make a priority order; for the second, they must all be the same. And only by deleting Article 26 in full and in the transitional provision with Article 26a shall you determine who has the advantage in the first division. This is quite correct, for the 26th article, which is in the consolidated text of the Committee on Agriculture, speaks of the concessional act and says, "the basis for the award of the concession" and so on, let us make it a transitional amendment which we have made - we can redefine it in the third reading or later, stress that someone has to meet the criteria that he must fulfil the public interest on the basis of everything and so on - and in article 26a or article 8 of the amended law, do what must be included in the concession act. And that's all. For if we remain in the first paragraph of Article 7 or 26 in the purified text of Article 7, you have made the second award of concessions a priority order that is more favourable to you. That's all. And in this context, this priority order of these existing families will not come into line. At least what we could do to blur out a little bit more about what you were going to do about it, would simply say, as a third or fourth point in the amended article 26, and those families that, say, took precedence in the first division. And you didn't even do it. I really appeal to you to respect the Constitutional Court's decision, which states explicitly: in the first division - the advantage of those who are now, and in the second - none of the advantages, all under the same conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Yes, please. Anyone else please? We're talking about Article 7. If no one else, Mr. Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Maybe it's a solution to this complication, if we've already got an explanation of how it happened and I'm sure we all really want what's going on with the content. I have also heard very well from my fellow Sušnik that he also has an interest that those who have been so well cared for have the same opportunities. Therefore, I propose that if this amendment is adopted in the proposed form, this ensures that we all feel the same and that we will be able to carry out the matter perfectly further, but if this amendment - or the LDS and Really - is not accepted, it will be true that something else has obviously been envisaged in this order, which is certainly not good. If this proposal or supplement is confirmed, we will all sleep peacefully and always look forward to the continuation of the procedure in our heart and soul, but if it is rejected, it will remain this fear that it is a choice that is prepared for someone else in the next assignment, and we will always find that it would be very bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you very much. If no one wants to discuss this article again, I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 9 and the two amendments of the SD Group of Members and the amendments of LDS and Res. Check-in is on. Mr. Borut Saiovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Article 9 refers to a concessional duty. The interest of farmers, companies in the first place, and hunters in the second is that there is no harm. Therefore, the prevention of damage and the means involved in preventing damage should be stimulated. Not to eliminate harm when it is an accident, but to stimulate hunting families to invest more and less in preventing harm and greater satisfaction for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna add a little something to that. There is a lot of talk about income sharing and again this money is so little that it is not worth talking about - in the whole country it will gather very little - and these divisions are exaggerated to 25:75%. It would be best if we didn't make the circus come from hunting in Slovenia. One blonde will earn more at the ROLE2 equipment than all these revenues from hunting in Slovenia. Otherwise, under the red numbers, all I'm going to say is that my SD amendment is a little bit better than our amendment, which is more specific about the damage caused by the wild.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Look, I think the purpose of this amendment is completely flawed by the sound logic and sound practice that hunters should be applying. I'm asking if we want all our meadows to be warmed up, all the edges of the woods - what's it gonna look like? To this end, it literally introduces such a calculation of the concession fee, where hunters in such a way as to avoid the payment of the duty would put so much more into the measures to prevent damage. That's not the point. I think that with annual breeding plans, similar breeding plans, such a stock of game should be provided so that with the appropriate planned shooting and the execution of the shell - because sometimes we also revolve around the institution planning something, and then the shooting is also shaped by various internal rules of hunting societies - that the game will cause minimal damage to the environment that it is. In particular, I come from the area because it's a terrible problem with damage to wild pigs. Tens of hectares of astrins in areas that are stimulated and promoted by the state and the municipality with various measures to preserve agriculture are now scattered, while hunters try to justify their obligation to recover damage by having farmers protected or fenced those meadows. That's not working. That is why I think that the purpose of this amendment is also flawed and I do not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Check-in is on. Mr. Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. No one wants to discuss it with me or anything. I'm a little confused by this argument, or I don't understand its logic, because if this amendment were to be adopted, the fence would be happening and so on. Just the opposite! The fact is that the calculation of the concession must be based on some tangible benefits that this hunting family or fisheries management has and must also take into account some of the damage and costs it has in doing so. And if this is taken into account, then we will have a regime as prescribed by other documents of hunting, but if not, it will have to reduce the damage precisely by what has been said; it will be by blocking, by violently reducing any damage and so on, because it will be its net cost, yet it will have to pay the concession. So if we want to avoid obstruction, which is certainly what we are agreeing with our fellow Sušnik, then this amendment needs to be exactly supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 9 and put to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the LDS and Res. I see that no one wants to discuss this, so I am closing the debate and putting Article 18 and the SD Group amendment into the debate. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the SDS, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. I find that no one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided today, as part of the vote in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, at 4:20 p.m. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u195	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on amendments to the forest law, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 33. We're voting. There were 66 votes in favour and 56 in favour against 9. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 36. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted for 59 against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 48. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 48 against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the Council adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted for 61, against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. Mr. Tanko, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today, in the National Assembly, we listened to a very gruesome debate, which, although to a very small extent, referred to what was imposed by the Constitutional Court and which is also the proposal of this law. I propose that, in order to clarify certain things that may remain inconclusive or open, the vote on the amendments be postponed to one of the following meetings, in order to try to reach out to all of them at that time, or to determine what the actual issues are, and that the actual problems would then possibly be tried on the basis of, say, the amended amendments, the amended amendments, the law in the third reading, so that it would be acceptable for the majority in this Assembly and also for the public concerned, the forest owners and the rest. In short, I propose that, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, we postpone the vote on the amendments to one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-10-30-SDZ4-Redna-32.ana.u197	Your procedural proposal was to postpone the decision on the amendments to one of the following meetings. Right? I'm putting the motion to a vote. There are 75 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 18. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and conclude the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Good night!
