ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning. Dear colleagues. I begin with the continuation of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that the following Members are unable to attend today's meeting: colleague Feri Horvat, Jože Horvat, Ivan Jelen and Villa Rezman. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 6. DOCTOR, IT'S ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A VIOLENCE PREVENTION LAW IN THE FAMILY, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. I inform you that we have 5 hours and 25 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With us is Mrs Marjetka Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who will also have the first word. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members and Members. The law on the prevention of domestic violence is the first law in the Slovenian space, which clearly defines the different kinds of violence in the family. The long-awaited bill sets out the role, tasks, network and participation of various state authorities and NGOs in addressing domestic violence and not least defines measures to protect the victim of domestic violence. Each victim will then have the right to accompany and the right to free legal aid. Children who are the most vulnerable social group will be the most insured in addition to the disabled, the elderly and those with special needs. The law also stipulates that the child is a victim even if he is present in the exercise of violence against other family members. In addition, anyone who suspects a child is a victim of violence will have to report it to the Centre for Social Work, the Police or the Prosecutor's Office, even though he is bound by professional secrecy. The law also introduces a special prohibition against the exposure of children to mass media in cases of domestic violence, which is of great importance as we are obliged to protect the child from unnecessary resurgence of violence, exposure to media pressures and stigmatisation in society. The law, however, does not focus solely on the victim, but also on the perpetrator of violence, who, like the victim, needs professional help to change behavioral patterns. On a proposal from the victim, the violent court will be able to prohibit the entry into a common apartment and leave it exclusively to use the victim if necessary. This emphasis is an important novelty with a key message that there is no longer victims of the one who has to withdraw from the apartment and go to a safe house, a mother's home, but will then have to withdraw the cause of violence. Social work centres are required by this law to start keeping their own records of domestic violence, so that they can act in a timely manner and protect everyone who needs it. So far, this type of record has been kept by the police. At the same time, the law provides for regular professional education for all those dealing with the problem of violence and prescribes a multidisciplinary approach to dealing with the victim, which has proved to be very appropriate and effective in the European area. The law does not impose penalties, which is its advantage. It brings Slovenia closer to modern democratic countries, which attach great importance to fundamental human rights. The penalties remain laid down in the Penal Code, which is being amended by the Ministry of Justice at this time and also provides for stricter penalties for offenders. By adopting this law, you will give the Slovenes and the Slovenes two clear messages. First, that no form of violence is acceptable in the Slovenian space; and secondly, that the family as the most important cell of society first deserves the law, which it will protect against the violence behind the four walls, of which no one knows except the suffering. The bill before you, honourable Members and Members, thus focuses on the wider area of civil law and the functioning of social services, which can solve the problems of victims of violence in the long term, thus creating a novelty in the European area, because it focuses on the out-of-house area and gives a great deal of emphasis to the protection of victims of violence. Your Honor! Our joint efforts must be built up to ensure that we are all responsible for the society in which we live and that we offer assistance to all who wish to step out of the circle of violence. The law before you can't solve the problem overnight. Our young generation is obliged to learn that the rights of one person are limited to the rights of another and, above all, we are increasingly forgetting that our children do not listen to us, but imitate us in their actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say hello to Madam Minister with the team and you, colleagues and colleagues! Well, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family and Social Affairs dealt with the law in question at its 18th emergency meeting on 30.11. this year. Ms Marjetko Cotman, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Ombudsman, representatives of the State Council, representatives of the Community of Centres for Social Work and representatives of NGOs participated in the work of the Committee. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, as well as the legislative and technical aspects, and has commented on a number of articles. Part of those comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the four coalition groups and part of those comments was also tabled in the Committee's amendments. In its opinion, the Commission supported the bill for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, and proposed to the Committee to adopt amendments that would follow the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service and the proposals of NGOs. The amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, the Liberal Democracy Chamber, the Zares Group, Ambassadors Maja Shirca and Barbara Žgajner Tavš, and the Coalition's Group of Members. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly presented a written opinion and said that the opinion was aimed at greater efficiency and legal adequacy. In doing so, she drew attention to a number of comments that had not been taken into account in the amendments tabled, and the Committee further took them more closely in its amendments. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the members of the committee, with the active participation of representatives of NGOs, paid the highest attention to the provisions of Articles 1, 6, 8, 10, 11, 14 and 28. The debate took place with regard to the definition of domestic violence and the prevention of domestic violence, where it would be necessary to include protection and assistance measures in the light of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The amendment of the Committee was proposed, which was also accepted by the members of the Committee. Further discussion was also held on the duty to report to authorities and organisations and NGOs who, in their work, can or may conclude that violence is being committed and the victim expressly opposes the application. Some discussers felt that they should not allow discretion in informing the competent institutions of cases of domestic violence, as this would actually socialise the tolerance and passivity to domestic violence. The representatives of the proposer stressed, however, that victims should be allowed to make their own decisions, or that such discretion is not the case if they are suspected of a crime or if they are victims of child violence. Further discussion also raised the issue of the right of victims to advocate, the role of bodies and organisations and NGOs and the tasks of social work centres. The panellists' attention was also focused on the composition and functioning of the multidisciplinary team, which is a consultative body or working method and which includes experts from different fields. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to Article 10a, Article 10b and Article 10c of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy and to Article 31a of the amendment to Article 5 and the amendments to the four coalition groups. The Committee also adopted its amendments on the basis of the debate on Articles 1, 11, 18, 23 and 32. Everything that has been adopted at the examination of the law on the home labour body is incorporated into the complementary draft law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In opening, let me say that the Group of Social Democrats will support the bill. In particular, we are pleased to note that this is one of those laws where it has also been possible to adopt something on the home labour body and has been improved in this way, and it is particularly good that these proposals have followed the proposals of NGOs. One of the most widespread violations of human rights, violence in the family, remained long concealed and suppressed between the four walls, so it is not surprising that it has been poorly explored. Empirical research has only been carried out since the 1970s and, for our determination to this negative social phenomenon and to realize the responsibility that society has in preventing domestic violence, it is important to conclude that, without the intervention of state and other institutions, violence in a large part of families will eventually escalate to all worse forms. One of the frequently cited estimates says that 32% of women will be victims of domestic violence without effective intervention in a short time again. As studies have shown, the prevalence of the phenomenon - after one of them, 1 in 4 to 5 women in the European Union should have the experience of violence caused by a partner - has matured knowledge not only of violence as a violation of human rights but also of the economic and other consequences of violence for individuals and society as a whole. It is also indicated that in 90 to 97% of all cases of domestic violence are male or female. Let me also point out that the end of the partnership is not necessarily the end of violence at the same time. For many years, social democrats have been trying to show violence between the four walls as a general social problem, especially because those who have witnessed domestic violence are often later the perpetrators of violence themselves, as established behavioural patterns are being transmitted. And so the family is not the most secure environment in which each individual will find sufficient support and security. That is why we have not only supported but also encouraged the amendment of legislation since 1999, when legislation has criminalized domestic violence as well, and in particular I am reminding you of the anti-approach measure. In 2004, this effort was concluded with a comprehensive consultation on the prevention of domestic violence and the written legal texts, which unfortunately was not upgraded with appropriate amendments in 2005. At the hearing of the Special Ombudsman's Report on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, Parliament adopted a decision specifically referring to domestic violence as a reflection of the wider social situation and as a serious social problem, which can only be addressed comprehensively at national level. Unfortunately, it is only this year that we are adopting a law on this subject. I would like to point out that we see a particular problem with the fact that data on violence in the domestic environment and in partnership relations in Slovenia are not being monitored in a coordinated and systematic manner, that there is a lack of more in-depth analysis or research on the extent of the occurrence and forms of violence in the family, that a system of monitoring indicators is not yet in place even in the European Union to establish and adopt an appropriate and integrated policy on the prevention of violence in the domestic environment and in partnership. It is therefore impossible to determine whether the real price of violence against women in the family and other forms of domestic violence is comparable to the actual costs found in other European countries. Social Democrats are aware that it is not a uniform methodology, but I should point out that the cost in each country should be estimated at €40, but it is not so low that they do not think about the economic effects of violence, although in most cases it is possible to say that the costs are aimed at health and less at health care, the police and the legislation know the authorities, and less at what is related to rehabilitation. We hope that, together, we will be able not only to adopt the law but also to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, we have witnessed efforts in various areas over the past few years to help victims of violence to ensure their safety. These efforts have introduced a series of legal provisions to regulate fundamental issues that address victims or perpetrators of violence. However, the various legal measures enshrined in the various laws could be significantly more effective if they were complementary and if operators of different laws cooperated in offering assistance to victims. For this reason, the need for a law to regulate the area of domestic violence in a uniform manner would be more than necessary and we will support it in the LDS. At the LDS Club, we are pleased that some of the amendments proposed by the LDS Club in the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs have been adopted with regard to the National Programme and Action Plan on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. The national programme to be drawn up by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in cooperation with other ministries, will thus include an assessment of the situation, identification of key concepts, basic objectives, guidelines and tasks, managers of action plans, preventive activities, education and training guidelines and the provision of financial and other resources. Action plans for a period of two years as implementing acts of the national programme will also be prepared for the implementation of the five-year national programme. The adoption of these two acts also seems very important to us from this point of view, since a comprehensive assessment of the situation in this area has not been carried out in the context of the drafting of this Act. At the LDS, we will express our support for the amendments that further improve the text of the law. We are pleased, however, that despite the rejection of our amendment on the systematic financing of NGOs, which are given great powers and responsibilities by law, the Ministry has not overlooked this component of the fight against domestic violence and, with its amendment or amendment, the parties to the coalition propose to supplement the law in this direction. Therefore, in the LDS Club, we are forecasting support for the amendment to Article 10.a. At the LDS, however, we are concerned about the long-term deadlines for the adoption of sub-legislative acts, for which one year is envisaged, and therefore we also support amendments that go towards shortening this deadline. At the LDS Club, we agree with the law's proposal that the state will not interfere with the privacy of the family when the full-year victim expressly opposes this and does not raise suspicions about the crime that is being prosecuted for official duty. At the LDS Club, we would like to point out that in our view, each individual has the right to privacy and, by interfering with the family, we can violate constitutional rights if the intervention is not proportionate to the infringement. In view of the fact that the law prohibits any physical punishment, including the so-called reasonable measure of punishment that many parents use in the upbringing of their children, in the LDS Club, despite the fact that we do not defend the methods of disciplining children in the upbringing, we believe that it would not be right for the State to interfere with family relations even in such cases and when the victim explicitly rejects it. Since the law does not prohibit intervention in any of its provisions when it considers that any violence between family members constitutes a serious threat to the life and health of family members and their personal integrity, the solution proposed seems acceptable to us. At the LDS Club, however, we believe that the topic of the establishment of family courts should also be opened in such an important law, because in Slovenia we need a uniform treatment of family problems. This would fully regulate the legal relationship between family members and the possible punishment of violence in the single procedure. Although we support the law, at the same time we regret that we have not been able to adopt a package of legislation that would also allow for the establishment of family courts. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Members of the LDS Club wish and hope that the law will live in practice with all its good intentions and that time will not show too many shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much, and so do you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, you are most welcome. Violence in our family is much, too, unfortunately in our family, and before that, we cannot keep our eyes closed. Bedisi is the violence of parents against children, among the partners themselves, among the former partners, violence against the elderly or violence against the sick, the disabled. Violence must be discussed, prevented and eliminated. The law we are considering today makes it clear that no form of violence is acceptable. The family certainly is not a place where violence can be tolerated. The family is much more, it is the center of man, where there must be a safe haven in the first place, a place where man feels safe, understood, where he can find help, where he should be happy. Unfortunately, this is not always the case in all families. I'm sure we're most appalled by the famous cases of the last year that have taken place in families, the murders of spouses, relatives, even children, or those witnesses of parental murders. It is hard to believe that a person thus forgets himself or those whom he should love and is closest to them. That is why there is a law before us, even so that there are no more excuses from various institutions, that the family is a place where others have no right to intervene so that they cannot act until the act has taken place, even though it is a suspicion of an act rejected. True, domestic violence is more difficult to identify than other forms of public violence because of its specificity in private privacy. To what extent can he reach out for privacy was certainly one of the fundamental questions raised by lawmakers. However, we are probably of the same opinion that in violent acts the right to privacy can be severely restricted. Victims must be protected, as we have seen in recent cases how helpless the victims were against the agents, and the tied hands also had bodies that did not have the necessary powers. There is no need to talk about the consequences here, but surely the law is too late for many victims. The Domestic Violence Prevention Act defines the tasks of authorities and organisations that, within their powers and areas of work, must assist victims of violence. These are police, health organizations, welfare institutions, educational institutions and local community bodies. Social work centres have a central role to play, and so far domestic violence has been addressed in their tasks. Their duty will also be to establish multi-disciplinary teams and coordination of competent institutions, as the regulation has been criticised so far because of the excessive fragmentation of the assistance of various bodies and organisations. The aim was to develop a coordinated approach to addressing the problem. The aim of the law is also to give priority to cases and to respect the principle of proportionality of action in the implementation of measures, with a view to proportionality with the level of vulnerability of the victim resulting from the intensity of violence. The principle of proportionality is a safeguard against large State interference with the privacy of an individual. The principle obliges public authorities to protect victims and, on the other hand, limits are placed on the same authorities to intervene in the privacy of an individual or family. Violents will also receive treatment, even in the sense that violent acts are removed, so that these samples are not repeated. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that the law deals with sensitive topics and therefore it is also necessary to lead the debate with all due diligence and sensitivity. Despite all the knowledge and progress of our civilization, we seem to be lacking in progress in our relations. Clearly, our civil consciousness is still at a very low level, if not, tragic family history would not be happening. On the one hand, it is frightening that we have to regulate this subject with the law, but if the law prevents at least one family tragedy, that people will realize that the family is not a place for violence, and that there is even less permissive, we have done a great deal, so we will support the law in New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you very much, again, for the floor, Mr Vice President. The way and rhythm of life in today's society, which is further shaped by the impact of globalisation, the excessive greed of individuals on the enormous scale of material goods, and the growing lack of mutual tolerance and patience have a negative impact on domestic cohesion in the family and thus further accelerates all kinds of violence in it. It is good, though, that these negative rejections within the family are increasingly well spoken of and publicly spoken of, as well as generally about violence in our society. In terms of reducing and preventing the violence and behaviour of individuals and in favour of reducing the suffering of individual victims in the Slovenian People's Party's Group by the Government, the proposed Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence is welcomed as a very welcome and necessary document. We were initially of the opinion that the issues that we want to resolve with this bill would be resolved through the family code, but the situation in this area is such that it is necessary to act as soon as possible, which can only be done in a fairly effective way through a specific law that will address domestic violence in a specific and up-to-date way, since the general situation and feeling in the nation is largely dependent on the situation in the family as the basic cell of society. In this context, it is good that the bill imposes upon all authorities and organisations, in particular the holders of public powers, the duty to assist victims of violence, by prioritising all procedures and measures to protect them, regardless of the form of violence the victim is exposed to. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome as a good approach the fact that, in order to identify domestic violence and thus understand the reactions of victims under this bill, good treatment programmes must be developed, which must be professionally and multidisciplinaryly and multi-institutionally coordinated, because effective and within the framework of the civilisation standard can be intervention and action only if good cooperation between individual institutions, including government organisations, is established. It is important that the victim of violence is helped not only at the moment, but that mechanisms be put in place for the long-term safety of the victim, with special attention being paid to children as the most vulnerable and powerless victims of domestic violence in addition to the most frequent violence against women. The causes of domestic violence are many and many times the most important for families as a whole to be identified. The occurrence or extent of violence will only be difficult to reduce to a significant extent if only preventive programmes and direct assistance to victims are implemented, but it is still important that this is perhaps the most difficult work, working directly with the perpetrators of violence so that they do not continue with violence and this can also be done with the new victim. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that both the principles and the main solutions that the conceptuality of the bill entails are good and that on this basis it is justified to expect a significant reduction of domestic violence. However, we are changing that it would be better than the proposal of the law, the institution of the victim's advocate to extend or give him a more important mission to protect the victim's benefit. However, direct and continuous monitoring of the implementation of the law in practice is essential in order to achieve the objective of this Act, and it is necessary to issue or adopt, as soon as possible after the adoption of the law, quality public acts or sub-legislative acts, which are mainly provided for in Article 10 of the Law, and therefore, in our opinion, it is not necessary to wait one year as the deadline provided for in this proposal for the law, but it is possible to do so beforehand. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the draft law, which has experienced quite a few qualitative additions on the parent's working body. This time, however, I am pleased as the Chairman of the Home Committee who drafted the bill, with what happened on the Committee, that this time the Committee was no matter who put forward a good proposal, I understand and am prepared to adopt some really good proposals which form part of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u14	We have been united enough on this issue. And here it is also worth welcoming the willingness and listening mainly to the women's team at the Ministry, which was concerned that long-standing, very long-standing and also very good-quality discussions on this topic had come to grips with something that was difficult to write in the marriage text. In fact, we were all always, not just today, united and that violence, wherever it is, but especially within the family, is unacceptable. The main questions that have been raised here have always been a very clear principled answer; it is not good to have violence in society, it must be sanctioned, it must be addressed. But when it has to be prevented and restricted, in practice it is difficult, as in practice it was difficult to get the law into the text. Let us remember all of the Ombudsman's reports in the past, where all the elements in all the areas of how to put this into words have been, so to speak, and after long enough, when the solutions have been so consistent and mature, we now have a good solution. In the Zares Group, or even in the Society, we did, before the government considered this law and adopted it, adopted it, identified it, perhaps even helped in the time when the last open questions took place between writers and others, especially non-governmental groups. Additional open questions have been raised on the committee itself, and that is a good thing. But the law is so, this law is also radical in those points where it tries to protect the victim as much as possible and more importantly, it also tries to maximize those levers where it is not only about protecting, but also about rearming. And that's good where it can be done. But rearing society is a hard thing to do. Yesterday I was listening to a story when a woman - clearly, 88% of women are victims of domestic violence and only 12% is a female population that causes violence if I sum up the latest statistics - says, "He beat me!" A woman with broken bones again, literally, asks herself, "Why don't you report it?" "Yes, I wouldn't." And not only what the neighborhood will say, but what will happen to me if I do. And let's go to the discussion in the option that if you're afraid for an apartment, if you're afraid for material goods, if you're afraid for a physical body, if you don't have protection, you know there are institutions for that.", But the fear of sanctions, which would then occur when such an application occurs or such an examination occurs, is too great and these procedures and steps do not happen; bruises rather than action, because there may be insufficient stimulation in this direction. And that is the question if the law can solve it, but certainly at least the discussion about it, all the possibilities available, all the forces leading to the education of the spirit and thought, will benefit. I'm sure we'd be happy, too, in fact, if the package were to happen, it would be said that if there were three more urgent laws on the table, especially if we knew they wouldn't be there in the next year. So it's a family code, a marriage law. And family relations, for the Social Protection Act, and especially for criminal law, and we would like to see it happen, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a decision to enable the establishment of family courts. [[...]] It is certainly a rather sensitive problem, because the relationship between private and public is sensitive, and the law can deal with them, but we have to do it in life. Of course, how much will that be, and I think this marriage will improve this life [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will all be happy, not just in principle. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Let me also commend your clothes, especially your shirt, and we have all received them. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must say, when I was thinking before the session started, how would I say or correct the problem of violence in our society in five minutes, I had more problems or concerns. I will say that so many things have been said, even in this Chamber, the Parliamentary Chamber, and the words have mostly fallen to barren ground. The fact is, we need a marriage. Violence is present today, here and now. Even in a family that is much more stressful than other social groups, because of the high level of affection that characterizes family relationships. That's why you're sensitive, vulnerable. Even as far as violence is concerned. The fact is that violence in our society today is getting worse and worse, that the most endangered and at the same time the least protected or protected victims are children. And you know, when I'm listening to the periodical, I'm going to say some sensitive words and some principled or virtual awareness that children are really the most sensitive part of society and at the same time the part where our future is mirrored, I wonder how much responsibility we actually feel about them. They're the only ones left in our company who don't have their own messenger. The only one! In Slovenia we have to negotiate on this, and this saddens me, on my mother's working body, so that the children in the roof marriage, that is, in this law that we are considering today, deserve their place and their place. We adopt a law that, in the definition of family members, does not use the term "child", but speaks only of blood relatives at the level of the family. It's either a flaw or a weakness of the law. Even in the context of special care in dealing with violence and offering assistance to victims, there are no children; they are old; they are disabled; children are released. A young family member enjoys special protection against violence in one way or another. And I'm asking you if that's true in practice. What I miss specifically in this law is the area of prevention. I miss the clear signal that it is necessary to build on positive values, that children play an active role in this. We adopt a law that will not adequately protect children. I'm afraid there won't be, because we're simply not able to understand the fact that we need children to have sensitive legislation. This should be taken into account if we are to build on European comparable legislation. On the other hand, we adopt a law, which is a statutory law for the prevention of domestic violence, but this law does not have clear, precise criteria and criteria for the use in practice. It does not define clear powers, responsibilities, sanctions in the event of institutional violence, nor does it exist in our society. We are adopting a law that is intended to defend or ensure a uniform approach to dealing with domestic violence. Although the law mentions in almost every article another law in question, which is intended to be the basis for the way and performance of a task or competence referred to in this law. It mentions even laws that are not yet in existence, we have already heard, the family code, the provincial legislation and so on. I am truly afraid that this law will in practice be difficult to achieve its purpose, and there is still a lack of clarity. Even one year, as long as the Government has laid down in the transitional provisions in order to prepare all the sub-laws and other laws relating to this law, is too much, in my opinion. But let me finish. I'll say, there's enough quiet acceptance and insensitiveness of society to violence. We certainly welcome the decision of the Ministry, the Minister, who has approached the social eye-opening process. We will certainly support this law in the Slovenian National Party. At the end of the day, the Minister also appealed that, in accordance with his powers and powers under the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, he should also approach the creation of family courts in cooperation with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u18	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, we condemn all violence, so we are pleased to have before us a proposal for a law that means the first step in our common desire to prevent violence not only in the family but in society in general. We are also pleased that almost all agree with the content of the proposed law, both the coalition and the opposition, of course, with some different views, but we agree with it, but above all we want it to be adopted as soon as possible. Today, domestic violence is no longer just a private problem for two people. It is a problem of civil fundamental human rights and therefore it is the duty of the State to intervene, especially when it comes to violence against those who are actually the most vulnerable and who urgently need immediate assistance. It is our duty to adopt a coordinated approach to solving this problem of domestic violence and to assist victims by activating an effective social network, including in cooperation with NGOs and civil society in general, which, according to an assessment by the DeSUS Group, is now followed by the bill under consideration. The fact is, it is violence in the family that affects everyone, both men and women, adults, children, and often older ones. It is therefore important that the text of the bill is aimed at preventing domestic violence as such, so that it does not apply only to certain persons, such as women or children, but that the definition of a family member should be extended to other laws, taking into account the specific close relationship between the perpetrator and the victim. The definition of violence itself is well defined, taking into account the diversity of practices that take into account the different forms of violence as such. The problem of violence is multifaceted and therefore does not fall solely within the scope of criminal law or the competence of the authorities of formal supervision, but also falls within the scope of family law, the law on relations in such or other living communities, since it is highly dependent on other non-legislative factors to deal with the problem. Modern societies today take the principle of criminal law as an extreme tool in dealing with crime in general. Therefore, it is far more productive to adopt other civil, family-law measures which, on the one hand, allow the victim to receive adequate and early assistance to reintegrate into normal life and, on the other hand, provide assistance to the perpetrators of violence in order to prevent re-violence, followed by solutions in the proposed law. However, it is important to mention programmes to support victims of such violence and, of course, programmes to increase the sensitivity of people who first come in contact with the victim in order to provide them with legal assistance and prepare victims to somehow engage in further measures that follow violence in terms of measures to address a particular problem. Since this is a highly interdisciplinary and interinstitutional phenomenon, training is extremely important for cooperation and communication between different institutions, such as the police, the Centre for Social Work, the prosecution, lawyers, courts, NGOs and others in society. Members of the DeSUS stand in the position to promote a determined resolution of domestic violence. We are aware of the importance of the problem and the fact that violence in the domestic environment and in partnership is mostly disguised, and therefore it is also difficult to recognize and prevent it and therefore the proposed idea is necessary to support the system's governance as well. Domestic and social violence in general can only be limited by the effective efforts of the whole society. That is why we think that this proposal for a law is a good basis for limiting and perhaps exterminating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec should present her position, but she is not. I would like to invite Ambassador Evo Irgl, who will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed law on the prevention of domestic violence. In this mandate, we have dealt with the issue of domestic violence on several occasions and there has been a renewed tendency, or common denominator, to encourage a determined resolution of the problem of violence as soon as possible. And not only is it happening behind the four walls and that is why it remains usually hidden to the public's eyes, but it also sounds like a lot of things, but it also happens in the public, in the street, in schools, among young people, among certain groups, etc. Certainly, we must not close our eyes to this problem. And the only correct and commendable thing is that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has recognized how necessary it is to resolve these issues and prevent them within the legal framework. In particular, if we know that the former government or department ministry has at times been rather ignorant of such issues or more precisely, the initiatives proposed by the former Ombudsman and also recorded in the reports. The proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence shows that this Government is aware of the need to find solutions in this area as soon as possible, leading to positive effects in society. At the same time, however, it is necessary to realize that domestic violence is also a consequence of the situation of the spirit in society as a whole, so we must not simply assume that the family is the focal point of violence in solving this problem. It is certainly necessary to consider the family as a fundamental value all the time. However, it must be borne in mind that awareness of zero tolerance to violence is essential in all segments of society and in the family as well. This is also one of those laws where, at least on the basis of principle, we all agree that they are still important, but above all that they also have a role and task of awareness and warning in addition to strict legal provisions. The law we have before us is the first system law in this area. The law gives a significant role to social work centres, because unfortunately so far the centres have not always played the necessary role and too often the passiveity of the centres has occurred, there has been a loss of confidence between them and those who have been victims of violence or who have reported violence. By this law, social work centres in practice are obliged to help each victim, regardless of age and gender. Of course, this also increases responsibility, and the law also provides for compulsory education for professionals working in the field of violence. An interinstitutional approach to dealing with violence is also being introduced, giving the law certain added value. So far, the problems of violence have been dealt with by individual institutions that have held each other accountable. Under this law, however, the competent institutions will have to work together and cooperate as effectively as possible. An important point of the law is also the legalisation of two institutes; the first is the victim's companion, who provides the victim with psychological support during the entire course of treatment, and the second institute, which is the introduction of free legal assistance in judicial proceedings. The law also allows and provides greater security for the victim of domestic violence, especially through the provision of police security, that is, when the victim enters a common apartment from which he has to take needs to survive, then through a measure whereby the court may, on a proposal from the victim, order the victim to leave the apartment in common use to the victim, and through a third measure to prevent any contact by the court with the victim. Certainly, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want this law to really help reduce violence not only in the family but also in the wider family. That is why we will also support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to a debate on articles and amendments. It will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments of 13.12. In this way, I shall put to the debate Article 1 and the three amendments, the first of the Slovenian National Party's Emissary Group, the second of the Slovenian National Party's Emissary Group and also the third of the Slovenian National Party's Emissary Group. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got five reported discussers. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, let me first explain why the Slovenian National Party tabled three amendments. It is basically one amendment, the first amendment, which is written in full. To avoid or perhaps merely to ensure that the first amendment, which defines in Article 1 of the Law in addition to the applications, is also a matter of order. This amendment, which, on the other hand, gives special weight to children and minors, would not have been accepted, could possibly have been adopted by any of the other two amendments, it is said, whether in part only the definition of tasks under Article 1 or Article 2 only an additional definition, thereby giving a greater weight under the law to a particular group of children and minors. Although I personally think it would make sense to adopt the first amendment, I appeal to you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support at least one of these three amendments, which would further clarify or clarify the content of the law or the very purpose of the law, which is not the last purpose of Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Member Bojan Homan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. In this first amendment to Article 1, it seems to me whether there is a "child and others" written in it, meaningful or not, as we take it. Since this law contains a chapter specifically intended for children in Article 4, and I believe that domestic violence is not limited to children, it can be a wife, a husband, a disabled person, an elderly person, and, after all, pets who are also family members. I regret every violence in the family. And if this law were to come into force at all, I would say that there are consequences to an irregular situation in the family. For me, the roof law, which is in force, is the law on marriage. If we adhere to this law, we do not need this law to prevent domestic violence. I miss weddings today, that's not it. I miss marriage school for marriage, which today is not what young people, a society that enters into marriage, the marriage community, serve. And then they go unprepared for marriage, the time of romance passes, and marriage comes into the stage of battle. Some can come out of this phase of fighting through education, through parental school, through the various courses that exist, and somewhere this stage of fighting remains throughout life, and there is this hidden violence in a family they cannot get out of. Then, as a famous Slovenian psychiatrist, family therapist, Dr. Rugelj, when this marriage comes into contact, the family is in some way, I will use his vocabulary, "always imported". And when social comes, when the police have to get involved in these matters, the family "is already imported" and it is essential for me that we adhere to this bill on marriage, where it is well written, the spouses are equal, the spouses are obliged to respect each other, to trust each other and to help each other." And so on, "you're free to decide on the birth of children. They have equal rights and obligations to children." And that's in there for the whole thing. If only once a year, when the wedding anniversary took a marriage note, if a couple went to some dinner, made a balance back and forth, and went through these points of marriage, I mean, if these points were to be consciously held, there would be no domestic violence. This is how I support this law, which is before us today, because I regret any violence in the family, and most of all, it's over children, over the elderly, over the disabled. All violence is violence and must be prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 1 also refers to a few more words in relation to the orientation of legislation, and as some fellow Members have mentioned, in fact, it is a matter of defining the content of the law and it is also the purpose of the law, what it should prevent or what it brings to Slovenian society. The fact is, there is violence in our society, but the question is how we deal with it. We can also tackle it in such a way that we are based on the assumption of family criminalisation, and this has actually happened. This law led to a rise in crime or family criminalism. Mr Hanžek, former Ombudsman, said that the family was the most dangerous environment for an individual. This was a turning point, this is a breakthrough statement that raises a lot of questions in Slovenian society and in each individual. Family is a personal matter in which it is very difficult to interfere. This is an intimate matter, and this law raises the question whether these mechanisms, which are listed, are centres for social work and so on, and whether they are indeed those who can enter this intimate community that they are also prepared for this. When we looked before the time of the definition of how they are already interfering in much less sensitive matters, we found that, in fact, the state does not trust them that 95% of their work is inadequate. This does not mean that workers work poorly, but it does mean that they are not qualified to do so and that interference with such a community is not easy. If this law is adopted as it is, even some other consequences may arise. By entering escorts and lawyers into this violence, which can be provoked in such a way or other, some kind of battlefield is created. And then in this battlefield, on the other hand, the partner as a man will enter with his lawyer and with his NGOs. What's happening to us. After all, the Slovenian society will be split up and even in this intimate area of conflict. What will our youth really think? Boys - that is, this law presupposes or that it is coerced and that it is also understood that men are actually some bullies who need to be prevented from doing so - with this awareness they enter into personal relations, boys, and on the other hand also girls. But girls understand how they are treated on the other hand by men, that acquiring a child is that basic issue, the goal, and then this means further reading these rights with all the trenches and which creates the so-called battlefield, which I have also talked about. With regard to the marriage itself, everyone wonders where those key tools are when violence occurs. He's gone. Therefore, it remains in some way at the level of the declaration. The key most powerful tools should be, including criminal, which means that there should be changes in the criminal code. But it's not good to break this legal matter down. In my opinion, it would be good if more important and more binding provisions were introduced in the Marriage and Family Relations Act on the resolution of these conflicts. Violence is increasing, and this means that post-liberalism, which has been established over the past ten years, has not produced those desired results, at least so it can be concluded from analytical data. This leads us to build a family community and a social effort on other assumptions to restore values, those that have been forgotten. Respect, solidarity, understanding, love has disappeared from our understanding, but at the same time not only this romantic appreciation view, but also very concrete measures to ensure a good family community and a partnership. These should, however, be measures starting in primary school, within the family and then within governmental or non-governmental organisations, institutions preparing young people for partner life, for life with a spouse, for life in the family, for understanding the law, for conflict resolution, and in this area could also be found in good role centres for social work with additional skills. And that's what this marriage should be. When I also listened to some non-governmental groups, I was warned that, in the background, this law could also be understood as a sort of attitude against a man, that the last fortress of men would fall, and that it formed an important part of an equal family community; that this would not mean improving co-existence, but rather tension. Those who have been pushed aside or wounded in the family community are expected to respond more irrationally and are therefore expected to do so. The law should, and above all, provide assistance to young people in this education, education for the family, for the partnership community. And violence as such is in society in general. It is interesting that we have met and dealt with domestic violence in the first place. Of course, that's to some extent. I will not support the law, nor will I vote against it. However, I do not accept responsibility for the consequences that will have a lasting negative impact on Slovenian society on Slovenian families. Even those families who had somehow established this harmonious relationship would have been further damaged by these measures provided for by law, and they would actually have been misdirected. It is envisaged that the breakdown of family communities will also occur to a greater extent in the future. And that's not what the fundamental purpose of the law would be. The fundamental intent of marriage must be the opposite of building a family community to help improve what has happened in recent times in a negative direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u27	I'm in charge, but you'll probably call me naive. So the general debate on the law is already done by the National Assembly, the working body. Today we are talking about amendments to individual articles. I believe that every individual Member likes to take a shower at some point, but I ask you kindly to stick to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We are only talking about the articles and the amendment tabled in this article. Since you, Comrade Petty Officer, have gravely violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and have not interrupted you, I will not interrupt anyone else. That's why I'm saying it's only my desire to hold on to this, but please, if you will. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss Article 1 and the three amendments tabled in Article 1. Notwithstanding the warning, Mr Vice-President, Article 1 is such that it speaks of the purpose of the law, because here in paragraph 1 the purpose is precisely defined, and also in the second, it is not possible to discuss amendments differently than to touch certain general things. And let me say these things. For me, the definition of the purpose of the law as set out, so far agreed, is the final form of the communication on what this law governs and what can be complemented by what is written in Articles 2, 3 and 4. It is precisely in connection with Article 4 that I think it is a supplement which wants children and minors to be specifically mentioned, redundancies. And that's why I don't intend to support him. However, there is something else that needs to be said to justify this. This is because the whole concept and the whole view of the treatment of domestic violence as a movement grew, however, from the knowledge that the first group of people in the family who are most often victims of violence must be protected, and these are women. And if women remain unprotected in the family, and if they do not have the opportunity to deal with such violence, which is usually repeated, to act or to obtain protection, children are often victims, because it is linked because the violence of an individual is not usually directed against one person. I think that, regardless of what the family is, how we view it as a value, it is still necessary to start with the basic thing, and this is - if we are to focus our efforts on building partnerships between people and following some universal values that have been on the run for centuries, then this type of law really should not be dealt with. Therefore, I must challenge those who believe that the adoption of a law dealing with domestic violence is the destruction of a family as values. This violence exists, whether we want to see it or not. If we confess to him, if we take action against him, we'll only help reduce the violence. Let's just look at the statistics on victims with the worst consequences, and we'll see what's going on. Therefore, it seems to me that it is not a solution to silence, but it is a solution to strengthen the knowledge that there are measures, that there are institutions to help victims, as well as those that trigger violence, when they learn that they, too, and their human dignity, are being made available to society in these cases. That is why it seems to me that such a defined violence, or the purpose of the law as defined in paragraph 1, is defined precisely enough and, last but not least, specialised NGOs have found that the general definition is to cover, for example, violence against disabled persons, including older persons. So that it is now particularly important to highlight any group, it is probably necessary to complement with something else, not only that, but it is this vulnerable group of children and minors that is specifically mentioned in Article 4, and I think that this should be sufficient as regards the legal text. I would also like to mention a positive shift that has taken place in dealing with this negative social phenomenon and which, thank God, has an overall dimension - of course, I would like to point out in this case to the Council of Europe's campaign to Parliament, united in the fight against violence against women - even in the family. Because this two-year campaign, which includes our Parliament, has made it possible to discuss all things more openly, while at the same time we are more at risk of what is happening to us than what is happening in other countries of the Council of Europe. And since I also saw a questionnaire at the Istanbul Equal Opportunities Committee last week addressing all members of the Council of Europe, I must say that our country will have something good to write and answer this question. Therefore, I think it is worth stressing this great progress that has been made since 2005 until 2007. In March of this year's position, it has only happened that we have been able to listen to NGOs, all the professional institutes involved in monitoring this phenomenon, and to the parliamentarians, as far as we were concerned, because no special attention has been given to the members and members of the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities - I regret to say. But we will arrange for the publication of the contributions, and some things will be said. And it is precisely that a translation of the handbook for Members and Members prepared by the Council of Europe has been issued, that I think it is a good signal that we will find room for discussion, to draw attention to these problems and to awareness-raising. And another initiative, say, I dare say at this point. This is because in reality the victims of violence are the most common women. But let's just once reverse and say so, really, the most common causes of domestic violence are men. I would therefore also expect fellow Members to possibly follow those European parliaments in which they set up a special group dealing with these problems, which follows that violence is unacceptable and that, in fact, if I reverse the pattern, if it is found that one in four or five women is victims of violence if I reverse the pattern, I can say that only one in four or five men is the cause of violence. Therefore, it is unacceptable for all those who are not perpetrators of violence to consider one part of society to be one that accepts unacceptable social behaviour. I hope that our Parliament will ever be able to adopt any position such as that of establishing zero tolerance in society for any violence against children and for any violence in the family. And when we realize that, then I mean, step by step we'll be building relations within the family and between the sexes that we can call partner relations. For in any way we turn things around, violence is always a result of a different distribution of power. And partnership is the best way towards establishing or maintaining an unequal distribution of power. Let me point out once again, this first amendment and whoever wants to add, I do not intend to support, but the one who talks about tasks, because the justification is such that something good can still be inherited from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Allow me, Comrade Petty Officer, to apologize to you for having previously appointed you by name, given that you have extended the debate, I see that all the next panellists will share it. And from this town, I predict that I will no longer restrict anyone, no matter what you talk about. Member Robert Hrvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will focus primarily on Article 1 or the amendment of the Slovenian National Party. I have to say, I took it seriously when I read it. At first sight, this amendment is necessary. Children are the ones who need the most attention. This is the group of people who are the least protected and, in their own way, the most vulnerable. Today we are adopting this roof law, which, in my opinion, will be a good basis for building a quality aid system for victims of violence. From now on, all institutions that have the powers and obligations to act in order to prevent and address the causes of violence will combine and act both preventive and curatively. And this is a very good message from this law. We're talking about family. We are talking about domestic violence and, above all, about preventing this violence. In my opinion, the family is the most important cell in our society and there are children in the family. The amendments propose that children and minors should also be added to Article 1. As I said at the outset, at first sight this is absolutely necessary. However, in Article 2, the definition of all these family members is then defined, and I must say that this is quite embarrassing. I mean, here I agree with Mrs. Barbara Tavš, it says that the child is a blood relative in a straight line. That's actually true, that's true. But nothing would be wrong if it was written by a child. For me, a child is a child, and nothing else can be like a child. I understand and support the ambitions of the Member, who has already said this in her presentation, and it is right to advocate for children. However, on the other hand, the explanation given by the Minister, or the explanation given at the amendment, convinced me that Articles 2 and 4 clearly and figuratively stated that the children were already defined inside, and just because this is really further written, I will not support this amendment. I absolutely agree, however, that it is necessary to protect children from violence and that this law is truly good and I will finally be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Given that there's still a desire to discuss, I'm opening up a reappealing round. Here you go. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again. I notified myself to the debate mainly on the basis of a discussion by my colleague Drobnic. Because, through his debate, I can understand and also explain that, in the framework of the previous Government, the Liberal Democracy has been preparing the text of the law on this subject, because of the change in the elections, time has been devoted to regulating this area within the new government, and on the basis of the former Minister, we can see the reasons why this bill has not been on the table for so long, as Comrade Drobnič somehow estimates that this law will cause more damage to Slovenian society than the benefits - at least so it has been possible to understand its debate. Sam does not agree with such an assessment for a simple reason, because one of the basic messages of this law is to define the concept of violence, that is to say that he acknowledges that this violence exists and, of course, answers questions: how to prevent violence and how to reduce domestic violence. I myself, in support of this law, have a clear answer to the question. We may also have our own experiences or experiences of our neighbors, friends who have ever been in distress. And to talk about how the attitude of Slovenian society will be to someone who is put aside in the family; there is no way that I can accept the idea that the one who will be put on the side of the family suffers from it, whether it is the responsibility of Slovenian society to warn us of these anomalies, tries to help and create a proper, tolerant and respectful relationship in the family. This seems to me to be an extremely important message of the law, because we have lived in the belief so far that many people have lived in the belief that there is no need to define the concept of domestic violence. And on the basis of this definition, take all measures to reduce this social phenomenon in Slovenian society and stop blinding our eyes to these issues. I would very much like to bear the illusion that the Family Relations Act, on partnership relations, the existing legislation would ideally establish all relations within the family. I do not think here that family relations are just relationships between marriage partners or between partners living in an extramarital relationship. But Article 2 itself says when we define family members that family relations are much more complex than just the definition of a relationship between partners. And I don't understand this law either, so it's written so that it's a man who always causes violence. I just don't get it that way. We're talking about the victim and we're talking about the one who's doing the violence. And I don't recognize myself here as the one who wrote this law that wrote it against men, but it's a mutual relationship that we're talking about in terms of tolerance, respect between all family members. And I would like this law to be understood in this way by the Slovenian public, who listens to us today and by the Slovenian public, who can at certain times be associated with the content of this law. And here I find it impossible to support the thought that this law is going in a negative direction, that it is directed at young people entering marriage. Of course, it is important to note those conditions that exist in a family relationship, which are a deviation of some normal tolerance, respect among individual family members. And this is not about the fact that marriage will contribute to the generalization of family relations, but rather about the fact that it is where the family has problems with violence so that the family can be helped. And also in the position of the LDS Club, we have said that we think very carefully about where personal rights are and where, say, the rights of the country that then enters into the regulation of these relations within the family. It seems to me that such a journey and such thinking should be accompanied by the consideration of this law, but not that we are now trying to fix a man in Slovenian society as that evil, which is the reason that tomorrow young people will not enter or decide to enter the marriage. I think that this is the wrong approach and the wrong signals that we want to accept in fact to create an entire family policy in the Republic of Slovenia and to cultivate ambition to increase the number of newborns in the future. This way, when we stigmatize, say, one part of the population in Slovenia, of course, this is not my way. It seems to me that it is very important to draw attention to the particular concern that we are giving to specific groups for which particular care should be identified in this law. Certainly, the amendments of colleague Barbara Žgajnar Tavš remind us that children and adolescents are a very important group. Given that it has been said here that this law is also somehow a continuation of efforts and a broader context of violence against women - it is necessary under the second indent, which is linked to these amendments to Article 1. In the second paragraph of Article 4, we are talking about the child being a victim of violence even if he is present in the exercise of violence against another family member. This means that if there is a high level of violence against women in a family relationship, we can indirectly assess that this violence is even more significant to children. So, indirectly and directly! Therefore, I think it is very important to think about how to deal with prevention and protection in cases of violence in children and in minors. Therefore, I think that thinking in this direction is extremely important and a reflection on how to write down the text of the law in order to give this group of family members the greatest attention. Of course, when we define the purpose of this law, when we define it as a social reality, so that there is violence in the family, I do not imagine that we will solve all the problems with this law alone. However, I am sure that the purpose and purpose of this law did not lead to any deterioration of this situation where violence already exists. Let us therefore reflect on how this violence, where it is, to prevent and eliminate it, is not to think that it will contribute even more to separating and killing harmony where it already exists in the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Member Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to say that we are considering this proposal for a second reading and because I am not really a proponent of any long, fruitless debates, but I know one, under article 122, the law tabled by the National Assembly as its act is treated in general. That's when we talk about all the purposes of the law, the material provisions, everything. It also makes sense; on the basis of that debate, it is then possible to enter into a second reading with concrete amendments to improve the law within the meaning of the general conclusion; but at the second reading, we are discussing the amendment, talking about the law and the law in general, and I think it is completely commercially challenged. But well, it is wise in the title of each policy option at a given time to stretch it past the Rules of Procedure. Now for the amendment, there will be no misunderstanding. I fully support the concept of the law, and also the approach taken by the Secretariat Ministry and thus by the Government, I think it is right at the moment. As a matter of fact, the representative of the proposer of these amendments explained in the introduction what was going on and also, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, did very well. And here I have a thought. I have already thought on the working body that it is reasonable to maintain Article 1 as it is set out, as it sets out the concept of law for the purpose. If, in the first paragraph, we take the approach to take an explicit individual victim specifically into account, in this case, children, then it is very dangerous that the conceptual law will be understood in a slightly smaller treatment of other victims. Statistics show that the largest or most frequent victims are women or women in marriage. Then it is a little awkward, if we release our wife as such, and since Article 4 explicitly wants what our colleague Žgajner wants in this amendment and systematically sits, it may be a shame that this neutral concept of Article 1(1) is being evaluated or taken away from him by that true charm or that true understanding then in the practice of proceeding. I am also not sure if it is good for us to apply for the role of state authorities, and also for the role of the concept of task. I have already said on the committee that if we enter into tasks, it will then be understood in practical terms that the tasks of the state authorities on this issue are only those listed or summarized by this law. The tasks of the State authorities, on the question raised by the broader context of understanding domestic violence, all the causes affecting the occurrence of violence are far greater than those of the State authorities as a result of the material provisions of this Act. I am therefore afraid that in practice the understanding and application of this law will enter into this concept of the tasks of the state authorities only what comes out of this law. For the benefit of this law, it would certainly be necessary for the purpose of this law to be defined in some way by the proposer, because he has adopted this concept with some substantive meaning. It is good, however, that we have complemented Article 1 on the Committee in paragraph 2 with a very meaningful entry, as found by the Legislative and Legal Service. So, given my knowledge of this matter, the purpose and the concept of the law, unfortunately, someone may misunderstand me, I cannot support such changes in Article 1, because I am almost firmly convinced that they know how to practice the implementation of this law before a worse journey than the purpose of the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much. And I give my word to Maja Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nicely greeted! I must say that I will not support the first amendment or amendment to Article 1 because it does not seem reasonable for us to extend the text of the first article. However, I would like to add a few words in general with regard to the law, as others have also been allowed to do so. I think we all agree that we want love, respect, solidarity, understanding to rule in our families, not just families, but in society as a whole. Especially should a family as a basic social cell have the place that belongs to it, especially because of children, to develop in the personality that we want. We must also strive to create conditions for the development of good partnerships and marriages, but life is not ideal. That is why I think that there is violence within the family and that there is not enough legislation already present, just a law on marriage and a criminal code. I am therefore pleased that the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence, especially because it seems very important to me to define domestic violence as a particular social phenomenon. When we define it, we also condemn it in some way as unacceptable in society. It also seems important to me that the traditional definition, which has so far been limited to physical, sexual and psychological violence, extends to the area of economic violence and neglect. We have often said that victims of violence are usually children and women, right and I am happy that the law also extends assistance to all victims, including men, so that they do not feel in some way hurt, and that violence against men can also happen to spread to the elderly and especially to the disabled. It seems important to me that national authorities have a special role to play in this regard, especially when it comes to priority treatment and in respect of the principle of proportionality. Social work centres are also getting new jobs, and they are responsible for drawing up a victim assistance plan, which I think is important because long-term solutions are being drawn up to regulate family situations in such families as these anomalies occur. Most importantly, it seems to me that the law regulates that important matter - in cases so far it has usually happened that the victims had to leave the apartment or house where domestic violence took place. However, it seems important to me that the perpetrator of the violence will have to leave the apartment and not the victims, as I said it usually happened. I am glad that the law is before us and that in this way we will be able to help many families to make life easier and better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudi Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I think it's right that we're talking out loud today about problems that are hiding behind the walls of apartments and houses. In fact, it is hard to imagine that we are today in the 21st century and we need to talk about domestic violence; even more, we need to adopt a law on the prevention of domestic violence. But it is true that we are probably all united here today that the adoption of this law is welcome. It is very sad to note that in most cases the victims of such violence are women, who are now mostly employed and who are, as a rule, independent of men. What does a community like that have to do with anything, I wonder. Are those kids? Is that a shame in front of the neighborhood? I don't think that's the main reason. Today, single mothers are common and children in society are no longer marked as they used to be -'scrapers', as was sometimes quite often said. Today, such a relationship is very easy to break. I think a normal man can't be violent, and he's a violent man with mental problems. Their power, which otherwise cannot be shown, is shown above the weak. It is likely that this violence has been committed or has been the victims of childhood and youth violence themselves. I think it's the foundation of the whole family, and we have to insist. What are the families like today? What's our value? Is that, for example, a "fine"? Did you allow everything at the expense of someone else, stroll around, drink till the early hours of the morning? Sexual freedom at an early age in order for today’s youth not to be deprived of anything?Oh, my God! If there is no family relationship behind all of this, which, of course, sets an example with its life, and then sets it, then I think it is a very important, healthy boundary. The only family is the one who can raise. We have successfully accepted this role, and the police are powerless. If one or the other wants to do something, they often get into a conflict in which they most often stay alone and take short. In all the material abundance that today brings, many are very poor and lonely. Those heats, the acceptances that only a regulated family can give, can't be replaced, neither can this law. I've heard that great, rich civilizations are about to perish due to the disintegration of the family. What do we do in this area? The curriculum is packed with a lot of data. How many students learn about family relations, relationships between partners, communication about non-violence, when relationships are no longer normal, and when a psychologist or psychiatrist needs to be treated? They go to life completely unprepared, spoiled, and every problem puts them into despair, which they then solve — with whom: alcohol, drugs, violence, and ultimately suicide. Maybe in this area, at least the Church does something with mandatory preparations for marriage. But how many more are officially married? We prefer corning because it's better and less nuisance if we find out after a while that we're no longer together. We all know that love is short-lived and reality is very different. In doing so, we forget about children who are innocent and need love and security, a warm home made by both father and mother, each with his important role and no one is substituted. The child learns in the family and carries this education forward to new generations. A child in the example of loving parents who respect one another and know how to resolve conflicts everywhere, patiently, gets a better touch for his or her life. Following the example of his parents, he will also try to solve his problems in life. I think I've made myself clear. Priority should be given to prevention, regulated family and education for a common life. More attention needs to be paid to preventing bad relations, and when there are deviants such as violence, professional assistance is needed if there is anything else to be done. A lot of deviants show up pretty soon, and we don't know if we want to see them. That is what young people should learn and prepare for life. It seems particularly important to me to enact an interinstitutional approach to addressing this domestic violence, which is a guarantee for a comprehensive approach to solving problems within the family. The law, at least in my opinion, is good, and I believe that we will, with some of them, accept it unanimously today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. And I give my word to Mr Branko Marinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present today's debate, in which I will try to steer the course of these amendments, to tell the story of one of the women who, according to my role as mother and wife. I'm saying this because I recently heard it on a public radio show when she signed up and told her cruel story. She began: "For 27 years I have suffered domestic violence, from my husband and my children. When I complain to the police and the social work center, they always tell me the same story. This same story is so that this mother needs treatment because she is a mental patient." Unfortunately, I didn't hear the sequel to this story because she started crying, and that was the end of this public confession. Now I'm going to the content of this law. Respected and respected, I do not agree with those who say that this content in the law we are dealing with could be passed into the law on marriage and family relations. Certainly a sincere congratulations to this government, the department ministry, which has reached out to this important law. This is the first system law that accurately defines the prevention of domestic violence. Dear colleague, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, is always working hard and trying to help others, probably because of their professional orientation, often to tell the sad truths that are suppressed in the absence of legislation in force. And here I am with my colleague. I am convinced that if we also followed these proposals, which the Slovenian National Party is proposing in Article 1, there might be a duplication of certain provisions. That is, if we look at Article 1 where we would add "and tasks" on the proposal of the amendment, and if we go to look at the following articles, we will find that these tasks are precisely defined. I think it's in Articles 5 or 6. Of course, it is necessary to understand here that we also come from the fact that it is better to write twice and even, if necessary, three times, but it seems to me that these tasks are defined in another article. But when we talk about children, and they are also the most exposed in some way, it is necessary to come from that story that I started at the beginning, that the mother is the one who is actually the victim of the violence of her children. There are many of these too, and we may even talk too little about these. Many parents are victims of the violence of their children. This is told by many stories that are then publicly defined in the media. I am convinced that the law, also with the proposed amendments that we will adopt, is today in the stage of first reading, that we will try to upgrade it, by taking into account those amendments which are essential and where they are meaningful and what is necessary and important for the finalisation of this law. In short, the law proposed by the Secretariat is a good one, the first such law, the system law, gives all those institutions and many other associations precise and clear powers to act in concrete cases. Unfortunately, so far, the record of family violence was only possible from police records, which, in fact, were the only ones to be kept as an institution, while all others were not precisely defined. This is also a great deal because all those who can contribute to the prevention of domestic violence can be more reliably and legally incorporated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Marinic, because you mentioned me. You know, Article 1 sets out the purpose of the law. And if applications are defined for the purpose of the law, it is said that the sentence of Article 1(1) of the first paragraph, that this law provides for the role of state authorities, makes sense to add "and tasks" to the "application". This was also discussed on the working body, and as far as I know, the ministry also listened to this amendment or this content. However, to those who say that if the tasks were added under Article 1(1), this would be too narrow, since it would be possible to understand that the tasks relate only to this Article, that is to say those tasks defined in this Act. No, I'm saying that the articles should be read in full. And the second paragraph of Article 1 clearly and loudly states that the measures laid down in other laws also apply to the prevention of domestic and protective violence and to the assistance of the victim, in addition to the measures provided for in this Act. It is said that it would make real sense, that no one would be harmed, but we would just write down a slightly clearer dictates of this Article 1 of the Law. As far as my career is concerned. Yes, and not just a professional orientation, but in my line of work, I also have a moral, ethical orientation. And that's what I put first. Therefore, once again, with the support of the amendment, which adds special weight to children and young people under Article 1, it makes very sense to put the weight of society on this group of people who remain completely unprotected. That's all I had in mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you. We continue the debate. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u44	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the amendments to Article 1, it is very important that this Article 1 nevertheless incorporates matters that have a priority that are more visible in all the problems. Other problems are not denied or eliminated, but, however, as regards children and government tasks, it is good that it is built in, especially because experience shows that we love to literally adhere to the law and all that is meant to be the case, and then what we want to forget is such a "paragraphatory" thought. When we talk about domestic violence, it's not a new thing and it's not the result of liberalism or how we've heard it before. The first reports of this have been there since the middle of the 19th century. In the agricultural and handicrafts news, we have an interesting story about a man who was beaten by a "grandmother". So we have the opposite situation, as we usually do, and that's probably why this part is even more silent, because there's still stigma there, there's no mercy to the victim, but there's still ridicule, so we have more of these things. This is also true in cases where children beat up their parents when they are returned to them at times, it can also be heard from these reports, both in their hands and in the hands of the police and the courts. Above all, it is important that we do not close our eyes, ears, and silence in such cases, although they belong to closed groups such as families. I count that this law, which is now before us, is not the last step ahead of the goal, but that it is the first step towards the goal. In fact, it is necessary to change things in this society, not to return to an old condition when it was tolerated, tolerated and hidden, but to raise the family to a pedestal, but to open things up. This will be very difficult to do in this loving country, because we have another pattern of behavior: everything within, let it remain within, to be regulated within. That's what we've heard in the end from the mouth of the Prime Minister himself, that someone is muddling Slovenia around. This can also quickly be passed on to the family, that someone muds the family around the neighbors, in the street, in the village, in the environment. And that's why these things are hiding. On the other hand, we have interesting information that one of the most read books in Slovenia is of these, say, Newager books, the book of John Clees Family and how to survive in them. So people are worried, they have problems, and they're looking, because these things can't be looked for publicly, because it's embarrassing because it's a stain, and then they're looking for something else. It is also important to see how much family therapists and more are involved. That is why I am certainly in favour of the amendments to this Article, because they are already speaking more clearly, more clearly, and with priority on matters that families are experiencing. Of course, this is far from criminalizing the family as an environment. It's about those families, about those environments where violence occurs or where it's transferred from a different environment to a family. Today, families are just as different as they used to be. Today, both parents in the job are usually working all day long and, of course, older parents are still working, so that the type of tasks previously carried on in the family are transferred to other environments, or educational institutions, or to what private solutions, but certainly the family then begins to function differently, sometimes even at the weekend, in fact, that people can quickly have a domain and then conflicts can be more and also resolve these conflicts more quickly, more superficially, less relaxed and can cause new conflicts. Violence will certainly be prevented in a different way from the law itself. But marriage is one of those things that was necessary. Let me mention here that the bill was drawn up at the end of the second term and then there was no hearing in this government for three years. It was necessary to replace the minister in order to have a hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u45	Thank you very much. However, the text is by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. We have three amendments to Article 1 of the Act. Article 1 speaks of the purpose of marriage, or what violence is in the family, or what the law refers to. It lays down the role of institutions responsible for preventing or addressing violence, while Article 2 also states that other laws are used to prevent domestic violence. In New Slovenia we will support the amendment, which adds the word "task to institutions", not only have a role to play, but they also have tasks, while the other two amendments will not be supported because we think that the family is also children, we do not think they are, but also minors. 2. Article 2 clearly defines who the family members are and especially the fourth refers to children and minors, and those who receive special protection and care are also said to be older, sick, disabled and so on. Let me also say, because of my fellow Member, Mr Drobnič, who feels threatened by the adoption of this law, that this law is far from only for men or those who are preparing for the marriage community and who hesitate because they think they will be threatened with it. This law applies to all those who cause violence, as well as to victims. And there are no men exempt or privileged in this marriage. Violence, whoever causes it, whether it's a woman or a man or a child or an extramarital partner, ex-partners, any violence is unacceptable. We regret, however, that the statistics show that men are mostly bullies in the family. We're sorry there's any violence, including women. We also like the fact that in New Slovenia it is not only about physical violence but also about psychological violence, in order to clearly define sexual violence, but also economic violence and, of course, this neglect. It is also a form of violence that has been sustained many times by older persons, disabled persons, disabled persons, those who may not fit the average of the family. And that's a lot. We believe that the law adequately saves or speaks for less violence, especially for the protection and care of children, not only when they are victims of violence but also when they are witnesses of violence committed by, say, parents or other family members. And certainly, if we take an example from the immediate past when parents killed themselves or the ex - husband killed his wife and then himself and were children of this violence, that it actually left lasting consequences in the children. And if they had not been subjected to this violence, their childhood could have been significantly different. The law also gives special powers to state institutions, local communities, as well as voluntary organisations to address this problem, while at the same time saying that these institutions need to be properly educated, to enable them to meet these tasks. And even when they can act on what protection a victim of violence has, like those who do. We believe that the law is properly regulated or that it will help to reduce this violence and, above all, that there will be no different institutions, from the police, social work centres and so on, that they do not have the authority to reach out to the family. It is most pointless or infertile to deal with violence when it is already caused, when there is no more aid, and this has been a great deal in the past. We, as we say, will at least support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you very much. And I call unto the word the Ambassador Majdo Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u48	Thank you. If the amendments proposed by Mrs Tavševa are supported, the law will not be worse. I think that if we confirm them, they confirm the intent of the law itself, it is also said that children, including minors, are insured as victims and that the measures for them are already laid down in the law. I understand them, and I have no problem with them, because they are essentially underlining only something that the law does further when it gives special protection to children and minors. At the same time, I am pleased that the law also deals not only with the protection of victims, as defined in the article now under discussion, but also about the forms of how to prevent or how, in the case of a violent act, the victim is protected by law, or whether they have tried to protect it, and how to educate the person who causes this violence. And this is important, it is difficult for us to see how this will work in practice. The grounds, however, are extremely delicate living situations, with a lot of tension, tension and sediment, when the police and social services and everyone else, even now that the law is not in place, have great difficulty in acting or regulating not to talk about jobs. It is interesting, however, that we are going back to the beginning today, not in 2004, as you now claim, that the world began as far as this law is concerned, but that you are returning, we are going back to the discussion that was many years ago when this matter was trying to be remedied by legislation, and when the fundamental question was raised, whether we have only a law on the prevention of domestic violence, these are long stories with a beard. Some of you have not followed them at all, so today you can also assign time and solutions to today’s day and to its bearers. Do we possibly need a law that speaks of preventing violence in general, not just in the family? But interestingly, then there was a lot of enthusiasm for preventing violence, in general with the law, I think it's difficult, and focusing on the family is meaningful, because, however, I will not say, the source of the evil violence of the house is to a large extent also or the consequences there are to a greater extent than ever. But what I mean is, it's very interesting that in today's debate this question about the placement or indiscretion of the law is being raised, why, because we already have a law on marriage and family relations. That's enough, or we have enough to go to some prenup, or it's enough to leave things the way they are. I am surprised to see that you all do not agree with this, fortunately, but we are going back, perhaps even because of the bad news he has made, when he has devoted himself in the past, let's say what kind of underwear women should wear, that they should be more fruitful than how they should prevent the victims from being in the space I call the family environment. At the same time, I understand the fear of what violence is. Because, after all, violence on the one hand can also be raised and left over by a journalist or anyone else. But the decision being made in the family was reasonable, logical, after all, the family is changing, and the concern that has been expressed today is how values have disappeared at the expense of some too liberal patterns that apply in our society. The fundamental values on which the family was supposed to stand were expressed as full of concern. True, marriages are becoming less stable. Indeed, in 2004 there were 11⁄23 divorces of all marriages concluded together. If approximately 6550 marriages were concluded, on the other hand, there were 2,400 divorces at the same time. The company is concerned with the role of the family and with what meaningful patterns and assistance or reflections are necessary. Quite so far as this year a German Member proposed to introduce in Germany a form of marriage based on a seven-year contract or agreement where after seven years the marriage would be annulled, terminated and would be extended or not. This decision was not based on thinking about violent acts because they were dealt with at other levels. But as I say, marriage is more than just a matter of thinking about whether pets belong to it or not, it must be perceived as that nucleus, such as that cell, where, if tensions occur, they need to be cured. And yet, this law leaves much room for even reaching into a delicate solution that touches property relationships. I welcome this effort, which has been made here, I believe that the effort is because it interferes with some legal standards that speak of property as one that falls under certain rules. But here is the possibility of not being alienated, but in the case of a carrier of violence, this property is alienated or abandoned for a certain period of time, under certain conditions, which we know is a great reason, precisely because of these material goods, precisely because of the inability to make decisions about dwellings, about the place where violence occurs, but at the same time also offers the possibility of staying, reports violence at all. I won't have a problem with myself if this article is amended in this way. I admit that it will not change by value or by standards nothing gives any message that in the Slovenian space the care of children and minors is so much more important, we see this in the following articles. The role of state authorities, as defined, I think, is clear in the law. However, if we add more tasks, at least from the point of view of our amendment, which follows Article 14, it will be so much more binding, which means that we can also introduce into the law what I will talk about later, which speaks of the need for non-governmental organisations that play within the problem of the rehabilitation and prevention of violence or the resolution of its consequences, to play an exceptional role. These are non-governmental organizations that, in fact, have made a significant shift over the entire problem of violence many years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u49	Thank you very much. However, a fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Zammernik, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In a way, the debate so far has caused me to sign up for the word, because I am a member of the Commission for Petitions and I have come to the attention of the obvious, it has been clear to me that I did not attend a meeting that talked about the fight against violence, about how violence should be suppressed. I've been thinking about the obvious, and I've been thinking about who's the most special person in the last 100 years, say non-violence, compassion, the good in people. Mr. Pece, I didn't have you in mind, even though you showed yourself. I had Teresa's mother in mind. She thinks that the brightest example of non-violence in modern society is on a global scale. Maybe in a smaller one, you too. Even today, when you're so kind, you're leaving the debate. And Mother Teresa, who in one of her quotations said: "When you organize a meeting against the war, don't invite me. I won't be there. But when you organize a meeting for peace, then I will be happy to come." And if we paraphrase this for today's conversation, I must admit that I am in great difficulty attending a session where we speak against violence. I'd be much more happy if we talked about the good. Clearly, it will not be misunderstood, but a law that determines who crosses the border that marks the edge of the court needs to be done and so on. I couldn't agree more. However, I think that the first law, which states that this law defines the concept of domestic violence and provides for the role of the amendment, should also add to the tasks that I can personally agree with, public authorities, public service providers, etc. Where we can place a very important factor, which, in my opinion, still has a bearing on the fact that sometimes in people's heads borders between permissive and unacceptable. Murder, as some of the highest acts of violence, when it happens, our media report this very large and sensational. But it's kind of socially acceptable to us. I spoke about this on behalf of the Group of Members when adopting the Ombudsman's report. I talked about it for 40 minutes. And the television that was supposed to be under our control, after all, took one word out of those 40 minutes of a long speech that I used after the Secretary of State said that the backlogs in the courts would be reduced. I'm not going to do it on purpose today, because someone is going to pull it out of context again, and that's just the point of what I'm trying to say. Essentially more important than this tiny word, which was then "stretched" everywhere, but I thought it was a proposal that we could do ourselves not to speak so socially about these violent acts. That we won't be bombed on every move. Well, as built-in personalities, we can still decide to filter this out so it doesn't go into our brains. How can this be prevented from reaching our children? I suggested a similar action, like the Wind in my hair, with a sport against drugs. Not a word about it. But it gives me some hope, only from some groups of people who wrote down some very nice thoughts and said, "What you said has given us a new hope." And when I thought about what I was saying, I also remembered the research that the daggers did in America. They were wondering why, for God's sake, there are so many murders in America when we're talking about the highest rate of violence. In neighbouring Canada, however, this is significantly less. Why? They found that reports in America were much more violent. That there's almost no such thing in Canada. And that's why, colleagues and colleagues, I have a problem here today, when, unfortunately, I believe that this will be discussed, we are talking about the fight against violence. Please, and I appeal to those of you who will continue to speak, let's talk more about what we will do for each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Barbara Žgijner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you very much. If I've tried to understand these last words of yours, I just can't get past the fact that says to me, "Closed eyes don't see evil." Therefore, I say that it is necessary to open our eyes and discuss the problems that we face in our society, the problems, the problems that are reflected, and even though they are individual beings, someone who, I will say, is difficult for us to put into his role when he is a victim of violence, because we simply cannot feel what he feels when he is a victim of violence. But if we were at least a little more sensitive, then I believe we could hear stories, and one of your client colleagues told the story. I'll afford another girl who says, "When I was little, I loved singing. Ever since this abuse occurred, I've been completely silent and wearing my head slightly girdled." You know, at least a little bit of the sensitivity of each individual, each of us 90 Members, we will be able to take substantial steps in the area under our auspices, which is undoubtedly legislation. Well, it's not just legislation. I believe that each of us is also a kind of moral authority. And if we're going to talk about zero tolerance to violence, then believe me, we can help a lot of society. Even if we are able to make this move in the field of legislation, the victims of violence will also be legally protected. If they are legally protected, then the authorities responsible under the law will have to act to protect the victim, to respond, to help the victim. I'll go back to that other amendment that makes a lot of trouble for a lot of people. This is to add three, four words "children and minors" to Article 1 (1). I say that if we put this in Article 1 which speaks of the purpose of the law, some general article, if we add "children and minors", this means that under the entire law which speaks of the prevention of domestic violence, there is a fundamental law in this area. So far there has been a big hole in the Republic of Slovenia in this area, nothing else. If we added those words under Article 1, we would give special weight to the care of children. Children are the only group in our country that doesn't have its own district law. We don't have a law on protecting or protecting children. We have an animal protection law. Someone had previously compared or mentioned that animals are also a family member. If children were to be enrolled under Article 1, then animals should also be given, since animals, after all, may be victims of domestic violence. But we cannot, when we talk about the law on the prevention of domestic violence, resort to such interpretations. Animals have their own marriage, children don't have it in our country. When I listened to the discussions or the results of the project to which Europe had joined the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe last week, on Friday, within the Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We're building a Europe with and for children. I was so hurt because Slovenia is on the clear bottom. Since Romania has been able to boast of projects that the Parliament has a special committee that specifically protects children's rights because Croatia even has regional or parish assistance to children because even Russia has this area regulated, Greece, not to mention further. Slovenia does not want to admit today that the most vulnerable groups of people are the children who need the most protection because they are the most vulnerable when we adopt a law on the prevention of domestic violence. And so much the more surprised or I'll say, I'm appalled at the words, especially if they come from the mouth of women. I believe that we women are somehow more inclined or, at least by our nature, might be more sensitive to this problem. When they say no. Kids don't. First the women, then the children. Children can't be mini-humans with mini-rights. They deserve equal protection, equal rights, or more. They deserve more protection because they're more vulnerable. Women were involved in the drafting of this law, and children were not involved. Who in our country will take into account the voice, wishes, and needs of children? I don't mean these things. I am not speaking because I would like to be demagogous at this time, but I am speaking because this is a reality that Europe is aware of, the European Union, which we are not yet aware of to a large extent in our country. And you know when some of you refer to Article 4; have you read Article 4? Article 4 in the first paragraph speaks, and please listen carefully to me; "Special protection against violence is enjoyed by a minor family member." So, kids. Such special protection is not defined in this law. It is defined in the law on marriage and family relations that under this law a child must be given special care, security, etc. But here, for example, the United Nations Convention on the Protection of Children is not taken into account. It goes on to say, in the second paragraph: ".... the child is a victim of violence even if he is present in the commission of violence against another family member or lives in an environment where violence is committed". That's right. But we can't get any further from here. And the third article, which speaks of special care in dealing with violence and offering assistance to victims, does not refer to children. As if children are not a group of people who deserve to be in the framework of the law, we are talking about a law that deserves special care in dealing with violence and offering assistance. It's not in the marriage. Old people, older people, are written in the law. Yes, they certainly need special care and help if they are victims of violence. Disabled people. This is also a group of people who need special attention from society. But I say children are also an important category of people in our country. So much more because they don't have an official level at the state level of one agent to defend their rights on their behalf. They don't. We are talking about European international projects, equal opportunities, equal opportunities. But we all talk only about equalizing the opportunities of women and men, disabled people, sexually oriented partners or persons. Children and their rights are constantly being released from this context. Once again, it's not fair and above all it's not good, it's not good to build on, I'll say, because children are kind of mini people, they deserve mini rights. Therefore, if this amendment is adopted, this does not mean that only children deserve some special care under this law, far from it, but it is true that if this amendment is adopted, we will give special weight and value to children and young people within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Given that there is an additional desire to discuss the content of the law mentioned above, I will once again open the possibility of applying. Here you go, please. My colleague Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! For seven years now, I have been Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs and everywhere we go around the world, because every six months, leadership changes, I always hear, it is good that we are talking. Democracy is speech, exchange of views and acceptance of the best. And I am sure that all three amendments to Article 1 have been prepared by colleague Barbara Žgajner, whom I have known for many years, and I know that she is not only professionally qualified, but also living with the content that they are actually the core of which we are right to speak, but of which we should not have any doubts. I would very much like to illustrate with an old story, which you all know well, what it means to say, what it means to write something, in which case I emphasize, to write a child, especially children and minors. This is the most important element, whether taken from the first amendment or from the third. I'll give you a comparison. When the king once sent letters for a person and wrote, "Kill no, pardon me!" But the writer made a mistake, and he wrote, "Kill, not pardon!" But it was written down. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I am convinced that it is good and right to exchange our views that we are speaking, but I am most confident that any content or first or second or third amendment to Article 1 or the first and third amendments should be adopted. For it is never enough to write and law and speak and care for children and minors. That's right. We have heard that in the statistical reports it is men who cause violence. But we're not talking about the penal code today. It's true that most women are victims of this violence. But there is nowhere so far, as a respected colleague has said, to provide legal protection for children and minors. Or too little. These are the people who are traumatized through life who grow up and with this experience of life go into total contradiction or repeat the stories that are happening. Every morning, I believe, because you are conscientious workers in this House, we listen to reports from police stations saying: Last night, 47-year-old men provoked domestic violence and we had to act. Every day. It is not infertile to speak of this law and even less infertile to speak of the proposed amendments. And forget it says in front that they're SNS proponents. Read the contents instead. Children and minors are the ones who are disappearing and disappearing. In December, Slovenia ranked 3rd or 4th after attempted suicides or suicides or the despondency of people. Unfortunately, these are statistics that come as a result of the fact that, as colleague Barbara said, we do not have sufficiently defined and clearly in the entire legislation, who and in what way is responsible for caring for children and minors. I think that the content of the proposed amendments is a good subject for discussion, but I am sure that there is no doubt at all on the left, not on the right, not in the middle, that what these amendments say is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you. I must admit, however, that I will not change my position on the proposed amendments, even though the debate went well at the level of very emotional emphasis. And it may also be a mistake to come up with a flat-rate judgment that has no coverage in the documents. I particularly stress Article 56 of the Constitution, which speaks of children's rights. It is impossible to say that children are not legally protected. The conventions are also signed, which bind the country. Now, if Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš wishes to have this specifically recorded in Article 1 of this Law, it is her right and her business. But to say that we do not know how to read legal provisions and that there is no coverage in Article 4 is an interpretation that I cannot accept. If you read Article 56 of the Constitution, there is talk of special protection and special care. And this dictatorship was also given a place in Article 4. Especially. And if you read your amendment, Mrs. Tavš, along with the text you have tabled "Actions for the Protection of Victims of Violence in the Family, Especially Children and Juveniles", this supplement does not say anything more concrete than what is stated in Article 4 of the Act in the first paragraph, and then the second paragraph is added that "the child of the victim of violence is only present" and just adds what is very important and which is also written in Article 3 that even neglect is recorded. And neglect goes mainly to two categories, after the age of very specific persons - this is the child and the elderly. And it is right that neglect in this context is mentioned. However, whoever misses the word "child" in the definition of family members, I must say that it is actually difficult to deal with it, but the facts are such that blood relatives in a flat line in both directions cause violence. Not only parents over children, but also children over parents. Both are regrettable and it is right that this is the case in the law for the definition of family members. I say so at the end, all the time and glory to the efforts of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, but as one who knows little about the language and who reads little, even if this is the legal text, I insist in my position that this amendment, if this amendment is not supported and this amendment is not adopted, the law will therefore be no worse and the children will therefore be no worse protected under this law. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica, Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I understand and believe that even without aggressive performances, there is much to explain. Look, I can read the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is a general act, a general act which stipulates that the area of children's rights, protection against violence, also lays down a special law. The law, which is the first in our country to protect society from violence, family, we are talking today. The international conventions should be implemented into Slovenian legislation. That's a fact. They do not apply if they are not implemented, simply a fact. Therefore, I say, the marriage will not be worse, nor will it be better if this amendment is not accepted. However, I say it would be fair to give children special weight under the legislation. That's the whole point of this amendment. I'm gonna ask you one more time. Think about it. We will not make the law worse, nor will we make it better. We will give special weight in Slovenian legislation to children and their rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Member Slavko Gaber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I understand today's debate and, to a greater extent, the law as a suitable sign, on the basis of which it can be concluded that Slovenia is moving forward. It is obvious that in Slovenia we are able to think seriously about internal contradictions, including conflicts of institutions that are very important for this place, not only for ours, but also for this place. We can recognize that with what is good, even beautiful, pleasant in families, families also carry a lot of traps, including violence. When it comes to it, when we fail to act preventively in such a way that it is smaller or that we do not reach it, it is also necessary to regulate matters by reaching out to the various institutions of this country in this area. We will probably upgrade the law several times because the beginning of work in this area is a special law. Anyone who does not change knows that far from the beginning of these issues is what we are dealing with. I will support another supplement that adds tasks to the role of state authorities, if I put it mildly simplistic. It seems to me that this record is meaningful and necessary. The boundaries between permissive and inadmissible will change with the law. It is not acceptable and unacceptable in societies that centuries ago, millenniums ago, has been determined and remains so. Borders are changing in normal societies. As the belief grows that it is necessary to take care of different people, for all who come into the field in one way or another, to be subjected to violence of different forms, the more this consciousness grows, the easier we will look each other in the eyes, the greater the level of uplifting in the spaces. I would also, I admit, support the text of the first addendum to this Article if I did not have a problem that is very simple. When I read it together with Article 4, I feel that in one part, in a very important part, it repeats the content that is written there, and in some way is also delaying the basic message of the law in Article 1. I myself understand the writing of laws by making the articles less clear what is stated above specifically regulate the specifics. If it were to be added to, for example, the word now written, "protection", and the word "care," then this would be perhaps referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, of the first paragraph of Article 4. Perhaps someone can arrange for this to happen in some appropriate form, if not now, some other time. Otherwise, violence is that type of behavior that needs to be stopped when it comes to it, especially because it is not only done by people who are bad at themselves, as one of my colleagues has discussed here today. In the field of violence we all descend, the question is just how often and when someone is able to admit it and when he can withdraw and how much control we have. I support the law, but I will also support this other supplement. I would also support the supplement in Article 4 if it were written there that protection was also a special concern for children.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u61	Your Honor, if you'll excuse me for a moment. Is one of the Members and Members present opposed to extending the time declared for discussion to the Government, i.e. the Minister? The fact is, the government only has five minutes. However, the Minister would like to actively participate in the debate. Who's opposed to the proposal to give the Ministry 30 minutes to discuss? [[Nobody.]] This means that the Ministry of Education has 30 minutes at its disposal. Madam Secretary, you will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. It seems important to me to explain and explain this first article, which has been in the debate for quite some time. This law gives special protection to the child and would not now repeat Article 2 or Article 4 but would refer to the following articles, where we have forgotten the articles where special child protection is also provided. That's Article 6. In the event of a complaint of suspicion that the child is a victim of a crime, special protection shall be provided by informing the Centre for Social Work, the Prosecutor's Office or the police in such a case. Article 9 also gives special protection to the child and to the rights of the child, parents, caregivers, foster parents and foster parents are obliged to protect the child from exposure to the public. Article 19 also provides for special protection for the victim to leave the apartment in order to prevent violence between spouses and violence against children. Thus, in the following articles, special protection is given to the child below. In particular, the purpose of the law was to protect the child and his rights and to protect him from violence. I would particularly mention this interpretation of children and minors. It was also explained that this concept stems from legal terminology, including the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child up to the age of 18, and there is no particular need to separate a child from a youth. And we also use this terminology in the Law on Marriage, Family Relations and also in the following. Thus, we believe that the child’s benefits are sufficiently effectively mentioned in the law. In particular, I would stress that we support the amendment, which sets out in particular the tasks of the state authorities. In addition to the role of the mission. So much for Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. When we talk about what is good enough for a child, effective enough, it seems to me that it is never good enough for a child and effective enough, let alone that there is too much. But I will begin at the beginning, and I hope that you will all take into account what our country's roofing legal material says, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 56, second paragraph: "Children shall be given special protection against economic, social, physical, mental and other exploitation and abuse." Such protection is governed by the law. Not animals, children. But there is no such law in this country. Rompomp happened when there was no law on so-called or by your appointed Romani community. There's no Rompom when we're talking about kids. In my opinion, the child is the greatest success of every family, the greatest thing that can happen in a family, and the greatest thing that needs to be protected in every family. Therefore, I do not understand that one of the Members may say that if the word "children" had been introduced in Article 1 concerning the purpose of the law, it would have caused something too much, it would have been too widespread. When we talk about children, nothing is too widespread, but it's always too small. When someone talks about values, he comes from the Slovenian Democratic Party and talks between the lines about the importance of the Church, about how it affects the homogeneity of the family, please, where the most paedophiles were! We're protecting children, not talking about this homogeneity, please! Speaking of which, the family therapy concession was awarded to the French Institute. Is there any logic here? I don't think so. According to all the data from the media and statistics, this institution is the one that carries out the worst, most terrible and most heinous violence against children when we talk about the Church. Like I said, a child is the weakest part of the family. A child can't defend himself. Kid, speaking of physical violence, he can't hit back. Everyone else, as one of my colleagues said, we're already made personalities. And these kids are "make" parents, we want to admit it or not. We're the parents we make. And no word "child" in a marriage can be too much when we're talking about protecting this weakest article. And when someone - here I have a magnetogram of one of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which says that on the one hand, family members are also small animals, pets. But pets have long since had their marriage, when we must not torture them, how we must watch them, how we must worship them and "cartify them". What about the kids? Finally, he says, "that the law governs children's rights sufficiently because it is mentioned in Articles 4, 6 and 6." If the child were mentioned in every article, it would be too little, and according to yours, for God's sake, if you will. Both men and women are made personalities and children are not. And when someone says that marriage is a law-abiding marriage. I agree with the marriage, but this law only dictates what two people should do, the etiquette of what an idyllic family should look like without sanctions. Without any sanctions for domestic violence, I will therefore gladly support the amendments, wherever the word of the children and the protection of the children are mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Bones, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think the law we're talking about today is definitely necessary. It is one step, I hope, towards a more comprehensive treatment of the family than I hope there is no doubt, the most important community in society. However, if there is doubt here, then this law will in fact not solve much, except by sanctioning what has already broken down or by continuing a broken relationship and is usually the result of domestic violence. It seems very important to me that, when this law is apparently adopted, we continue to look for more systemic reasons why domestic violence is occurring. We know that the causes are very different and that often the victims of other matters are those who then commit violence. Without addressing the causes, we will not solve this problem in the long term and more broadly simply by means of this law. It certainly seems to me that our society should systematically support the classical family in its existence, in its operation and also in its ability to stimulate it when it works well. And I am sure that the family in Slovenia generally works well, but in fact it has a worse status than it would have been. For this encouragement to the family as such in all areas, we can certainly do the most to reduce the problem of domestic violence, while also addressing the issue raised by this amendment, that children and minors should be specifically protected. I'm sure the children are like immature fruit on a tree and we can't isolate immature fruit separately from the tree and especially protect it if we tear it apart. Therefore, the matter must be dealt with in full here. As I said, for me, the only best way to provide a proper environment for children is to encourage the family. What is good in families is more supportive. Today, classical families, those who decide for a few more children, are being punished in our society, are deprived, definitely. And I think there is also a need to intervene in other areas and encourage and reward, reward those classical families that offer children a healthy environment. A positive relationship between spouses should be encouraged. Even today's debate is not exactly the best idea if I sum it up as a dialogue that is supposed to take place in a family between those two who actually have a responsibility to take care of children. That is why I also encourage all of us to be as constructive as possible, to try in the arguments that we are trying to find as much good as possible for further legislation that I hope will be prepared, at least so I have seen in the preparation of the family code, which I think is very necessary. It should be accepted as soon as possible. And then, like I said, in other areas. Also in the field of education, stressing the family, especially the role of teachers, parents. Our parents are busy in the afternoon and evening with the role of teacher. We're getting more and more expensive. And this also contributes to the poor climate in the family, and often uncontrolled reactions are also due to such a situation. I wouldn't blame anyone here, but our case went down. Children go to high school all weekend. This also means one such bad atmosphere. The family doesn't have time for themselves anymore. We support projects during vacations when children are isolated from the family are invited to the sea, which may be a good purpose, but this does not help to improve the atmosphere in a preventive sense regarding what we are saying today. However, I would like to highlight something from today's debate. It does not seem appropriate for children to be considered as marketable goods for political marketing of any political option. I think that's unacceptable. This does not serve the children in the final stage either. And what we will do for the family, we will definitely do for the children and the young. Even those who worked in education know that there are real differences between children who come from such or different families. And here we have to try and overcome this, sometimes a little too up-to-date thought that the classic family is no longer a model to move away from in modern society. I think that the classic family is still the most proven healthy environment for children and even for us, even for adults. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will support the third amendment to Article 1 of the Slovenian National Party, because it certainly makes sense to me. However, I will not support the first and second amendments as well as the Slovenian National Party, because I believe that the special protection and care of children is clearly defined in Article 4. But I agree here that something can also be said in a less grave and less impatient way. Even if we are talking today about the issue of how to prevent domestic violence. I agree that children are the most vulnerable part of this society and must be protected in particular. But I cannot agree with some who say that this law does not follow. I am sure that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has made it clear, and this law itself certainly follows in particular the protection of children and adolescents and of course all others who are victims of violence. I must say, I am very pleased that this Government has decided to finally implement this Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. Because unfortunately, in the past, there may have been a lack of will to actually accept it. There's been a lot of talk about it. The law was not adopted and it is certainly commendable and also responsible by the Ministry. For we must not keep our eyes closed that this is not the problem of this society. It's a problem. Otherwise, it usually takes place behind four walls. But this law, I am sure, is precisely because of this adoption, will be able to allow, in particular, to alert people to these things in society, to prevent, as far as violence is concerned, and in particular to sensitise people in this area. Not only does violence happen in the family, but it also spreads in society. What really bothers me is that Slovenia does not have enough research in this area. We come mainly from foreign research, where it is determined that - which is interesting and important - violence has been committed on every fifth woman for at least once in her life. So it's a victim of violence. Of course, violence doesn't just happen to women. It's also happening over men. In a conversation with representatives of Amnesty International, it was expressed that most of the violence against men is committed by their mothers. That's kind of interesting. But what's interesting is that women are also violent. This, however, appears mostly to be violence against children in smaller percentages. Any violence is unacceptable, unacceptable, and certainly for life is marked by both the victim and the one who commits or causes some kind of violence. And that is why it is commendable that NGOs in their programmes also allow those who commit violence to talk to one another. Therefore, I will continue to support the amendment to Article 10a, which adds that it is necessary to provide financial and other resources for the functioning of NGOs dealing with this issue. In the end, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have been mentioned members of the Commission for petitions by the President of the Commission for petitions, since we do not have or have not been sufficiently aware of certain tasks as members of the Commission, that we have not attended certain events. I think that before you point your finger at the other one, sometimes you have to clean up before you even get to your own doorstep. If I'm not mistaken, we had a celebration Monday on Human Rights Day, and unfortunately I didn't see the chairman of the commission there, and I think it might be good, because the celebration was meant for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u69	Mrs. Irgle, that's a long way from the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u70	serious human rights violations. [[...]] Yes, look, Mr. President! Before, the chairman didn't interrupt anyone when they spoke. I'll hold on to that. But I still don't think that was right. But if others pointed to us, I also wanted to point out that there are sometimes some irregularities on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else want to know about Article 1 and the amendments to this article? Mr. Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I'm going to start by being sad that we have to adopt this law in the National Assembly today. Sadly, the situation in our society, as well as in the family, makes it necessary to adopt a law. I must say, if at least in some families under this law it will be easier, less violence, the purpose of the law will be achieved. The best moments of life usually take place in the family. And even the worst hell in human life often happens in the family. I wonder, why is that? Why is there so much violence, not only in the family, but in society in general? Why don't people listen to each other? Why aren't we listening, why aren't we hearing each other? As for the family, I think it's very important for people to get married, to get married, to have children, to be properly prepared to go to school. For each profession it takes a series of years of education, a series of years of education. It's just for the husband, the wife, the father, and the mother, we don't think there's anything we need to do to make this come to pass. There are a lot of things that come to mind. All samples from their own families are transmitted, and violence is also tolerated. My wife and I went to marriage school for three years. I have to tell you, there are a lot of things I've learned out there that I certainly would never know in my life. And if we make arrangements for young people to prepare themselves for this profession of husband, wife, and parent, violence in the family will be much less. As far as this amendment is concerned, that's all I'm gonna say. For me, children are part of the family. And if we're talking about a family - I'm thinking about a father, a mother and a child here. No article here is exempt. However, I cannot agree with some who previously said that some animals are members of the family. I have to say that I'm really tough on this because I still separate what man is, what an animal is. And the last thing I want to say is that the institutions that are envisaged in the law to help solve violence, the real centres for social work and the police, will take on very difficult tasks by law. In fact, each individual will need to be looked after here, whether he is suitable for such work or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Any other interest in Article 1 and the amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude Article 1. We are moving on to the debate on Article 10a and the amendment of the LDS, NSI and SLS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm concluding. And we are moving on to Article 10b and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Mrs. Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that I will support both amendments to Article 10. And I would be happy if it ever happened again that we could support joint efforts to create a law to make the marriage better and overcome the barriers to political distinction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the debate on Article 14 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u76	Satisfaction was expressed over this amendment, which would change paragraphs 10a and 10.b. I understand you'll all support him. Of course, I don't have any problems myself. Especially with the second amendment. 10.b Article referring to the amendment of the joint action plan for a two-year period. But Article 14 is an essential upgrade to what you will support with Articles 10a and 10.b. In fact, if you have just said, colleague Potrata, and also Ms Irgla's earlier, that you agree to be added to Article 10, which speaks of the national programme we have put in place within the home working committee, it is said that the tasks of the national programme are also accompanied by care for the functioning of non-governmental organisations. It is said that it strengthens them to identify them and that the national programme also identifies the financial implications of NGOs. I would like to point out that this is a plan that is supposed to be monitored in a long-term act defining Slovenia's visa of domestic violence, written and, of course, as a result, at least within the reports that we will receive or receive from the National Assembly when the implementation of the national programme is reported. Article 14 is that article, which is kind of native to NGOs. Your goodwill, expressed in support of the changes in the tasks and descriptions of this national programme, will be confirmed only after the commitment to co-finance NGOs is implemented in Article 14. In fact, Article 14 deals with NGOs. And what we want is that the means to carry out the activities of NGOs are provided in the state budget, as proposed by the Ministry. This is the commitment that is no longer a general smoothing of the deadlines when something is recorded in the national programme as a provision. Support for Article 14 and amendment, but when the Ministry or Government commits itself to providing funds in the budget to non-governmental organisations, it would be, I will say, an honest recognition of support to non-governmental organisations. And I hope that happens. Otherwise, I'll understand that all the nice words may be a little double-faced. Let me remind you that NGOs in the field of violence have done a lot of work in the past, even in those days when you were still very young. This is why you cannot know the materials, because obviously not everyone is on the table somehow and you would also know that in Slovenia a lot of research was done in Slovenian as well. We are not relying solely on or merely on the knowledge of other countries. But it's "fine" to have this comparison. But non-governmental organisations are defined by law as important agents of the recovery of the issue of violence as those involved in the whole process, which is also defined in this law within the action plan by national programme and duties, especially the important obligations in the notification and treatment of acts of violence. There are some of them in Slovenia. From the Association for Non-Violent Communication, from the Centre for the Assistance of Victims of Crime, from the Eavoda EME, the Society for Women's Counselling, the Association against Sexual Abuse, to the Administrative and Information Centre, the Advisory Centre for Children and Adolescents and Elders, which are in Ljubljana, Maribor and also in Cyprus and so on, the Society for Life without Violence, the SOS Phone for Women and Children, the Institute for Youth Assistance, the Society Key and so on and so on. I certainly didn't list them all. They have and have over the years developed their mechanisms, their ways. Some are also supported with the assistance of the State, the subsidies they receive within programmes and calls for proposals. But if we don't commit to it, then it means in law that we can leave this to the good will of every single ministry or optional planning of these funds. I would appeal to support this amendment. Of course, I will also support in Article 10 the amendment that speaks of the inclusion of this non-governmental sector in the national programme in the action programme. However, when we talk about integration into life, it would make sense to make this commitment, which this law refers to, in the face of a budget where it usually ends and with funding. In short, if this is the case, it will be significantly more perfect. But I am very open to supporting all the changes. If I touch only those who are still in this review because the articles are closed, we have not talked. I must say that I am also thrilled by the amendment that is being made in Article 6, which the Minister has already mentioned today in the context of child protection. Let's say in another very subtle question, which is essentially as dangerous or as extraordinary as what we talked about today, when it comes to a case where the victim will be able to ask the court to leave the apartment if it is not the owner of the apartment. It's such a bold change. At the same time, let me say that there is another such bold change that may interfere with the regulation that we have within our legislation in Article 6, which speaks of everyone as being everyone, especially those professional workers or health workers, as well as staff in educational and educational institutions, that everyone must do so irrespective of, even the provisions on the protection of professional secrecy. This is some progress that is very important. We know how professional secrecy is protected or, in another context, the secret of a spiritual person who has to, but here we do not deal with it because he has to keep certain information in his knowledge. We know how to protect the source of the journalist and how delicate the situations where the profession has to maintain its secrecy are. This is where we go further. And we say, if the importance and benefit of someone else is greater than the protection of professional secrecy, you have to make an exception here. This is an interesting solution that I welcome, although I must admit that in Article 6 - and we have opened it many times - there is still one problem for me. But I'm sure practice will tell you whether he's saved or not. This is the famous first paragraph, which is basically the key to the whole marriage. When does the victim, or violent act, turn him in, and in what way? Here I know you've had a lot of questions. Who is it? What range do we leave? Can we give just one person the right to report this or can all be on average? You have solved the situation by saying that NGOs, all the bodies involved in this work and seeing such circumstances as may make it possible to conclude that this is a case of violence, are obliged to inform the centres for social work. They're in debt. But here's some notions of my not being the best thing to solve. But I understand she's a pain in the ass. Unless the victim expressly opposes it. Not in cases where there is a suspicion of a criminal service pursuing an official duty. Here's the main problem at the personal level. It's clear that the victim will repeatedly object to the application because she'll say, as I said hours ago, if I report it, I'll be even more beaten. That's the problem. You might be able to solve this in other laws. I'm sorry. I repeat today, Minister, you already have the draft Social Protection Act written. I think it's another summer version. You've come a long way. And it would be nice if we really met in the package with this law, the criminal code, the amendment of the Penal Code, the amendment of the Family Relations and Family Relations Act, as well as the family code, which would certainly be easier to resolve these issues, which you can't all here. I am aware that the ways to resolve these laws are good. Especially within the Penal Code, where cases are said to be introduced, the prosecution of the offender should refer to educational programmes when he has a probationary sentence. And if he has a conditional conviction, he must - and does not respect it, not be able to educate or study or seek assistance from therapists and assistants - have to turn the probation penalty into prison and so on. In short, the whole package is required. But we all know that certain things can't be done overnight. Once again, today this law, which is here, did not begin with a year of nothing, with the year 2004. After all, we can also thank the former Ombudsman at this point today. He once had a special report on this subject, Mr Hanžek. Such an unpopular Mr. Hanžek has put so much effort into violence against children. In fact, the Special Report has brought one working group which has identified all the government's work areas where it has found benchmarks and measures. In short, the analysis is always necessary for the drafting of laws. State-of-the-art detection, recognition of symptoms in society, and search for a tool to remedy symptoms. And I admit it wasn't easy here. Therefore, it would be even better if we were already a little overbearing at this point in time to complete the package with three or four more laws. But - let's say - this is our goal, which must be understandable in partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. When I expressed my support for the amendments to Article 10, I tried to say briefly what I had to say when preparing this law, however, in some way confirmed that when problems are acute, we also know how to solve them together, and then it can happen that some thing is not exactly written. At least the amendment to Article 10b is such that it is more editorial than substantive. But the amendment to Article 14, which I would now like to talk about, has really complemented what we have accepted with the amendment to Article 10a, where we have talked about providing financial resources, because this is also for the functioning of NGOs. And when I express my support for the amendment to Article 14, which would complement the text by making it binding or by making it possible to calculate by means of a State budget activity at the level determined by the Minister responsible for work, family and social affairs, this amendment provides a stable source of funding for the work of non-governmental organisations. The distribution will continue to follow calls as it must when it comes to public funds. But in doing so, I would like to draw attention to another aspect of the work of NGOs, who may see problems from their own practice. In particular, where non-governmental organisations are composed of members or members who face a problem. Well, here's a colleague of Shirca, for example, I don't think I've heard before, not to mention a non-governmental organization called the Vision Society, which deals with a particular type of violence against disabled women. And it is to them that I think how they could have been aware that they did not require a specific designation in Article 1 because they were in the dictatorship of Article 1. However, they also warned our Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities that they would want to be successful on calls when they wanted to establish a special safe house for disabled women, victims of domestic violence. One can say that such a safe house is possible, or when we talk about integration in society, but we do not have the safe houses that have been adapted for disabled women. That's the problem. But what's important is that we know the problem. I'm not going to appeal for a special safe house. I would be most pleased that we should not have safe houses in this country at all if it were carried out so that the cause of violence would be one that would always be removed from the environment and would allow victims to live in their own environment. But that's just the way life is. Solutions aren't always ideal. It is true, however, that in the case of violence, the speed of action is right to protect the victim from violence. Most importantly, then, there must be some solutions that cannot be put in place as follows. Let's just say that I recently read this information that a safe house should be installed on 7,000 people. I don't know what that would mean next and how big the facility is. But it can't be the only solution. It is good, however, that in the law that speaks about preventing domestic violence, we will also provide a solid financial source for the functioning of NGOs, which were in fact the first in our society, which also collected some statistics to monitor the phenomenon. And now it is probably not a special competition to mention all those who have contributed in any way. I think that the purpose of this law is to connect all those who come in contact with victims or causers in any way, to determine their obligations and to infect them to the very least possible extent. As it is said, I see the amendment to Article 14 in a similar way as I saw yesterday's amendment to the Patient Rights Act, where it has also been proposed to incorporate a guarantee into the law to finance specific NGOs. I say this in particular because, as far as I know, an agreement between NGOs and between the Government has not yet been concluded. I don't know if there's any other type of arrangement or conclusion on the way. But it would be a good thing to find a place in the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Because I don't have much time, just for a little while. I think it makes sense to support this amendment, purely for practical reasons. Finally, I will remind you of the situation in the field of family helpers. If a State prescribes a task in the law, it is also necessary to provide a permanent source of funding. This was also pointed out by the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly, which simply says, if it is the execution of government tasks and in this case it is. Article 14 lays down the tasks of non-governmental organisations as a complement to the public network. Therefore, it would make sense in the law to say that I will also provide a permanent source of funding. Finally, we know the budget solutions when a new item is added and it is written that the funds are provided on the basis of this and this law. This is, in my opinion, a very meaningful solution. Also to avoid any further confusion or amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Look, since we have given the representative of the motioner extra time in this case to the Minister, it is nevertheless good that Mrs Minister, on the question followed by this amendment, she should be informed. Now, the concept of this law is strongly attached to the mission of NGOs. And that's what we want. That's what we want from practice. A number of arguments were put forward on the committee, and then on the issue of funding. We came mainly from some arguments by the Vision Society. To this end, we also somehow wanted Article 14 to remain somewhat open, so that if the possibility remains to be met on the issue of financing, it can also be found on the prey. Given that the amount of funds needed to be allocated to the participation of NGOs for the purposes of this law is a kind of discretionary right of the Minister. It does not matter how certain security is embedded in this amendment so that it cannot go into some misuse of the necessary fund. I would certainly like the Minister, if anything, to provide an insight or information on how the system of financing government organisations or their involvement in this law is resolved on this issue. Are there already existing items in the Ministry of Field Affairs, which are empty on the basis of calls for proposals or whatever? However, it is necessary to take a position on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u83	Thank you. Madam Secretary, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. This is an important article that speaks, or amendment that proposes funding from the state budget. I must explain that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already funded preventive and rehabilitation programmes in the framework of public calls, complementary social protection programmes and family support programmes that support or finance programmes of non-governmental organisations operating in the field of violence. To this end, the Ministry is financed at EUR 4 million 643,000 and financed. The largest part, of course, belongs to NGOs, which play a very important and complementary role by other bodies and organisations and provide, in particular, accommodation in safe houses, in maternity homes and also carry out preventive programmes and rehabilitation work with the cause of violence. We need to know that this Law on the Prevention of Violence does not lay down new tasks or programmes of NGOs. These are programmes already under way within NGOs. It doesn't specify a new assignment either. These are the tasks already performed by NGOs. In any case, funding is provided for NGOs through programmes or calls for such complementary programmes. Programmes funded in the area - as I said - help non-governmental organisations to stay in shelters, maternity homes and safe houses, as well as co-financing of EUR 338,403 and safe houses amounting to EUR 636,000. By providing for or earmarking special funds for NGOs, the Ministry is aware of the important complementary role they play in persuading domestic violence in parallel with other authorities and organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 14? No, no, no. We then turn to the debate on Article 16 and the three amendments of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you very much again for your word. This time, too, I will ask your respectable colleagues for their support. Allow me, I will focus only on the amendment, written under order number 3, because I hope that at least this amendment will be supported and will complement, according to my assessment, a lack of detailed dictatorship within the framework of Article 16. The law in Article 16 also refers to the so-called abuse that the perpetrator may commit or do by e-mail. These, by the way, are the so-called remote media. The law does not specifically mention the internet or such media space. Therefore, what we are proposing in the Slovenian National Party is that this is explicitly recorded. It is said that under Article 16, "the protection of a potential victim against Internet abuse or violence" is added. If you have read your explanation, it is simply that a court may, by law, if the amendment is adopted, explicitly prohibit the perpetrator from using or performing all personal data of the victim, judicial files and personal records on the global network, thereby effectively causing further harm to the victim if we do not have it recorded in the law. It is simply a matter of supplementing Article 16 with a clearer dictatorship, which is aimed at greater protection of the victim even against so-called Internet violence. And I'll give you a case from practice. It happens that the perpetrator, who is convicted of being convicted, uses personal data in his liberty, uses even the paintings, the imagery of the victim. This victim is completely unprotected. She has no legal basis to exercise her right. If we accept this amendment, it gives the legal basis for the victim to exercise his right, not least the authorities responsible in our country, to help the victim protect her, if you want, integrity or name.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u88	The Government supports the third amendment to Article 16 by adding a new b point instead of a comma in the second paragraph of Article 16.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič - cancels. Anyone else want to talk about Article 16? Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm glad I also heard the government's support for this third amendment. Because that's what I think is necessary. Members and Members of Parliament, the addresses of all Members and Members of Parliament have received an appeal from experts dealing with the issues of abuse of persons, and this appeal has focused on the experience I think colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš spoke about. If we go any further, we should say that we will also deal with such things at the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, which we want to deal with at the principal level. But not to cause the person who, as a victim, is secondly at the heart of media attention to cause additional pain, stigmatization and victimization, so to speak. Therefore, I feel that it is essential that this protection or supplement be incorporated into this law. Just as I think it's necessary to think about the revisions to the Media Act, where the dissemination of images across the network should either be done with pornographic content or with videos linking to child abuse in order to try to instill these things in some way. I don't know if it will be possible to prevent them for the future completely, but to sanction them, because I think it is essential that we also incorporate such ways, if we mention them, that it is possible to build measures on them, and from the crimes to the crimes of abuse that we are witnessing to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to Article 31th and the amendment of the Zares Group. Anybody? [[No, no, ……]] Yes, Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u92	There's no such thing as too much philosophy here. It is only that the time limit provided for by the law for the national programme to be submitted for consideration in the National Assembly for a period of one year, as now laid down in the law, is reduced to six months. Furthermore, the sub-laws provided for in Article 32 would have been reduced to six months from the date of the date. I understand it's a big deal. But at the same time, I know that there are more or less hot debates, with so many communication links and yet visions, where there are no serious differences in society, but to do so sooner than you have planned. Also because of the fact that marriage would otherwise have been very late. 2008, 2009 may be too long to wait for him to live with a full lung. Some have calculated to reach some places by 2010. Besides, I don't think it's that bad. But too much. And I doubt that this commitment could be abandoned because the will and principles have been more or less unified now, so that greater coordination, which is usually necessary for the preparation of the national programme, is not necessary. At the same time, you will also have other laws somehow conceptually together, so that they will not be difficult to include in such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The law will be able to be implemented without delay, irrespective of the time limit when the sub-laws and the national programme are to be annexed. National programmes and sub-legislative acts must be prepared in a qualitative and professional manner. That's why we want time. It's the longest time and it's actually set. Of course, we will make sure that both the national programme and the sub-legislative acts are prepared first. And we will also appeal to other competent ministries to prepare this first. But I think this is a real time, a year. However, we will make sure that both the national programme and the sub-legislative acts are prepared earlier. I know you'll say the presidency is an excuse. However, at the time of the presidency, it will be from our Ministry of Professional Affairs in Brussels and Geneva, because we are also covering matters from the UN. So we actually set time for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I put to the debate one last, this is Article 32 and the Amendment of the Zares Group. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you very much. It is clear to me that it is almost impossible to draw up a national programme within six months, given that I know how much this ministry is involved in the Presidency. Well, in six months. However, since we are going to adopt the law, I am sure that if the amendments are not too much in relation to the rules of procedure, it would be good if the sub-legislative acts referred to in Article 10 were only enforced earlier than in one year. As long as we do not practically have this material, the law is difficult to implement in practice with its purpose. In such a way that it is possible or necessary to do so within one year, it would, however, recommend to the Ministry and the Government, because this is the deadline, because you have already warned in the section's address, that these acts under the law could be issued earlier. So much earlier, the law will reach its purpose operationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u98	He has taken Mr Brenčič quite rightly and I can only underpin the intention of this desire. The desire is that not in one year, but in half a year, the Ministry of Labour will determine a way of exchanging each other. That's what Article 10 says. It discusses how to determine the procedure for the mutual information of all these services, which are: police, social security centres and so on. In what way do they get to know each other and inform each other so that they can offer assistance in the recovery of violence or in the prevention of violence. At the same time, it imposes a regulation on this individual ministry, how they conduct the procedures at all. This is a duty that is very specific, which is very clear and which, after all, has already received answers in this drafting of the law, because otherwise we could not bring the law together without agreeing on the role of the police, the role of the professional service and so on. Let's say I understand the time it takes to coordinate the various services for the umbrella national programme. Although that's what I think is feasible in six months. However, I would appeal to sub-laws, which are always a key problem in this life of every law if the deadline for their preparation is reduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I suggest we wait a few minutes for the Minister of Environment and Space or the Secretary of State to join us and we move on to the 8th item of the agenda. The minister's coming and he'll be in the hall any minute. Everything shows he won't be joining us in the next moment. That's why I'm adjourning the session and we'll continue in 10 minutes, that's at 13.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the building laws. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the government representative, mag. Mitji Briclja, State Secretary, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act is an important system law. The construction of buildings interferes with the space and thus into the environment, which is becoming increasingly sensitive in terms of rational and prudent use and protection in the broadest sense. Due to the intertwining of the various interests faced and verified in the construction of the buildings, the harmonisation of the text of the novel of the Law on the Construction of Buildings was long but thorough. The Ministry has worked with experts, chambers and individual groups of experts, particularly engineers, with almost all departments, ministries, administrative units, civil society and others. Many comments, opinions and proposals have been made in these coordinations, which have been carefully examined and largely taken into account. On 30 November 2007, a public presentation of opinions on the proposed amendment to the Construction Act was made at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This presentation was attended mainly by experts, representatives of three chambers, Members and investors. Most of these confirmed that amendments to this Act were necessary and that the Ministry had carried out a thorough coordination with regard to the comments and opinions made on the text of the amendment. In addition, further proposals and opinions have been presented at this public hearing, which we have found to have already been taken into account by the amendments tabled and which have not been made known to the public concerned. Some of the proposals that have not been taken into account are now taken into account and included in the text of the amendment of the law. However, a certain small number could not be taken into account. The reasons for non-compliance are different. Opposing proposals that do not follow the concept of a solution and the case law that is now going in the opposite direction in the process of issuing building permits. There are two primary points for amending and supplementing the Construction Act. The first, recently adopted Spatial Planning Act and inseparably linked to the content of the Construction Act, therefore the Construction Act also needs to be amended and complemented in order to comply with the new solutions provided by the Spatial Planning Act. And secondly, the Construction Act came into force on 1.1.2003. At the time of its implementation, it was indisputably found that certain solutions in this law were inadequate, inadequate or inconclusive. This resulted in different interpretations and interpretations, either of individual articles or of a group of articles relating to certain chapters of this Act. The fundamental objective that we want to achieve with the amendments and additions to the Construction of Buildings Act is therefore to simplify and accelerate all the practices and procedures that this law regulates or which it indirectly affects. The novelty itself represents only part of the necessary changes, as in the spirit of simplification it will also be necessary to revise the sub-legislative provisions adopted under this law. Simplifications and accelerations shall be implemented to the extent that they provide construction in accordance with spatial implementation acts and safe construction, with an emphasis on meeting essential requirements such as mechanical resistance, stability, fire safety and other. The main changes introduced by the new Construction Law are the harmonisation with the new spatial law, the new spatial acts as the basis for the issuance of building permits, the integration of facilities into the economic infrastructure of investors for the acquisition of project conditions and the agreement will not have to be paid. A mathematical model shall be introduced to determine the area by which the party to the procedure can be determined on the basis of fully objective criteria. And for a certain number of simple objects, there is no need to obtain documentation. The law brings a number of other changes, such as the re-implementation of design control. More precisely specify the contents, the statement of the building permit and the possibility of renewal of the experimental operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. Please, Mr President of the Committee, Mr Petan, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At its 24th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the Environment and Space discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction of Buildings, which was sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the ordinary legislative procedure. Representatives of the State Council, the Chamber of Architecture and Space in Slovenia, the Engineering Chamber and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Law-Legal Service, the State Council, the Chamber of Architecture and Space, the Engineering Chamber, Engineering from Maribor and Janez Bele and Aleš Guček provided written opinions to the bill. At the proposal of the Social Democrats' Group, the Committee also made a public presentation of opinions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which was 30.11.2007. The public presentation of opinions on the Proposal for amendments and the addition of the Construction of Buildings Act expressed the majority opinion that amendments to this Act were necessary. However, additional proposals and opinions were put forward, for which the Ministry notes that they have been largely taken into account by the amendments tabled. Some of the proposals presented at the public presentation were not taken into account because they opposed the basic concept of the law. Following the examination of the draft law under consideration in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly commented on a number of articles. At the same time, it must be said that the representative of the Committee found that their proposals and their comments and their concerns were almost fully taken into account by the amendments tabled. The President of the Commission of the Council of State for Local Self-Government and Regional Development informed the Committee that the Commission supported the proposed Act amending and supplementing the building law. Amendments were tabled by SDS, NSI and SLS members, who were fully supported and accepted by the Committee. The proposal was also accompanied by amendments by Ambassador William Rezman and Ambassadors of the Zalokar Orazem. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill, the members of the committee proposed to the Committee for discussion and adoption of the following amendments to Articles 3, 17 and 29, which were not adopted by the Committee on Environment and Space. The Committee, however, adopted two amendments as its own, to Article 16, which was proposed on the basis of the comments made in the public presentation of the opinions and also to Article 22. This is also based on the debate in the public presentation of opinions. After discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and the completed debate and vote on the amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Environment and Space Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the building law, which is also an integral part of this report, has been prepared in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u104	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. A friendly greeting to all the Ministry coworkers as well! We are in the law governing the area of design and the conditions for design, including procedures for the issuance of project conditions and consents, building permits and usable permits for the construction and control of the project. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we see two main and central principles to be followed by the legal text: firstly, the responsibility of the designer, supervisor and contractor for the security of construction. Secondly, the responsibility of investors and other participants in construction for the legality and consistency of construction with spatial acts and other regulations. There is certainly a need to place the security of the building in the central place. In our country, we can boast that, unlike some other countries, including the members of the European Union, so far we have practically not had cases where the building would be demolished due to static or other construction errors. This fact is certainly good. However, it also shows that so far the legal arrangements in the construction sector have been such a relatively high-quality construction, and so far they have provided. The proposed novel could be found to be of no relevance to this principle of building safety, which is also one of the main principles followed by the current Construction Act. That is precisely what we find crucial in the proposed amendments to the Construction Act. And it seems to us that the issue is well solved. On the other hand, we stress that the legislative text of the proposed novel is also seeking a new balance between the pursuits of a faster, simpler and cheaper procedure for investors on the one hand and the provision of public interest for quality and security of construction, which must follow the conditions set out in the applicable spatial acts on the other. At the LDS Club, in principle, we support the reduction of the normality of the current legal regime. Too much red tape for all of us. Above all, however, we consider the following changes to be positive. Only project conditions and not more consensus will be necessary to connect the facilities to economic public infrastructure facilities. For the investor, the acquisition of project terms and consents will be free of charge. For a certain number of simple facilities it will be necessary to obtain a building permit in the reduced procedure and without project documentation. In this way, the determination of the fulfilment of the conditions for placing in the premises shall be carried over from an investor who has not been trained in most cases to an appropriate administrative authority. There is also no mandatory technical review for less demanding facilities. Which also means shorter and cheaper procedures. The question is, however, whether these and some other changes will actually make it possible to balance the right balance between the mentioned interests at the beginning of the story, which are also the main dilemma of the legal regulation of this area. This will undoubtedly be demonstrated by time and practice. The practice will also reorganise the definition of an influential area. We agree with the assessment that the applicable law on determining the area of influence due to double criteria makes it unacceptable for the designers themselves and their subjective assessments and that these criteria are therefore more difficult to verify in the process of issuing building permits. However, despite the introduction of the mathematical model to determine the area by which the party to the procedure can be determined on the basis of all objective criteria, thereby ensuring the legal security of the investor and the party concerned. Finally, we would like to draw attention to another important issue in the House of Representatives, Slovenia, which not only touches this novel, but also formally represents the subject of energy law and sub-legislative acts. In our country, unfortunately, we still build energy-inefficient or energy-lossing buildings. And this is not private, but even public buildings, whose investors are the state, the local communities that should become the role model of other investors. For many years, the project of energy cards of buildings was also located in one of the many departments of the Ministry. After a long and unnecessary delay, Slovenia introduces mandatory energy certification of buildings with effect from 1 January. It is clear to all that the energy card itself will not perform a miracle in the field of energy-saving construction due to various causes. That is also why we call on the Ministry of Environment and Space to address the international obligations of our country in relation to climate change. We do not oppose the proposed amendment of the law at the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the views of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you for your word and welcome all present! In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the use of space or intervention in space is a rather sensitive matter. Legislation in this area is therefore extremely important. Each government, or any political option, should, when preparing or amending legislation in the area of spatial planning and construction of buildings, bear in mind the fact that this space, the Slovenian space, which we are altering from day to day by building and other interventions, is not ours. But it was lent to us by our ancestors, who over the centuries shaped the characteristics of Slovenian space. As well as our children or craftsmen who would like our responsible treatment of this place, where they are already living and will live in the future. That's one piece of the medal. The second is that we need to have laws that will allow all of us who live in this room and have certain needs to use this space to have procedures that will not administratively or financially destroy us. So, we legally prescribe what is necessary and do not enter into the law of something that is not necessary and will mean only certain additional financial resources for the investor. We must be aware that tax money is heavily spent in the production of spatial plans and in the production of project documentation. We would like to draw attention to this in the New Slovenia Group. We are pleased that the Ministry of Environment and Space, both in the Spatial Planning Act and in this law that we are considering today, has followed this. We are also pleased that this novel has not experienced significant criticism at the public hearing. Which is a big confirmation that the Ministry has done a good job and prepared a quality law. In New Slovenia we are convinced that the proposed novel is good. It changes the existing law only in those parts that have proved to be either out of order or flawed in practice. Otherwise, the law follows the same principles as existing ones. The maximum contribution of the novel is to simplify procedures and documentation required and to remove other administrative barriers that are unnecessary or disproportionate in terms of public benefit. In addition, the proposed solutions provide greater legal certainty for investors in the construction of buildings. Among the solutions that have proved problematic in design scratches are, in particular, the identification of an influential area and the issuance of project conditions and consensus. The new law removes ambiguity in the determination of parties to a procedure that has been established so far on the basis of an influential area for which there were no clear criteria for determination. The novelty introduces precise criteria for its determination, which is progress in particular in terms of objectivity and clarity. The issue of project conditions and consensus is another area where improvements are needed. We therefore welcome the changes that regulate the process of obtaining these products more clearly and in doing so separate the consensus prescribed for the protection of the public interest and the agreement on the prevention given by infrastructure managers. It is also linked to the provision on minimum municipal care as a condition for obtaining a building permit in residential buildings. Here it will ensure that there will be no construction on otherwise walled plots unless at least minimum municipal standards are provided for this. That's essential. Both in terms of quality assurance of the housing environment, which is the aim of the proposed law and as a protector for the investor, so that they do not have problems obtaining a user permit. In the area of building buildings, it retains the great powers of the congregations, and it also imposes great responsibility on the congregations. In this way, the congregation will be able to force the owner to rehabilitate an object that shows the image of the place. This must be seen primarily as an opportunity, not as an additional obligation and burden. The solutions and improvements brought by the novels are therefore considered necessary and appropriate. Therefore, the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group will also be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u109	Dear President! Secretary of State with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! The bill that is before us eliminates those institutions that have proved to be the biggest shortcomings in practice. The existing Law on the Construction of Objects in Certain Areas did not regulate well enough. Therefore, there was a need for a thorough redefinition and greater legal certainty of certain entities. In addition, this bill is much cleaner and more useful. It simplifies procedures and also removes many administrative obstacles. The current law does not satisfactorily regulate the area of the issue of building permits and, in this regard, the conditions for the minimum supply of buildings. This is now left to spatial acts which may or may not comply with these conditions. In practice, this could have resulted in many abuses, as many constructions were carried out that did not meet the basic conditions of municipal care and thus remained inadequately municipalized. This weakness is much better addressed by the law, since it systematically regulates the conditions for the minimum municipal care of an object and thus protects against possible abuses. In residential buildings, the minimum supply is such that the building permit is issued at all. In addition, the proposal also provides that the facilities after the issue of the licence must be of real use and for precisely this purpose for which they have been built. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this is a good and rational solution, which will regulate this area much better and allow for greater clarity of conditions. The draft law also regulates more precisely the process of obtaining project conditions and consensus. However, shortcomings in determining the area of influence are also addressed. The conditions and criteria so far have been rather vague. However, the proposal for a novelty introduces an area for the identification of parties and precise criteria for their determination. The investor will not have to pay additional costs and fees to obtain project conditions and consents. However, the parties will be able to determine the area on the basis of objective criteria in the procedures for determining the area. Some administrative obstacles are being addressed, which we very much welcome. Thus, the bill introduces a new category of objects. It's a non-requisitional facility. The procedures for obtaining building permits for such facilities will be much less complex and shorter. For this purpose, the proposal foresees even a reduced procedure. In the case of less demanding facilities, it will not be necessary for the administrative authority to issue a technical review if it assesses that it can issue a usable permit on the basis of documentation or inspection. These are just some of the better solutions envisaged in the proposal for a law, thus providing for simplification and acceleration of the procedures regulated. Simplifications shall ensure that construction is consistent with spatial implementation acts. The practice has shown where problems usually occur and where shortcomings are greatest. The bill is therefore much more transparent and precise than the present one. After the adoption of certain amendments, we believe that it is even better. As Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group advocate for precise and rational solutions, we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Zagorac, I'm sorry, you're here at the last minute. I'll call you for Rudolf Petan. Do you want to be in front of him? Here you go! Rudolf Petan, I'm sorry. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! I will say myself that I support or support the amendment of the Construction Act in the Slovenian National Party. But one question seems particularly important to us and I would like to highlight it, and perhaps even in further discussions, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or representatives of the Government would like to answer it, it would be very happy to have answers. In the presentation of my position, I will mention one particular case. And I'd very much like you to answer that question. We know that the law introduces some innovations in the construction of so-called simple objects. And I'm interested in one thing. Especially in the place or area of the place where I come from, these simple objects are quite something. At one point, a lot of people bought land. Most of the time, it's about vineyards or land for agriculture. A while ago, all these people built simple objects on their land, I'll say, in a square meter per meter and a half, a meter per foot. For a short time, inspection services have worked hard and destroyed all these facilities to make it a black building. Let me tell you, someone who takes or buys a vineyard for processing wants to have a shovel to store the tools in. This shovel doesn't have an orderly utility, it doesn't have electricity, it's just a shovel. We have the same example when someone buys a private house. In particular, this is the case in order houses. And then make a wish, because this kind of house he bought on the market doesn't have a basement to set up a thief on the same scale in the garden. And I'm going to say, the thing that was going on in northeast Slovenia was that these shovels were broken. Whether the owner is willing or has received a notice that he must do so within a certain period of time. Bodisi came in for an inspection and ordered it. To the extent that he did not do so, someone or some contractor who broke it came at his expense. This provision of the law so far makes no sense to me. For we all know that if you cultivate any land, you must also store either a tool or yourself, as far as there is a pool or anything. I therefore wonder: Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia feel that the way this law foresees is good enough that this will no longer happen, or guarantees people involved in agriculture, agriculture, wine growing, guarantees enough or simplifies the procedures enough to keep these shovels standing? And the other thing I am interested in and will say is whether or not we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party: Do you think the inspection services work in the way I described them? Because the fact is that no matter how much an individual has acquired an agricultural land for the purpose of further processing, in some cases it is also production or it is right to prevent him from protecting himself and the tools he uses with a certain simple facility. I will be very pleased with all the answers I will receive from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, as I have already said, on the basis of these replies, will depend on the vote of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u112	Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. The Construction Act is a system law governing the construction of buildings, as well as the area and conditions of design, establishing procedures for the issue of consent at individual stages. It also talks about building control and also about the issue of usable permits. The basic law came into force five years ago and was amended several times. Also because of the decision of the Constitutional Court. In doing so, it should be mentioned that the Act is, or can be, a twin of the recently adopted Spatial Planning Act. As soon as the basic Construction Act was adopted, it became clear that it reflected too much lobbyist content and was out of order. The procedures for obtaining consensus were complicated by bureaucratic networks, which also resulted in large and unnecessary costs. And most importantly, it extended the possibility of building the facility itself. Especially if it was an object financed from the budget of the State or the local community. No one was satisfied with the marriage. At least the investors. The change was necessary. But it will be successful if overriding is resolved if individual procedures are simplified. However, it will be strict enough not to endanger any entity in the chain from planning to handing over a built facility to an investor in use as well as its maintenance. Among the solutions that have proved to be inconclusive in design are, in particular, the identification of an influential area and the issuance of project conditions and consensus. The criterion for determining an influential area in the Construction Act was intended to determine the parties in the procedure for issuing the building permit. And they were vague and indeterminate. Therefore, the new definition of this area had to be linked to more specific and feasible criteria in design practice. The main problem is the definition of the facility itself and which documents are needed for it. In the case of different levels of complexity of the facility, as defined by law, this must also be known in the complexity of the documentation necessary for the construction of such a facility and also in the necessary procedures. This is defined by Article 1 of the amendment of this Law. It is also right that the law defines when individual steps and procedures are not necessary. In the case of simple objects, changes in destination or change of use, maintenance parts of a specific purpose and also of volume. The amendment introduces the concept of a responsible designer, for whom the SDS Group expects to achieve its intended purpose and not to find any foreign use, abuse of this content. The Novela also defines more clearly the importance of minimal municipal care, which is different for residential facilities than for industrial facilities. This shall be determined according to the object's purpose. Uncertainties in determining the parties to the procedure shall be addressed. Simplification will also take place with regard to the necessity of a technical review in view of the complexity of the new non-requirement of the facility. The same applies to a valid authorisation. The law also introduces solutions for facilities that endanger or seriously disrupt the environment. This proposal has never been taken seriously in the new law. The point is, it's serious. And there was no mention of worthy experiments. It is true that property must be respected. However, possession of facilities also brings responsibility. The provisions of the law relating to the competent professional chambers and to the conditions for participants in the construction of buildings remain unchanged. This matter will be regulated by a special Law on Spatial Planning and Construction Activities, which is being prepared. However, the law in this part, in addition to certain urgent changes and additions, brings new developments in the completion of construction or in determining whether the construction is carried out in accordance with the construction permit project, which also follows comparative solutions in other countries of the European Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are confident that this amendment on the construction of buildings will have the desired effects, in order to simplify procedures and reduce bureaucratic obstacles and ensure proper representation of the profession throughout the process. We will therefore support the proposed amendment. Especially since a public presentation of opinions on the law was also made prior to the second hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! In the Group of Social Democrats, we find that the aim of the proposaler is to correct and welcome, by means of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction of Objects, the shortcomings of the current law. As a major disadvantage, the applicant mentions in particular the determination of the influential area of the facility, the issuance of project conditions and consensus, and in particular the simplification of procedures. If we look only at the text of the law, we can see that there are very large changes and that not all the dilemmas are solved in all solutions. We were therefore of the opinion that a public presentation of opinions on the content of the amendments to the Construction Act should also be carried out before the discussion in the National Assembly. Also in the debate in the public presentation of opinions, it was found that some issues were still open, unresolved. However, something also pointed to solutions in the text itself that could even make it worse for investors to build their investment in a timely and rapid manner. In this way, we believe that the Construction Act should, above all, give the investor a real opportunity to have a free opinion on the value of the investment. However, this investment value can only be verified by appropriate documentation giving the investor the basis for making the right decision. Therefore, we also propose to maintain solutions in the current Construction Act, which provides for the preparation of first-hand ideal solutions, which in variants show spatial architectural, construction or technological possibilities, and on the basis of this, the investor may decide which option will be chosen. And, of course, this also determines the optimal prudentity of the investment. Even when the investor has already decided on how and what he will build, it is very important to maintain the provision now in force, which talks about preparing a tendering project. However, this is a very important stage in construction, if not a key one, which must be made transparently work, especially in the public sector, and of course achieve the right price, and of course also the choice of the contractor on which it depends to a large extent, whether the investor will be satisfied with the project he has decided on. If we have a tendering project ready, then we also know what content the tender documentation must be. However, it is not to be left to an individual investor from the case to the case, if there is no solution. And we also point to the fact that an object is already built to create a very important period, when we just have to use the object. However, we need, of course, a very clear basis for the operation and maintenance of such technology or facility during the time of increasing technological progress and many of the technologies that are being incorporated into the facility. We therefore propose to maintain a project for operation and maintenance. Only project documentation can fully record all the solutions that the user needs in order to be able to use the facility pleasantly and appropriately. In defining an influential area, we also believe that the law should define the criteria for calculating an influential area more precisely, rather than establishing it by means of a sub-legislative regulation. If the law does not specify the criteria more precisely, we can talk about an inadequate legal text which is not in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, it is not possible to determine anything that anyone might wish by means of a submarital act. This must be in the new law. And if we add simplification to that. In the construction of simple and non-requisitive facilities, we can talk about meeting construction on water, heating, gas pipelines, which can endanger the stable supply not only of the environment, but also of the wider users of these energy services. Finally, the layout of simple objects can lead to Slovenia becoming a land of many foundations and barracks, which we do not think is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 13 December 2007. First, I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Webber, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you for your word. Well, the amendment to Article 16 is one of those with which we really want to help investors make the right decision when they plan an investment. In fact, we want an ideal solution to remain in the law, which will allow the investor to determine different or to decide between different options to realize his idea. Otherwise, in the text of the law itself, in the debate of the committee, article 22 stated that we need an ideal solution when deciding whether or not to hold a public tender. It is therefore right that we also write in Article 16 an ideal solution as the basis that we then need in Article 22 to carry out the public tender. This is just one of the cases already described by the adoption of the amendment on the Committee as the need for an ideal solution to be included in Article 16. In addition, I would like to point out once again that it is true at the moment when you have the documentation for the building permit and when you are preparing for the tender, that the most important elements of this documentation are that you will be able to produce the tender documentation and on the basis of which you will try to select the most suitable contractor, both at cost and according to the references that this operator has, and in view of the needs that the investor expects in view of the complexity of the facility. The amendment of the Construction Act releases the preparation of this documentation or the tendering project. This means that in Slovenia we will have cases where, for example, a single ministry, an individual municipality, a public institution will decide what it will submit as tender documents. This is too open a question and too crucial a question. For we know that the procedure for broadcasting works, if we are to ensure transparent use of public funds, should also be clearly recorded. And if we do not have a single tender project for the whole of Slovenia, it will be possible for individual investors to prepare completely different tendering conditions and also tendering projects. And we can face great difficulties as to whether we can talk about transparent spending in the area of public spending. We therefore believe that it is necessary to reintroduce the tendering project in the Construction Act. The operation and maintenance project subject to this amendment is also necessary and necessary. Especially for technologically most demanding projects. It is hard to imagine that, for example, a nuclear power plant would operate on the basis of a directive used by this law, a change in the law as a mandatory component for the use of technology-intensive facilities. I think it is, however, an extremely difficult dossier that we can really define as project documentation. And we're talking about a project for operation and maintenance. That, in fact, the guidance is probably welcome, but the sense and the diction itself has somewhat less meaning than the project. Of course, within the project we can then have more specific instructions for individual technology, for an individual part of the facility, how to maintain it, how to manage it. We also believe that, because of the safety and efficiency of operation and maintenance, it is very important that we have a project for operation and maintenance for challenging projects. Of course, we allow the investor to decide for himself whether it is possible for less demanding facilities to require a project for operation and maintenance. Therefore, we also feel that there is no way that we can talk about any additional burden on the investor. It is, however, that the investor really makes the right decision at the very beginning on what kind of investment is being decided, on which option, that it will also work very transparently through the public procurement system and that, not later on, when the facility is built, it will use this facility safely, cost-effectively and effectively. And that's what the amendment to Article 16 is talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. I'll talk about this amendment to Article 16. And from all of this I have a feeling or a feeling that this idea for this amendment was created in the ranks of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. Now, if I'm wrong, I apologize. But the proponents, i.e. the Social Democrats want - so once again, I will stress - at the wish of the Engineering Chamber - I got this feeling after all that Mr Weber has just said - to introduce further phases of project documentation. One is an ideal solution. If you ask me, it would be enough to call it an idea project. But well, the ideal design I think was that it was some compromise in preparing this law between architects, the Engineering Chamber and the Ministry of the Environment. We want, in fact, the intention of this law is, above all, simplification. But here, in my opinion, it's complicated in some way. I think that the ideal solution just wants to blur out needlessly, to entangle the existing set of types of projects, especially at the expense of the investor and the well-being of the designers. That's the feeling I got. Maybe I'm wrong. The next thing they're trying to put in place is a tendering project. Now, of course, he's getting rid of it. In practice, as I know, it was very rarely used. Very rarely, and this was only one intermediate phase between the PGD project, i.e. the construction permit project and the PZI project, which had to be specifically paid as a tendering project. I think it's enough already PZI that we could somehow enforce here. And I think we can easily miss him. The next thing is a maintenance and operation project. This is, at least as I have been taught or seen this week, a set of instructions from performers on how to maintain or operate devices in the facility. It's kind of a guidance. It's not a project. For example, I'm in my project, which I've been watching, not long ago, writing instructions that the parquet should be wiped periodically with a damp cloth and not cleaned with abresive means. So, this is the maintenance and operation project. In my opinion, it is totally unnecessary, and it also costs a lot of money. Any such project. And at least what matters most. All that has been proposed in these amendments is not prohibited by law. The law doesn't prohibit that. That's why the investor can order them at any time, but really at any time, he keeps ordering them. However, I think that the legal fragmentation of so many types of projects is pointless and it seems to me that the simplification and appreciation of these procedures makes no sense. Just appreciation and simplification was the desire and ambition to prepare this law. This amendment, which you have summarized, I believe from the Engineering Chamber, is written on the skin of those who serve well with these projects. I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Look, this is an amendment that we've also discussed on the committee. The subject was quite a long one. But she was positive. She was good. Now this amendment has happened again. But look, on the board we found that such an amendment, such an approach would not be necessary. For we must ask ourselves what our goals are in this law. All of us who, on behalf of the groups today, presented our views, talked about the need to simplify the procedures. To relieve them of unnecessary red tape, to get rid of overcrowding. And if we are to pursue this objective, then the documentation must also be suitable for the facility and in general it must be one that facilitates the investor's approach to construction. Of course, taking into account just the right standards, standards, restrictions, safety standards and, of course, an even sufficient measure of the acceptability of bureaucracy. We were all together here. And if we take that into account, then I have to admit that we don't have to have three ideas, solutions, projects and so on. We also found that out on the board. The next, which is even more important, is the project for the call for proposals and the project for the execution of works. See, if I follow what is written down, what is supposed to be a tendering project, there is systematic documentation that provides technical conditions and technical specifications for the tendering procedure for the planned construction. On this basis it is said to be signed and obtained by the contractor. The project for implementation is a project that enables the construction and testing of the facility with individual plans. Now I ask you how the contractor should know what the performance of these works should be if he did not receive this in the invitation to tender. Then it's no wonder if we find that we have 30 annexes to one facility, because you've got something that's not the same as a project to execute. Yeah, when are you gonna get that? When will you be able to estimate how much material you will install? When will you be able to assess the cost? This is already fundamentally contradicted by a healthy logic of simplicity and transparency. When you take the job, you don't know what the project will be like. That doesn't make sense. It is said that the tendering project is completely superfluous in such a context. The call for proposals must be based on my logic, because I have also worked in these areas, the project to be implemented, then I can only decide how much this matter will cost and how much material I will use in this and what price I will give. But if I don't come every day with one annex, I'm going to say, you know, it wasn't in the tendering project, but it wasn't, and it wasn't, and then things happen to us now on the market that are generally known. And the next thing you know, it's about simplification again, a project for operation and maintenance. I agree, and we have all also agreed on a committee that there must be some documentation for maintenance and operation. That's perfectly clear. But it's already written in other blanks. It's called guidance. Operating instructions, maintenance instructions. This instruction doesn't necessarily have to be just one book. These instructions can be three trucks of documentation if we talk about, say, a nuclear power plant, because we mentioned it at the time. But the basic difference between the instructions and the project is that the project must be paid by the investor and the instructions must be provided by the seller or the producer of the case. And besides, there's something else. It is important that the instructions or project for maintenance and safe operation have such information that the user can work safely and without any problems according to these instructions. At this stage, after all, it doesn't matter how it's called whether it's a guidance or a project or a great project or a great instruction or maybe a combination of both. But the habit is that when it comes to operating, maintenance, these are instructions for use, for operation, for maintenance. That's a fact. And I don't know why we should start a project so that the investor should pay for it in particular, because every project pays. And that probably won't convince us that that's not the case. And that's why we think this project is completely superfluous. I don't even mind if someone lobbied for all the projects that this documentation should have. I understand everyone wants to make a living doing this. However, we must make a somewhat broader decision. We not only decide on this narrow group, but we also have to make decisions from the investor's point of view. And if we give it together, then we find out that we really have to consider only what is necessary. What is essential is not to endanger construction, safety, safety, and, of course, human life and what is connected with operation. But the minimum is enough to do it. But if we have a bunch of unnecessary documentation, it usually happens to us that we don't see in this terrible forest those trees that we should see because they're too many. And too much normalization is not good, it's not healthy, it's harmful. And it's nice. Because someone has to pay for it. Usually it's just out of our pocket. If it's public buildings, we all pay for it anyway. But if it's private, those who invest, and we're there too. And in this spirit, to simplify the procedures that the current legislation or the ambiguities that the current legislation makes possible was a requirement for this law. And this law is supposed to end it and make that right amount and content. And that's why I'm not going to support this amendment either, because, lastly, we've found on the board that we're not going to support what's too much. And I stay with what most have decided on the committee, and my personal opinion is exactly the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. We will not support the amendment to Article 16 in the New Slovenia Group. If we accepted this amendment, we would return to the existing law. Article 35 of the existing law would therefore continue to apply. And that's not really what we've achieved. We have not achieved what the legislator probably had in this article to rationalise certain matters. And I'll tell you what I think about the ideal solutions. What the State prescribes or what the State has, or the local community adopted in the spatial plans, and where it is determined that a particular intervention will be carried out only on the basis of a previous public tender, is clearly defined that all those who have applied for the tender will certainly prepare an ideal solution. And ideal solutions are the basis for further procedures in obtaining other documentation. That's clear. That remains unchanged. In the case of individual investments to which this law applies, the legislator felt that we did not need it or that it did not need to be written. But if anyone has such great desires that he would like to have ten ideal solutions, no one will defend them. And I agree with that. Of course, the rest is in the marriage. It's an idea project and an ideal design that I think is too much. But that's all that's left. And I think we can stop talking about some big desires. I will not let go of who was the trigger to keep this in law either or here was the interest of the profession of the so-called Engineering Chamber. They probably had a word in mind, or it was just a proposaler. Look, about the tendering project. Indeed, we have debated quite a lot on this committee. But here I find it literally absurd to talk or somehow still force someone to just include it in the law. After all, almost everything was already said. We have a project for a building permit. Now those who know what it means or to what extent the construction permit project is and are so clear what the content of the construction permit project is. You have to go build an object if you don't have PZI, a subproject to do it. Since the implementation project contains all the details or is the basis of the operators so that the project can also be implemented. And now, if an investor is unable to pull out a list of works that are actually a tendering project, what you want now, then it's absurd that an investor is going to invest. However, I must also say this, that I am proposing a tendering project, which has been somehow so far, I would also say legally as a obligation, and it was later up to the investor whether he decided to fully implement the investment, either in part or in stages, etc. However, the investor still had to decide which census to take from the census project. So there are no qualified people here anyway. And it seems to me that the debate on this again is certainly too much. Regarding the operation and maintenance project, I would like to say this, please do not interfere with the Construction Act. This is actually this material that we're dealing with. And then there's the equipment. I don't know how much this Construction Act also includes building equipment. We don't build equipment. And to mix the nuclear power plant with the part that prescribes it, by which the nuclear power plant will be built as an object. The second thing that equipment manufacturers will cooperate with is that this is not included or they do not work under the Construction Act. They're using what's necessary. And for the last time, I've been explaining some production, a transfer line. Probably not according to the Buildings Act. There are also instructions for use. However, they are also likely to be even a project for use. But this is equipment. It's not an object. Today, we are primarily talking about objects, because the building law is talking about the necessary documentation that we need to build this facility. That we will now need a special operation and maintenance project for a housing block. I don't know. However, I agree with myself, as has been said several times before, that certain regulations or, as they are already called, are certainly necessary. Otherwise, I don't know what you're going to do, but you're going to need a project to make it absolutely necessary every five years to paint the interior, or restore the facade every ten years. So I am of the opinion that it is also right to exclude this part from the old article 35 of the law or that it is not in the new article 16 of the law. So that - like, I have already mentioned - the New Slovenia Group will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you. Let me explain once again that there will be no doubt as to the text of this amendment. Both at the public presentation of opinions and in the official comments to this law, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia pointed out this. So it's not even a question here. And I can also say that I have consulted with the representatives of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia on this law. Because it seems to me that if someone is competent for when we talk about the Construction Law, it is definitely the profession that can most help us to adopt the text of the law in the National Assembly. Finally, even if we have decided in Slovenia that we will have universities and that we will also have engineers, it is also right to allow these engineers to transfer their knowledge into practice. Otherwise, we do not need these institutions in Slovenia and we will decide because investors are already smart enough in themselves to need neither the profession nor the knowledge. With regard to these solutions, it is indeed a matter of cooperation with the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. However, I would like to remind you of something in this amendment. If you read the tenth point of this amendment, it refers to the fact that a type of design documentation is produced by a designer only if it requires a procedure to obtain a building permit or a procedure to obtain a usable permit or procedures that are, for example, written in individual special laws and, of course, if required by an investor. It is certainly not a matter of explicitly determining that it is necessary for all investments to produce all the documentation written down in this amendment, but only what is necessary for the issue of construction, usable and, last but not least, for the investor himself to do so. And the point of this is that the investor does not invent himself if he is going into an ideal solution, let's give him, the investor, at least write down what the ideal solution should contain, but if we don't write it down in the law, and the investor who decides to do so doesn't even know what such an ideal solution should contain. And finally, not all those who will present ideas to the investor know what the solution must be written or drawn in such an idea. That's what this is about. But if we don't have this in writing, then every individual designer can do whatever it takes to give the investor and every investor a good idea of what the ideal solution should be. However, if we define this in the law, these dilemmas fall away; whether the investor needs it or not, it actually decides for itself. However, I think it is an extremely important moment when the investor decides to invest and then solves as many questions as possible and then there are very few derogations when the project is already in the construction phase. However, if you do not clear these issues at the outset and there is then a need for change and a different concept during the design or implementation process, there is a need to redesign a new building permit or supplement the building permit to be requested and, last but not least, to conclude an annex to the contracts for the provision of additional works arising from this title. It seems to me that it is really very important that we help investors at that first stage to make the right decision not to have any problems later. And that is all we want to do together with the Engineering Chamber to re-emphasize and not least to legitimize. The tendering project - yes, I agree, but each investor can determine for himself what the content of the tendering project will be, but if we define it in the law, it is defined in the law and in any case we need the tender documentation. It is impossible for all project documentation, which is sometimes extremely extensive, to say that we will do in as many copies as the operators will apply for the call. This is extremely expensive and also impossible, so you order five, six copies of the projects you need to have one as an investor, one as an administrative unit, one as an administrative unit, one as an archive. But if you have 20 bidders, say, on call, what are we going to order 20 projects for that? This project is therefore an invitation to tender to determine only the part of the project documentation that is necessary so that the offer can be transparent. And if we have this in the law, this is known for everything, otherwise the investor would decide for himself how to prepare the tender project. Of course, it is also stipulated in each call that the project for implementation is always available and available at the investor's headquarters and that any tenderer preparing this offer will also view this project and also an item after that on the basis of these additional information from the evaluation project. Thus, there is no additional burden, but in fact additional and greater transparency is involved at this important time when you decide to choose an operator. The same applies to the operation and maintenance project. I agree, anyone who installs equipment to give a guide, but more difficult than an object, is more of this equipment, more of these instructions. Each self-instruction for an individual apparatus, individual equipment is not disputed. The problem is when these instructions are to be read as a whole, when more of these instructions need to be listed and said, so the object and the whole are to function. Who's gonna do that? Will the investor do it himself? But does he have that knowledge? I think we have engineers in Slovenia who can read all these different instructions and prepare a project for the investor that contains all these instructions so that the facility can operate safely and that the facility can also be successfully maintained. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government! I do not support this amendment, but something in this text also, as we say, drinks water. Of course, I cannot agree with the fact that we write in the law what are the components of, for example, an ideal solution, a design and a project of three. It is true that then in the following paragraphs you define what one of the concepts means, but the fact is that sometimes, if we add too much up in an article, some paragraph, then a problem in administrative procedures and so on, someone can go through it and require all of these stages. In this way, of course, the deadlines are extended, the process is complicated and so on. Then I would also like to hear the proposals on what they think about this tendering project. Of course, I do not agree with colleagues who have previously explained that the tendering project is already the same as the project of the works carried out, the project for implementation, I apologize. This, of course, cannot be, is not necessary in most cases, and I agree with my colleague Webro that this is neither necessary nor possible, because many times the tenderers give for some parts of the facility some of their solutions, which cannot be an integral part that is technologically related to the execution, to various of their own conditions, which they offer for the execution of an object or part of an object. The implementation project must be linked to these future technological solutions. In view of the practice I have in this part, however, I have always advocated that the documentation necessary to enable the investor to decide that it is appropriate to place the facility in a room, to obtain a suitable operator for an appropriate price, and that the operator can also produce it and that the user, which can also be an investor or user, can use it appropriately. This, of course, is the basis on which it is necessary to determine which technical documentation is required for each type of facility. This part seems to me not to belong in this last paragraph, the last line of the Operation and Maintenance Project - of course, in some facilities, as colleague Weber mentioned the nuclear power plant and many others, not just nuclear power plants. In many projects where the technological process is demanding and so on, there is still a lot of other need to be written into this law, but it is necessary to respect and comply with other legislation, but for most of the facility, such a paragraph or such a project would be a matter of which, I claim, various inspection bodies, administrative authorities and so on "hang out" and could also complicate the matter. As far as these tendering projects are concerned, I expect answers or opinions from the bill-maker. Besides, I don't think it would be good to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u129	I'd like to say the following. It would not be good for us to literally write something into the law and not to misinterpret me, to make a fool out of designers or urbanists, architects, what colleague Weber is somehow leading to, when he has added ideal solutions. So let's write, let's be clear, what are the ideal solutions? Look, there's a big difference, whether we're doing something in the area of low buildings, high buildings and so on. If we want to have ideal solutions, then probably the designer will be the architect, the urbanist, if it is necessary to include the urbanist, he will probably prepare some ideal solutions for us in terms of content, as far as his profession is concerned. We cannot even write this down, or it would be illogical to write it now in marriage. If I decided to build an apartment block as an investor to return to the apartment block, an ideal solution, whether I as an investor would say that I want to have a ten-story or twenty-seater, someone would probably tell me whether I have to have a lift or not. I'm sure the architect will tell me or give me a solution to where the entrance will be to everything else infrastructure that's there. Which is a completely, probably a different approach if I'm going to build a new road or some other facility. So once again, the proposal that the Ministry has drawn up, I think it is a good one.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Attended by the Ministry, fellow Member and Members. Otherwise, I'm not going to say in advance that this proposal that we have before us today is a good one, because that's just about to show up. But, if I understand correctly, the Ministry's efforts have been made in this direction to effectively eliminate some unnecessary, if I say so, bureaucratic procedures in the process of building some projects. And I find it difficult to understand this amendment that Mr Weber is advocating, but he wants to bring the matter back to what we have at the moment. I hope to say the word here that in Slovenia there are designers and architects of financial emperors. What we have today is essentially unsustainable. Simply, if you want all these procedures, with all the documentation you need for a project, you're gonna spend so much money that you're actually afraid of how you're gonna make an investment. So many different requirements have been made. And now, colleagues from SD propose to stay back, it is said that we have an ideal solution, then an idea design, an idea project, a project to obtain a building permit, a project to be called for, a project to be carried out, a project to carry out, and finally a project to operate and maintain. This bill, which we have before us, actually cancels three of these cases. I welcome that. Perhaps any of these can remain, without any damage to the state or, if you like, for local and other investments. Colleagues from SD say, on a proposal from the Engineering Chamber. That's unacceptable. If you're going to work on a proposal from the Engineering Chamber, then I'm not surprised you haven't written another five things. What's their wish? As much as they can get you through the law, they'll make money. That's the logic. And I, because in the last year a little bit more detail also on the part of the local community, on the part of the congregation, am aware of how many of these matters that we or you have enacted in the past are unnecessary, I can only welcome the fact that the government is taking over and this ballast is being removed from the legislation in some way. And I can't imagine myself voting for this amendment, which is returning all of this through the SD party's proposal to this law. And I'll say one more thing. I was a member of the Committee on Environment and Space in the previous term. We took a look at the construction of Black Cal. There, in the construction site itself, we were told that they did 71 ideal studies. 71 were made, of course 71 were paid by the state. In the end, they built after the first one that was immediately proposed by the people who live there. Is that really what we want? On the other hand, we talk about how expensive the highway is. Yeah, they can't be cheap if someone imagines and does 71 variants. And if we paid him, he'd have made 71 more. Why not, why don't you make them 140, because each one costs so much and so much. That's why I, my colleagues in SD, strongly disagree with you. And if the Ministry has made a proposal to simplify things, then I must say that I just welcome it. But we'll see what practice will bring then. Since laws such as the Construction of Buildings Act, then the Law on the Regulation of Space and so on, always show these improvements in the final stage whenever they are implemented in practice. And it is not until many times that we find out what else needs to be changed in the marriage itself. I know that this cannot be done at once, gradually, every time, and we will oppose this amendment in New Slovenia. The proposal for these changes, which we consider relatively good at the moment, will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u133	Just for a moment, I'd like to put an end to these doubts that you're making. I'll point out that if the investor decides, he'll be able to go into an ideal solution if the investor doesn't decide, but he won't go into it. This is what the tenth point of this amendment is talking about. So all you're saying is that we're going back to some level like we used to is not true. But I'm still saying it's much cheaper if you pay the project well, and then you have fewer problems, and then you have less problems doing it than if you're going with a bad project to do it and you've got a lot of problems and a lot of encouragement. And there is something else that I think is very important if we already have engineers in Slovenia, let us take advantage of them. Why not? But I would point out that the investor decides for himself whether or not he will try to involve the engineering profession before he decides to invest or not. So this option is given. However, it seems to me that the amendment is very important if the investor already decides to know that the ideal solution must contain what is enshrined in the law. And basically make it easier for an investor, but we're not making it difficult or anything like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u134	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 16 and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the two amendments of the Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u135	Article 29 seems to be really relevant for the implementation of the Construction of Buildings Act or these amendments and for the completion of the Construction of Buildings Act. This is about how we will define an influential area, within which there will also be a list of co-operators for the project or for the issue of a building permit. The drafter of the law says that the provisions so far have been unclear, unclear and that there have been problems in practice. In fact, what the law says right now is left to the Government itself, by regulation, to provide what the calculation will look like to determine an influential area and who will then be the co-rapporteur on the basis of this calculation. Today, there is no one in the National Assembly who could say what an influential area would look like, but above all there are no criteria that we can write down and we must write down in law, so that a sub-law can then be drafted by the Government in accordance with this law. Just as this text is written right now, the government has completely open hands on how it will design a calculation to determine an influential area. And I would like to point out that this is contrary to our legal order. That is why we are also talking about this in the first amendment to take into account at least the deviations and dispersal plates that ensure fire safety, lighting and ventilation of objects. These are, in our view, the minimum criteria that should also be respected in the regulation when there is a formula that we do not, after all, know. The formula is one of the biggest unknowns of this building law, which we are legislating with a name as the formula that this formula is, but in fact no one knows and I also think that after another six months of adoption of this law, we will not know this, because somewhere else this circle is prescribed for the issue of a sub-law. So for this interim period, it seems very important to us that at least, we need to take into account these criteria for an influential area of fire safety, lighting and ventilation, because, after all, it doesn't matter whether someone, I will tell you, looks at a plate or not when you build an object next to yours, and whether or not the ventilation is such that the whole neighborhood knows, let's say what's going on in an apartment or in a restaurant. In short, it is a truly overly loose provision of this Article 29, and we think that by adopting the amendment we are at least a little close to making it clear to the National Assembly that the Government should be able to draw up a sub-legislative act. I think we can also discuss the second amendment to this article, which speaks of informing the operator of the economic public infrastructure of the intended establishment of a simple facility. Here I would also like to point out and ask the proposers or representatives of the Government to define the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which we have received today on the amended Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction of Buildings, which has also noticed in this article a flaw, an inadequacy. In fact, it can happen that this simplification that we are talking about in this law - so one of the important gains is simplifying procedures; but if we are talking about the simplest objects, the investor can actually set up this object without asking anyone. And it can happen that this facility is set up so that, for example, in the area of public road it reduces transparency, because before that it does not have to ask the Directorate for State Roads, no, say, municipalities, if there is a local road, whether this facility can stand there or not. Since it is a simple, unnecessary object, you can place it, there is no problem, but the problem arises if it is within that area that reduces, say, transparency on the public road; this is very dangerous. Another danger is that such an object is on a water network. What if, at the moment of damage or even at the time of construction, you cause damage on a water network that may not otherwise be too fatal, even though there are several atmospheres or bars on the water network and it is not pleasant if the impact is too direct? Of course, there is a bigger problem if this happens, such as on a gas pipeline, a heating pipeline, or even a steam system. Of course, even some high - voltage power cable can be extremely dangerous if you do not know that you are setting this temporary facility on an energy cable or cutting out an electrical network, and there are many things that can happen. Not to mention that infrastructure managers often do not know where the damage occurred, nor can they act to remedy the damage as soon as possible. This means that there can be very large damage, with electricity running out, the entire village can be left with electricity-free production. Not to mention steam, heating, plumbing and so on. How uncomfortable it is if you wake up in the morning and the water doesn't come out of the tap. I think that's something we don't want. We therefore propose that when these simple facilities are placed in space, the investor at least informs the infrastructure manager that it will do so. Although I think so, and I also hope that this amendment will be adopted, that this text will also have to be really supplemented by an investor's request for the consent of the infrastructure manager and then put this simple object into space on the basis of such agreement. The Ministry also sets out a list of co-legislators in accordance with this law, so it is doubtless that you will not, for example, in an area where there is no pipeline, seek out consent for gas, but you will look for consent for water, electricity, telecommunications and heating or whatever is in the area where you want to build this simple facility. So here I really hope that this amendment will be supported and that we will also then complete this text in a way that we will not only talk about the notification, but actually about the agreement of the infrastructure manager and thus eliminate the really big inconveniences that will certainly occur in practice. I also reiterate the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and I would also like the proposal to be defined for this opinion, particularly now in this article and this amendment, but also to raise the question of Article 128 of this Act, which also requires an explanation of how the proposaler will take account of this notice from the Law and Law Service, and it is important, indeed, because it is a matter of energy facilities, to place energy facilities in a space to clear up this text of the Law on the Construction of Objects and that we will not have really serious problems due to the desire to simplify procedures. How, then, will we build in Slovenia if such a law enters into force? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss in particular this article, which discusses these non-requisitive objects. Following the amendment of the Building Construction Act, the following types of objects will be: one is simple objects, non-requisitional objects, less demanding objects and, above all, non-requisitional objects. The current PGI defines simple, less demanding and difficult. And the current simple objects, such as shovels, roofs, fences, walls, walls, after this novel will become unrequited objects and for which a minimum building permit will be required, very much like this notification work, very similar. But the novel introduces a new category, which means simple objects, which will be very simple objects, which means that, so I understood from this public presentation when I read this magnetogram or listened to it, it will be objects that will be without foundation. We are talking mainly about ticks, billboards, temporary stands and so on. I think it would be completely inappropriate to inform the operator of an economic public service or public infrastructure of the intended establishment of one such facility on a private plot. For example, in a park somewhere near an object I'd like to set a trap and I'd need a consent from Petrol, Petrol Gas, from Elektra, but I'm talking about simple objects that are without foundation. I see no need here to obtain such permits. Of course, this is assuming that the rule that defines these objects will really be among simple objects will include what I have just said or similar. Well, really the simplest objects, so tick, sir, which is not concrete. And in order to get my consent, I don't know, Petrol Gas, and so on, it makes no sense to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u139	When we listen to all these debates, we go from one extreme to another. From nuclear power plants to benches, but the lock in the park is park equipment, I understand, it's not an object, it's equipment. However, it can happen to us and so I would ask the proposer to explain what he thinks about these things, even for this auditorium, because, after all, you have, it seems to me that 30 minutes of time for answers and please take advantage of that too. It doesn't take all 30 minutes, or something, or 20. However, it can happen, as my colleague Prevc earlier told me, that a water pipe is also turned over in panning. And in this case, of course, it's good to know that someone knows that someone's gonna put something there. Of course, the trash can and the bench is equipment in a space, which does not require a building permit or a tendering project and so on. I'd like to ask for a little clarification from the proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u140	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Bricel, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Ministry of Environment and Space carefully examined the proposed amendments and prepared a written reply. With regard to the debate that has just taken place, I think that, in fact, the concerns or views already answered are well explained why and how we follow the simplification of the law in the pursuit of the two objectives: therefore, to establish a spatial order by means of a transparent procedure that is intended to bring about greater quality of residence. These are the objectives that we are following with the proposed amendment. In explaining the proposals that have just been re-exposed, we have justified the initiatives that Mr Weber has just presented, and we believe that there is an argument. The debate has just, I think, confirmed that by re-inclusion of the contents of the ideal solutions and projects for the call for and maintenance projects, in our view, we would needlessly burden and make the procedure which is imprudent today untransparent, as you yourself have found, premature and expensive. These were basic objectives, and by no means with the proposed novel - and we are sure that we are not reducing the quality of the solutions that contribute to the quality of the stay or safety of the facilities. That this is the case, they have been informed, and at long talks also at the Ministry of Engineering of Slovenia, and we are also convinced of this because I already have a package of all the regulations that regulate these contents in detail. These are the sub-legislative acts or regulations that are already in preparation or a large package, including a regulation on the areas to be determined by the parties, so that what we have before us today and which we are deciding on is also based on a structure that is already ready for continuation or follow-up acts that are already complementary and ready. With regard to the technical explanations relating to the proposed solutions, I think you have also received them in writing. I can only briefly summarize once again the answers that are, for example, the type of project documentation and Article 35 highlighted by Mr Weber. I will briefly take it that all the content relating directly to the construction of buildings or to the need for legal regulations is in fact taken into account. Therefore, the current regulation for some of the projects, which contained only framework content that could not be written down in more detail, is even less uniform, as the types of objects and their complexity are very different and require the precise determination of the content by the investor. It is therefore proposed that certain projects should no longer be regulated in law but be left to the decision of the investor and the market. Comparatively, countries with construction laws regulate only the content of those projects that are invested in administrative procedures or directly related to the construction of buildings; documentation for specific types of buildings is governed by sectoral laws and investment documentation for contracting authorities is governed by public procurement rules. With regard to Mr President's question, or proposal, to this same content, we can add that it is necessary to focus not only on the construction of buildings, everything else I think can be regulated by other sectoral laws. We believe that the tendering project is a matter of investment documentation already regulated by public procurement rules. The project for the operation and maintenance of the novel retains as a guide for the operation and maintenance of demanding facilities, where this is necessary and prudent in view of the complexity of these facilities. However, for a less demanding facility, this project is no longer mandatory. In our view, all other projects are a matter of agreement between the investor and the designer and there is no need for legal regulation in this regard. If we go to Article 29, then we believe that, or as we have explained, the detailed content of the sub-legislative acts that have so far been enshrined in the law, due to the over-definition and accuracy of the provisions in the law in force, has been an obstacle to the drafting of the sub-legislative acts. Therefore, basic starting points have been introduced into the law, and in the regulations of the law, as we have said, they are in fact largely prepared, and all these content will be further regulated and regulated. The solution whereby all the detailed content is regulated in sub-legislative acts and not in law is more appropriate since, in the event of advances in techniques or new facts in the local environment or changed circumstances, it is possible to react more quickly with the amendment of the sub-legislative act, but within the framework laid down by the law. Furthermore, from the zero platform proposed as a criterion for calculating the area for customer identification, they have no direct relationship with the parties, but are subject to spatial acts and building regulations and ensure compliance with them in the design. Here we point out the Bavarian case and the law from which the proposed criterion for the calculation of the area for the determination of customers of this criterion is summarised, does not apply to the identification of customers, but provides that the parties are in the process of owning neighbouring land. However, since the Bavarian law applies mainly to buildings, with most of the building engineering facilities governed by regional regulations, all buildings and building engineering facilities are regulated, the criteria for the calculation of the area to be determined by the parties should be laid down in both the building criteria and the criteria for construction engineering facilities. And then to Article 49, or to build a simple facility. The proposal that the investor should inform the operator of the economic public infrastructure before the intended installation of the simple facility, the shed, as we have heard, the roof or the wall, should not hold back. The first reason for this is the simple construction of simple objects, which are envisaged for recruitment in the new Regulation on the type of objects according to complexity. It is a structurally completely unwelcome object that does not have a foundation that does not have connections, and part of these objects is intended primarily as temporary and temporary objects, and simple objects are therefore easy and quickly removed. In short, it is a matter of temporaryity and, of course, as well, I would say, passivity and removal. Therefore, interventions into economic infrastructure that interfere with the use of this infrastructure cannot occur at all. The second reason for the amendment is that the catastrophes, in particular the underground public infrastructures, are flawed or not at all, so such an investor requirement would constitute a serious investment obstacle, since in large cases they would not know which operator must inform in its investment intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you. How can I say this, but look, the Ministry of the Environment is also responsible for whether or not it is safe water supply. And I'd say for some energy objects and so on. Anyway, if we're talking about simple objects, we're talking about objects. And precisely for this reason, because we don't know exactly, not all cadastrals of municipal waters have been digitally produced yet, so that someone, for example, could go to the website and look at it, because the question whether it makes sense at all, is published in such a form, because then it could be used for other purposes to intentionally cause damage to this infrastructure. However, that minimum contact with the infrastructure manager must be. I don't understand that this is something that would mean a lot of simplification in this law. And there is something else, if we insist on making such a great desire for simplifications in simple objects, I will tell you that we will have Slovenia literally bedlined with simple objects. There are absolutely no essential limits, as spatial acts will not define these things as precisely as the proposer might like to present that it is the one which cannot be achieved. He can come! If the area is defined for construction, you can set up a simple or different object there without consent. But the worst part is if it's put on infrastructure. And there's gonna be trouble here, I know what's going on, from practice. Last but not least, I come from this practice myself, and I know what the problem is if someone causes damage to the plumbing in the construction of a simple building that no one knows will build. When a malfunction occurs, it soaks up and retreats. And you're looking for and discovering this mistake and you don't know what it's all about. But if there's a consensus, you can react and still have one review, one record. I ask once again whether he will be identified for the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service which we have received today. It also draws attention to this issue in this article and then points out the problem under Article 128, so that I think that, at least beyond the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we cannot simply go without the proposal being defined for this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Croat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that again. It's obvious, Mr Weber, that you don't want to understand that there is now a new category in the construction of buildings. These are simple objects to be defined in the Regulation, so it was said that they would be defined in the Regulation as some urban equipment. That's how I understood it. And I, as an urban equipment, understand the tick, what a gentleman without foundation. This is not an object for which we need to notify the works. See again, under the new law we will have simple objects - these are the objects we are talking about - undesirable objects for which we will need some way of notification of works - very similar - then there will be less demanding objects and difficult objects. So, we're talking about that first category, about non-requisitional objects that will in some way, as I said, be defined in the rulebook, so it was said, like urban equipment, which means a bench without foundation. And that's all this is about. Therefore, in order to need the consent of an economic infrastructure manager, I think it is absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I don't know if it's what you say it is, then I agree that this amendment is irrelevant. But if it is as I understand it - and I simply cannot find it, I admit that I have not dealt with it in detail and I have not even found a member of the committee, but I do not find in Article 1, where we are talking about the meaning of the individual terms, but now I am asking the applicant, or Article 1, of the existing law, in point 1.9, where we are talking about simple objects, writes: 1.9 a simple object, I understand that this point is still valid - or not valid, so I would like to explain your explanation. "A simple object is a structure of a less demanding object, which does not need a special static- and construction-technical verification which is not intended for the residence and is not an environmental object. Simple objects are classified as auxiliary facilities, temporary facilities, exercise facilities, memorial markings and urban equipment." Point 5 is what you call urban equipment. And then we have 1.9.1, auxiliary facilities, a facility for our own needs, because it serves to improve living conditions and agricultural and amateur activities of individuals and their families, and so on. Temporary object is an exercise facility, is also designed for sport, recreation [[Football, volleyball, handball and so on]] . Now I'm asking if I'm talking random nonsense, then I apologize, but if it's still a simple object what we have in 49.b. that "for simple objects and non-requisitive objects you don't have to acquire project conditions," that's to say, to my understanding what they put, then there's nothing going on together. And now I just want to make it clear. So when I also read the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, it speaks something like that. Therefore, the Legislative Service proposes the adoption of the second Amendment 49. or I do not know which Article 16 article - I do not know which article it is - so I apologize - which speaks of article 49.b, so. I would like to clarify that I also know how to decide when to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A barber, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thank you very much. For a little while. After our understanding and interpretation of what simple objects are and what their impact on infrastructure, such as in the ground, is, for one thing, to say that simple objects are not built, but stand up. Thus, building or building up in any way that they place in the space is done away with. Now, with regard to the simplicity of objects as objects that are - we estimate that there will be more than 3/4 objects of unwanted objects, i.e. with simple building permits. That quarter, which it will have or will need, will also take into account facilities that are lighter or have no greater appreciable impact with any possible impact on the infrastructure that is potentially threatened. And just this division between a classic house or an intervention into a space and you can put, if you want, a editing facility, a board, a bench or a temporary panorama, is the difference that we wanted to make in this. Here, my colleagues also show that during the transitional period it will be defined, that is, Article 120 - simple, non-requisitional objects which during the transitional period is defined Article 120 and can be seen, in the first, second and third indents, that bp the approval of the regulations referred to in the new paragraph, Article 8, paragraph 2, of the Act is considered to be complex objects under this Act all simple objects which meet the conditions laid down in the Regulation on the types of demanding, less demanding and simple objects, on the conditions for the construction of simple buildings without a building permit and on the types of works that relate to objects and related land. And fourthly, regardless of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, until the provisions of the new second paragraph of Article 8 of the Act are applied, temporary facilities constructed for less than six months, urban equipment set up by the municipality and simple facilities which form part of the economic public infrastructure and other facilities which are for public benefit shall be considered simple facilities. In this way, we believe that we have actually made a very clear division between one and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Now I'm going to try again to illustrate this problem that will happen and is happening in practice. Even if this simple object is set up, so not to build, but as you say, build, then imagine an underground hydrant. It's not always clearly marked, it can be weededed, whatever, placed on this underground hydrant bench, specifically. You've got a fire. Then what are you gonna do? You can't find the hydrant where the trap is. You're not gonna go looking for it. Just one illustration. And another object, look! You put it in space, transparency on a public road can be very endangered. You haven't asked anyone anything, you've set up a gentleman, and you've got a trap that can reduce transparency, but we don't have to ask anyone about it in Slovenia - what we're setting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u152	Anyone else want a word? Mr. President and Mr. Mikolitch. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u153	Now, if we read this 120th article, I think it's true. However, I am now asking; I think, according to my assessment, that in Article 1, we should simply delete the definitions for simple objects, because now I really don't understand. We have a definition for simple objects where they are first, second, such, auxiliary, sports, I don't know what, exercise - and equipment at the end too. We have this definition, and if someone goes brother definition, they'll set up a football field without anything. Here I give my colleague Webru the right, from my own experience as well, and no matter how bad a lot of bad will there is right now, we're stalling things. But I really want to. I think it's missing, probably according to article 120, but I can't decide at this speed what's right now what's wrong. I apologize, but it seems to me that this definition of simple objects is in Article 1 of the existing law - I think it is the first - that, according to my assessment, it is superfluous. I don't know, because there's probably no article to mention that the definition of Article 1 is no longer in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u154	Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I hope and also believe that the definition is a simple object, that this is correctly written down. If there's a problem here, the bill will probably be told by the bill. I would like to mention the following: with regard to the co-rapporteur, we know that there is a great problem that we do not have a local community or public economic service or we do not have a cadaver of municipal waters. Of course now, if we want to look for hair in an egg - I would still suggest that we go home today. And if we already have major difficulties in giving consent to municipal water in those projects that we need, we know that we do, precisely because we do not have a cadastral of municipal waters and we do, in those cases, really often in practice, when an object is being built, there are certain problems, then it seems to me that it is unreasonable or illogical to be complicated now in one matter that we are going to call it simple objects that some of us understand here, and it is probably the opinion of the legislator that we are now going to be in the execution or implementation of this project - if we can even say that it is a project - and we are looking for the consent of all legislators. Now we should probably all know who the co-conspirators are if you want to do a certain intervention on the territory of a congregation. Yes, all of you! Not now just talk, yes water, electricity, gas, phone, cable TV and everything. You know, it would be quite easy if, for example, the municipalities - this, before I was reminded by my colleague Kokalj - if the municipalities were to issue a building permit, then this matter would probably be a little easier. But we do have a system of building permits that works right now, and it's probably going to stay that way in the future. If this is an object that has no foundation and is a installation or even set for a certain period of time, or can stand there for an indefinite period, then I do not see the need here to obtain the consent of all consentors. Because literally, because you can't - who will now define my co-conspirators. They are all potential co-operators because we don't know which waters are running at a specific location where someone would like to build, and if we've mentioned so many times today, a trap in the park. Not now, however, to exploit this and explain that by setting up certain poles there will be a certain lack of transparency and everything else that has been said. You know, you forget that we have congregations or congregations that are obliged to adopt certain laws that are laid down and, among other things, are somehow included in the legislation. You know what the Law on Local Roads and Public Roads contains, what is included in the Law on Public Order and Peace, which we also have adopted, and that I will not list all other legislation. And it clearly states what those interventions are allowed in this area - now I say that where the municipality regulates these matters, some do not. And if someone is really going to set up an object for which they don't need certain consents, then they're going to cause another problem, they're going to have to remove it from the side for this, tangulated, or whatever they say, municipal services, because they're going to cause a certain problem, or they're going to say, well, like I said, a problem in that space. But this has nothing to do with what I have just mentioned by obtaining consensus on the part of economic public infrastructure managers. That's why I can't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A barber, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Maybe there's just another reason. We used to base the changes in a simple building by building or the difference between construction and construction. Once again, I would like to say, as the dictatorship now states in Article 1, what is a simple object, which is now an object, according to the article, which is a structurally unnecessary object, which does not need a specific static and construction technical check, which is not intended for residence and is not an environmental object. And now to the established dilemma of simplification, as in the case of transparency, for example, and possible conflicts on the road or traffic accidents. Here we would like to say precisely in this case that we have other laws under the competence of other ministries, in which case the Law on Public Roads, for which any interference with transparency you must obtain consent only under this law and including supervision is carried out under this law. So here on this case, I wanted to say that it's not a flaw. Thank you. Secondly, removing these administrative barriers. Really, by getting a consensus on someone's records, about records that aren't, I'd say, really high-class pleonazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. We also had a long debate on this issue on the committee, and we have resolved some things, and we have all been united. Now we're repeating the same story. Some are already overreacting a little, and I will be exaggerating; but I will not exaggerate anything more than others, perhaps even a little less, just a practical example. Each individual house has a bunch of utility lines, connections. It is not necessary for those who then use these spaces to know exactly where the water connection is and to remain. And if he wants to build a dog box, it certainly belongs to those simplest objects, but now he's going to have to start thinking if he wants to put it here, which water could be below, but he doesn't know whether it's an electrical connection, or a water connection, or whether it's a sewer or a gas connection. Who should I tell now? Let him go ahead on the reserve, tell everyone he's gonna put up a dog box, and he's not quite sure if he's up there on their water. What if a dog box can move two meters to the left or two meters to the right? He'll just go from one water to another. That's it and nothing else. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I said I'd be exaggerating, just like others are exaggerating. It's exactly the same. These aren't objects that have foundations, but -- I don't know what to say -- objects if they're not objects that stand up and you can move it anywhere you want. And also that saying that you put a trap where you have an underground hydrant. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] How do you know there's an underground hydrant in there? Who else if I don't know what kind of pipe it is? All kind of stuff. And there's a thing you can move if it's found to be an underground hydrant, it'll just move two meters to the right. But you have to keep someone in the loop for that, and you don't know who! Please. Then let us reclassify that it is necessary to have a building permit, and once again one official in the administrative unit or in the city congregation will give you a number. And what have we achieved? Then we're on where we are now. Why are we changing this marriage? It's beautifully written. It's beautifully written. A bunch of things are written. I find that some things may not be, but perhaps because they are not the exact definition, then there may be some bureaucratic whim. But we're changing it because, as we are doing now, we also had it before that procedure that was five years ago -- I don't know, don't take my word for it, it could have been ten years ago. We are doing the same thing, in the end, if we want to complicate things a little bit, and add some additional restrictions, and it is precisely because of these limitations that we have gone into a change of law. We have waited so long with this law to find out all the possible elements: what is too much, what is too normal, what could be simplified. This marriage could probably have been earlier because it was expected earlier, but the minister probably wasn't waiting for this moment for free. I'm not gonna say he's been waiting, I'm gonna say he's waiting until it's been figured out what can be simplified. But every thing can't be simplified. But now it's probably what's ahead of us, exactly what can be simplified. That is why the Minister has now come with this law, we wanted to adopt it more quickly, and then we have also adopted this option to go into a one-month decree to make a public presentation of the opinions. And I think we did the right thing. But we could go quietly without it, but good. Since this is already a more political issue, we have made this effort. Today, however, we have come to terms with the situation that there is no point in us being complicated again and coming into the same solutions as we had before, even though perhaps in a smaller segment. But I think we've been discussing so much that we've probably found that if we put this together, if we confirmed it, we'd just be grading, I think it's a pretty good law that tried to get rid of these things. That way, I will not support this amendment in any way, because everyone has already convinced me on the committee. Today there was no argument, only the arguments were of a kind like I said when I said I would complicate things a little bit. And there was no argument that really convinced me. That is how I remain in this regard, and we have also remained on the Committee and previously in coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Croat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. Now I'm kind of embarrassed. People are looking at us, and we're actually talking about the most trivial thing in this marriage. But if someone doesn't understand the repeated dictatorship so many times, it has to be repeated. Look, I'm wondering if we can finally distinguish what the new category is talking about being a simple object -- it's going to be a very simple object because it's going to be urban equipment. And this new rule that will be drawn up will define exactly that. That's why we don't need any agreement on the layout. But as for this, what you said earlier about road transparency issues, it is true that what you have been told before - there are other laws that impose exactly what the distance from the road must be. But as mayor, you certainly have a decision about these things, about local roads, how far can A lady, say, with the election campaign you have, let's say, every so long, how far away from the sidewalk or the edge of the road must put some sort of pana; surely you have this. So once again, it must be said that it would be pure nonsense for such objects, that is, for some urban equipment, a trap and the like, to seek some agreement. Really! Now I won't be answering anymore, because now it's really enough.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to bother you all for a few minutes Friday afternoon. I apologize for missing one subparagraph in Article 1 of the new amendment, where points 1.9.1, 1.9.2, 1.9.3, 1.9.4 and 1.9.5. are deleted. That's why I'm taking my previous comment or question back, because a colleague from the Ministry explained it to me and showed it; in this crowd, I missed it. Of course, if Comrade Petan is making a bit of a joke about this law, he is giving such banal cases, but I will say this, a simple object is, in this new article, a constructively unrequited object that does not need a special static- and construction technical check, which is not intended to reside and is not an environmental object. Now, a dog's ooze can also have an environmental impact, because it can keep the neighbors from sleeping at night if the dog barks all night. So in this case, if you're giving out banal cases and you're getting a little nervous if you hear from someone. So, once again, thank you so much for warning me that this is being deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. We'll be deciding on the amendments in half an hour, that's 4:00. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u165	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on the prevention of domestic violence, the regular procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We decide on the first amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. I note that 56 Members and Members voted for 11 to 42. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendment number two and three irrelevant. Excuse me! I heard right, but I'm sorry. We're voting on the second amendment. I note that there were 60 votes in favour and 59 votes in favour against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] We decide on the third amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There were 62 votes in favour and 12 in favour against 46. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 10.a. We're voting. 64 Members and Members voted for 58 against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 10.b. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 61 in favour against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 14. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the first amendment of Article 16 of the SNS Group. If the amendment is adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 41. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of Article 16 of the SNS Group. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the third amendment of Article 16 of the SNS Group. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 4. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Resais Group to Article 31. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment to Article 32. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 36. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since the amendments to more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted in the second reading of the amended draft law, the assembly will hold the third reading of the draft law at the next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 58, against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 16. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, for 20, for 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the first amendment of the SD Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 20, for 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the SD Group to Article 29. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 20, for 41. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, the amendments in the third reading are not possible to be tabled, and therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. You've shown the right direction. According to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Commission, which we will also hear, there is a possibility that the law is inconsistent. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, in its opinion you received on the bench today, the Legislative and Legal Service pointed to certain issues, solutions where the elements of non-compliance appear. We have also pointed out Article 49b, but given that the solutions to this Article were not opened at the previous second reading, of course there are no business conditions for the necessary coordination. With regard to the warnings concerning Article 49c, we believe that the proposed solutions, which have been significantly improved at second reading at the home working body, are, however, not fully in line with the applicable energy regulation. We have explicitly highlighted the area of the pipeline network where we have an arrangement not of safety belts, but of course the regulations under the law govern otherwise named areas in which the area is protected for the safety of these systems and of course the safety of the provision of services. Here we believe that it would be necessary, because we have a so-called safety belt as well as a controlled belt, and, in the meantime, only a controlled belt has, by its application, the purpose of the safety belt, as set out in the proposed amendment to the law, in order to bring the transitional provisions into line with the provisions of this law, so that the law provides that the controlled belt, namely to the system regime, is treated as a buffer belt under the provisions of this law. We also had a footnote to Article 128 and pointed out the legal inadmissibility of this solution and the necessary compliance with the legislation in force. This is the question of the application of the provisions of the law governing certain issues relating to the construction of a motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia. These provisions are intended to apply to energy facilities, to the acquisition of real estate for the purposes of their construction. However, the Law-Legal Service has always warned that this law has been time-consumingly exceeded. Indeed, as to how to demonstrate the right to build for the purposes of these facilities, reference is made to provisions of laws that are no longer in force today. For this reason, we believe that this alignment with existing legislation is also essential. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you very much. On the basis of your words, I believe that the law is not harmonised, so there is no debate on this, but I am informing and asking the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment by Monday, when we will also discuss this harmonisation amendment and decide on Monday evening in the framework of the votes. There is no debate on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. If you want procedural, for the first time. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u168	Respectable present, but I really think that's just a little too much now. No amendment was adopted in the legislative process of the parliamentary debate. What will the harmonisation amendment come to? Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia come up with a copy of it for treatment on the home working body or will the amendment to the harmonisation amendment under the second reading that took place today? No amendments were adopted. On my part, I think there has been a mistake by the Legislative and Legal Service, which this would be necessary to alert the National Assembly in the context of when the law came into the parliamentary procedure. I do not blame the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I do not blame any of the members of the National Assembly, but the fact is that they have found that a limited law has been inconsistent with what - Mr President, I ask you - with what has happened to the disagreement that the Legislative and Legal Service has found, after so long and so long, that this disagreement has occurred. In connection with what? Please, if you'll answer me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece. It could probably happen if I sat the other way around. And to the question you have asked me, I cannot answer because in this case she was the representative of the Legal and Legal Service who is responsible and who gives an opinion on the Legal and Legal Service. Thank you. Procedurally, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I would really ask if the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service would come back and tell us all Members what this law is inconsistent with. And another point: Why didn’t she mention this before this law even came into the National Assembly? In view of the fact that this law has been amended at no point in consideration in this National Assembly, it is said that no amendment that would have been adopted has led to non-compliance. The law has been inconsistent before, and please, if the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service can come back and explain to us why the law is inconsistent, and if it is inconsistent, let him withdraw from this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I agree with what they've said. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u172	Dear Members and Members! After the end of this agenda item, and after consulting the President of the National Assembly, I have decided that, on the basis of all the dilemmas that have arisen in the implementation of both the Government's representatives and the Legal and Legislative Service, we should settle the matter, sleep it down and proceed with this item of the agenda when everything is brought into line, on Monday evening in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I'm breaking this agenda. [[...]] Procedurally, please. And no violence, please. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u173	Look, I don't need to wear that shirt my colleague Shirtz wears today because I don't commit any violence. I just want to read you Article 69 of the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, I believe that you too, Mr Vice-President, and above all those who advise you on the right hand side, should respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and not their own opinions and views. And in the place where you are sitting, you must follow this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u175	69. Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure states: "A Member who wishes to speak on the use of the Rules of Procedure shall have a procedural question to the President as soon as he requests it." Don't say, "Contestant of the opposition," but say "messenger," to every one of the '90s in this room, as soon as he demands it. You didn't let me do that. Now. Why did I apply for a procedural question? I think the Rules of Procedure are very clear, and previous colleagues have already warned about this before me, so there is no reason to interrupt this point and to meet today. All the reasons are met for the decision. Article 139 makes it very clear that "if no amendment has been adopted in the second reading of the amended bill, the National Assembly at the same meeting shall proceed to the vote on the law." In no provision of this Rules of Procedure can I find the opportunity that you have given to the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service to express a position that has no weight in this case. For this reason, I propose, Mr Vice-President, that you respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that in the future, when a Member is notified of the word, whether it is an opposition or a coalition Member, you give him the opportunity to say what he wishes, in accordance with Article 69, as soon as he so requests, and that we conclude with the consideration of this point today, as we say in the Rules of Procedure, so that we make a final decision on the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. Thus, the Legislative and Legal Service has warned us in plenary that the law is inconsistent. We still do not know which title the law is inconsistent with: whether the law is inconsistent with the non-adoption of any amendment under the legislative procedure or because of the framework of the functioning of the parent labour body. And from this place, Mr President, I ask you to ensure the presence of a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service to explain where the non-compliance occurred. Whether they follow the words of my colleague Zvonko Černač, who says that we should go to the third reading, because no amendment was adopted in the second reading, and I agree with him on this point. However, if there is actually a discrepancy between the individual articles, it is necessary to determine why the Legislative and Legal Service did not point to this in the introduction of the legislative procedure, why it did not respond to this by the parent labour body. And these are the dilemmas that are open today. I therefore propose whether you conclude the legislative procedure under this law at this time and now, and whether the Government prepares a law that will be harmonised, the articles themselves, or whether there may be a discrepancy between this law and the other laws, or whether you ensure the presence of a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. It seems to me in person that, given that we have a legal dilemma at this time, there is no representative of the Legal and Legislative Service sitting here. Basically, it should, at this point and now, tell us where the non-compliance of the law is taking place. In fact, we do not know this; we only know that there is a lack of coordination, but we do not know where the source of this disharmony is: whether it is the parent working body or whether it is possible to reject the amendment in the context of the second reading at the parliamentary session. Please do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-14-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much. All I want to say is that the marital disharmony could also have occurred on the parent’s working body and that this must also be taken into account. So I would insist on my decision and say that I never intend to make a decision, but I always do. In this case, too, we have consulted. My colleague Peca would probably also consult, and I would probably ask Mr President of the National Assembly or someone else what I think in such a situation. So I did it myself, so based on everything we agreed on, I interrupt the agenda and interrupt the meeting.
