ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning! Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! We begin with the continuation of the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovic, Roberto Battelli, Franz Kangler and Bojan Kontic. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 10. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - AND ORDER TO DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE COURT'S LAW, DEFINITIVE PROCEDURE. We have an estimated 50 minutes for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Minister of Justice Dr. Lovro Sturm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly. Today's amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Act are necessary in the view of the Government to enable effective and independent or impartial detection and prosecution of perpetrators of crimes, whether they are members or officials of the police, military police, intelligence and security services or who are sent on a mission abroad. The Act in force on criminal proceedings in relation to all offences, irrespective of the status of the suspect, provides that the police are responsible for detecting suspects and collecting information in the forecasting procedure, for prosecuting perpetrators and, in this regard, for directing the forecasting process, the State Prosecutor's Office. For example, there may be certain doubts about the impartiality of the police when exercising powers regarding suspects who are members of the same police force. An arrangement is proposed for cases where suspects in crime are members of the police, military police, intelligence and security services or are assigned to a mission abroad. The powers of detection and prosecution will be transferred to the police and state prosecutors who will be assigned to the new specialised section of the Public Prosecutors' Unit for the Prosecution of Organised Crime at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. In the proposal for a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the scope of the centralised police investigation of the offences of the said persons is thus to be dealt with in an organisational manner. Thus, within the specialized department of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, a number of police officers or other persons with police powers will also be assigned. Those seconded officers will be centrally directed directly by the state prosecutors in that section for the purposes of detecting the offences of those officials referred to, as in the current Criminal Procedure Act, they are already directing the police. If I were to be asked what are the main reasons for such a proposed legal solution, I would like to point out in the first place the two important judgments. The first is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of July 2006, which points out that an independent system of organisation and procedures in the investigation of offences committed by the police should be made possible in this regard. Another important court decision is the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the Mother v Slovenia case, which was decided on the month of November also last year. This Decision also explicitly points out, like the Constitutional Court’s decision, that the fourth paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution of Slovenia should be understood by including the right to an independent or impartial investigation of the circumstances of an event in which a person is to be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading conduct by the police. The purpose of the law is to ensure that the detection of perpetrators and criminal offences and the prosecution of offenders will be as effective as possible in terms of effective investigation, in particular violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms. On the other hand, there is an increase in public confidence in the work of the police and other repressive authorities, which are subject to both legal changes. Finally, the proposed legislative change is also a contribution to the Government's efforts to eliminate corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u3	Minister, thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. The committee president, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, will present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman. Welcome to the Minister of Justice, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At its 30th urgent meeting on 17 January, the Committee of the President of the National Assembly decided at its 84th meeting to consider the procedure as an urgent procedure. The representative of the applicant pointed out in the supplementary explanation that the essential reason for the preparation of this proposal was the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in a particular case, found a violation of the right to an effective protection of the right referred to in Article 15, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of Slovenia and in relation to Article 13 of the European Convention on Human Rights, since no judicial assessment of the operation of police officers had taken place in the specific case, the house investigation and the death of the suspect. He went on to give a more precise explanation of the reason why they proposed amending the laws. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Service had examined both draft laws, both the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office currently under consideration and the Law on Criminal Procedure, which will be dealt with under the following point, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, and also gave its opinion. The PSC thus drew attention to the relative, in their view, limited scope of taking into account both those decisions, in particular as regards the decisions of the Constitutional Court as the European Court of Justice also to the urgent provision of effective access to the investigation procedure by the injured party or its members. Furthermore, in the view of the SPS, it is necessary to consider a more comprehensive amendment, in particular in order to fully implement those decisions with regard to the provision of an independent investigation, a broader legal system approach and a review of the arrangements also need to be considered, in particular, of certain other legal provisions, namely the most specifically the Police Act and its 29th Article, which regulates the procedure in the event of police misconduct. In the debate on individual members at the Committee meeting, the most important attention was given by the members and members of the Committee to the fundamental issues that are clear and which were already mentioned in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. An opinion was raised on the proposal for a law on the timing of prosecution of officials and on why the proposal covers all crimes. Furthermore, it has been pointed out whether all the necessary rights are guaranteed in the pre-trial and subsequent criminal proceedings, whether the creation of the special section in question in the prosecution is the right way to resolve the problem and whether the envisaged staffing and financial structure of the newly established department is sufficient for its effective functioning. It was also pointed out and stressed that police violence could not be eliminated and prevented only by means of a modified investigation method, but through education, a higher level of police and legal culture, as well as better supervision and the restriction of direct police powers. The representative of the proposer replied to the questions raised and stressed that the Government had found the best and fastest solution in order to establish a system as soon as possible, allowing as much as possible to rule out doubts about the expertise and impartiality of the detection of criminal offences and their perpetrators from a specific set of officials of the repressive authorities. With regard to the timing of the definition of the possibility of prosecution, he explained that it relates only to offences or to suspicions of criminal offences at a time when officials are also actually appointed to these functions. The meeting was also attended by Attorney General Barbara Brezigar and explained the position of the Prosecutor's Office and said that the direction in which the law was being amended was the right one. For so far there have been certain shortcomings in the investigation of suspicions of abuse of police authority in this regard, and they were also bound to police reports. The Committee adopted all the articles of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u5	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u6	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! It's a beautiful day for all of us! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, solves the very important and sensitive problem of detecting and punishing the crimes of police officers and other repressive authorities in the country. The reason for the drafting of the law is certainly the decision of the Constitutional Court and the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights relating to the supervision of allegedly inadequate police conduct in specific cases. The law thus proposes the introduction of a special section in the State Prosecutors' Unit for the Prosecution of Organised Crime in the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which will have the power to prosecute officials in the repressive authorities who are perpetrators of crimes. In addition, in cooperation with the police, it will endeavour to reduce the violation of the right of individuals by officials of repressive authorities. It is certainly the very important objectives of the law under consideration. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect this special section to be successful in its work. The lack of respect for fundamental rights and freedoms on the part of the police has been a major issue in recent times, so it is imperative to carry out all procedures that can be confirmed or rejected in a rapid and effective manner. We also expect that a special section of the organised crime prosecution team will ensure effective control over possible errors in the work of the repressive authorities and allow for a sufficiently high degree of independence of this control. If a special section proves effective in its work, this will in itself contribute to increasing the confidence of our citizens both in the work of the police and other repressive authorities and certainly in the greater security of citizens and the country as such. Successful work and effective supervision in cases where this is necessary will also reduce the different perceptions of the media and the professional public as to when police or repressive authorities exceed their powers under individual material laws. In view of this, we will support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be given by colleague Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I must say that, first of all, I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has, for a long time, come up with a law in which there is no indication in the explanation that the adoption of the law will reduce the judicial backlog in the Slovenian courts. The law provides for the establishment of a specialised department within the National Prosecutors' Unit for the Prosecution of Organised Crime at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. This section is intended to enable the effective and impartial detection and prosecution of perpetrators of crimes who are officials of a particular circle of repressive authorities, in particular, we are talking about the police. The question, however, is whether the news brought by the law that we are adopting today will really bring greater security for the individual when it comes to crimes or irregularities in the work of the police. Yesterday, I think it was yesterday or the day before, someone very gravely warned us that we must respect the profession. Part of the profession, hand to heart, those who have read the law better and also its opinions, points out that there will be no greater security. However, the criticism is sufficient before the adoption of the law itself, so that we can ask ourselves about its credibility or needs. To refer to a judgment of the European Court of Justice and a judgment of the Constitutional Court - neither one nor the other do not require us to change the system, which was formally rather well placed, but because of the lack of will within the Ministry and in particular the law enforcement authorities did not work. Therefore, it seems to me that we have to change some system, some well-designed system to change just because it is - well, hiding behind some judgment of the European Court, a little unrealistic or misleading. Perhaps some people and some activities within individual ministries should be overwinded. The second question that comes to my mind is whether, now that we are introducing two new state prosecutors and one deputy, three new people are said to be involved; for the first time, we are extending the circle of people with a permanent mandate, some protection against anyone and these three people or two, in the beginning, we should deal with about 500 crimes, as many as there are in our country right now. I wonder if this is a large enough group of people who will handle a relatively large number of crimes. Are we really solving this problem with three new employees? The second thing I'm wondering is, if they're effective enough, they'll be thorough enough to do their job. I've heard or read that they're also supposed to come from the police, so we're going back to the system somehow, even today the police have investigated the crimes that have taken place or have been blamed by someone who's been coming inside the police. I don't know what we're putting in. Second question. What part of the bill provides effective access to the investigation procedure by the injured party or its members? I didn't find this in my marriage. However, I have to say that I am delighted that, for a long time, the Ministry of Justice has also found financial implications in the bill, €325 000 488 or €78 million of Slovenian tolars if I turn into a better currency. I also want to know where these funds are provided, in which part of the budget or if they are not yet, tell me which ministry will be the one that loses these funds, or whether it is a reallocation within the financial structure in the justice ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr DeSUS will be represented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr Minister. The fundamental finding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights is that in our country, at a systemic level, an independent investigation into the circumstances of overstepping police powers is provided. The government has responded to this call and has proposed to the legislative procedure the amendment of two laws aimed at remedying this problem, namely, a specialised unit consisting of prosecutors and police, which will be solely responsible for detecting, investigating and prosecuting perpetrators of all police, military police and military intelligence. The introduction of the latter is intended to eliminate cesovo solidarity and at the same time ensure an impartial, independent investigation into the actions of those bodies. The position of the DeSUS Group is that the State is obliged in cases of police violence to ensure an independent, impartial, thorough, immediate and effective investigation. Such conduct also stems from the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as the European Court has already warned us, it is not just a problem related solely to the conduct of the police, but to the problem of the functioning of the entire Slovenian judiciary when we are talking about independent investigation, overstepping of police powers and their alleged human rights violations. In Marko’s case, the request for an independent investigation was not satisfied by the competent state prosecutor, who failed to demonstrate independence at work, but relied entirely on the findings of the police and the internal ministry, and after a year and a half of the investigation he resigned from prosecution. We certainly agree with the conclusion that the control of the police, which, through the powers of the police and the internal ministry themselves, is regulated by the Police Act, does not meet the criterion after an independent investigation, so the State must find other ways, and this is the establishment of a special special prosecution team within the framework of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, which will be composed of professionally qualified officers with police powers. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the adoption of such a solution will significantly increase public confidence in the rule of law, in the functioning of the police and other state bodies. Of course, it will be necessary to continue to take care of the concrete conduct of the police, the prosecution and the courts or the responsible persons in the cases under consideration, and of the position and impact of the injured person as victims of police violence on the course of the proceedings that protect their rights. The proposed amendments are intended to ensure that the State provides an independent investigation into the circumstances of the alleged violation of human rights, to allow complainants effective access to investigations and to ensure that the functioning of the competent authorities is transparent and independent. The question that arises is whether or not it would be more prudent to focus attention now on an effective prosecution led and directed by the State Prosecutor's Office to focus on the establishment of effective internal control and external complaints routes, which concern the amendment of the Police Act. [[...]] The draft law will be supported by DeSUS Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you. Member Dimitrij Kovačič will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister with a co-worker. The effective rule of law also provides for the effective detection of crimes committed and the effective prosecution of their perpetrators. This can be achieved if the law enforcement authorities are as qualified and independent as possible in their work. And it is their independence that can be questioned whether the perpetrators of the crimes are the official police, and then the police themselves are responsible for the detection of the perpetrators of these crimes. Of course, there can be legitimate doubts as to whether the police authorities acting against their own employees can be objective enough to do their job. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights have also identified such a question as determining that the current regulation in Slovenia for citizens and other persons in Slovenia in the case of criminal offences committed by the police in the exercise of powers in the pre-trial procedure does not provide adequate independent criminal investigation of the facts against the conduct of the police, since suspects of such offences are police officers and, following the current provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, are the competent police to detect them. So we can say that in such cases the police are investigating only themselves, which in itself does not guarantee objectivity, impartiality and independence. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed amendment of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office by eliminating the current inadequate regime and ensuring the State's obligation to effectively protect an individual from unauthorised interference in his life, integrity and dignity, while ensuring the right to effective legal protection in the event of such interventions. This, however, can ensure that the police are not in charge of the detection of suspects of criminal offences committed by officials in the police and that this obligation is transferred to another body. And this other body is, according to the provisions of the law under consideration, a specialised section of the Public Prosecutors' Unit for the Prosecution of Organised Crime, where police and state prosecutors are deployed to deal with such crimes. This will ensure significantly greater independence and objectivity at the stage of the forecasting process, as has been regulated so far. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we believe that this amendment, which we are considering, has taken an important step towards fulfilling the instructions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, which require the provision of an independent criminal investigation in the event of criminal offences committed by the police. Of course, we also deal here with those who are employees of other repressive authorities. As we say, we will therefore support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The proposed amendment states as the main objective of the amendment of the introduction of a special section of the National Prosecutors' Unit for the Prosecution of Organised Crime at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which will have the power to prosecute perpetrators of crimes who are officials in certain repressive bodies, and that it will have the possibility of greater police direction so that infringements of the rights and freedoms of individuals by officials of repressive authorities in a larger number and more effectively prosecuted. As a reason for the amendment, the applicant also cites the decision of two courts, one is the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Mother. In specific cases, the courts find that there is no effective remedy against police violence in Slovenia, which is against the constitutionally guaranteed protection of fundamental human rights. The basic statement of both decisions does not concern legal regulation, but rather the concrete conduct of the police, the prosecution and the courts in the cases under consideration, and the situation and impact of the victim of police violence on the course of the proceedings which protects his rights. What does the Constitutional Court say in the present case? It states that in cases such as these, the State must ensure an independent investigation into the circumstances of the event and allow effective access to such an investigation for the applicants. The State did not provide such an investigation. And what does the European Court of Human Rights say in the Mother case? He says the state's prosecutor's action was not sufficiently transparent and independent. The Attorney General did not take any separate steps towards clarifying the matter. The investigation of the complainant's allegations of mistreatment was slow and demeaning. The authorities have not conducted effective investigations into alleged police misconduct. According to the findings of both courts, an effective investigation is therefore capable of providing quality material for the successful execution of the criminal procedure. In our view, however, these proposed changes are incompatible with defined objectives. Indeed, if we are indeed dealing with the systemic shortcomings of our legislation, the adoption of the law should be proposed on a regular basis. Systematic shortcomings cannot be addressed without a prior discussion, both in professional circles and without analysis of the actual situation, without a set of possible solutions and not on the basis of just two cases. This is about cesovo solidarity, which cannot be equated with corruption. And corruption is not prevented by repression. We have seen this a number of times in this National Assembly. Police violence is not prevented by a modified investigation, but by education, a higher level of police and legal culture, better supervision, the restriction of direct police powers. Interestingly, the proposaler did not mention, for example, the European Court of Human Rights rulings on Reebook v Slovenia, where the court imposed measures on the country of Slovenia, i.e. education, training of additional police officers, etc. I would like to point out that both decisions concern, in particular, the situation and rights of the injured person and that the draft law does not address the situation of the victim at all. The new rule that for the prosecution of all crimes of police officers is solely the responsibility of a specialised prosecutor's department, which also raises doubts or even the possibility of a private or subsidiary prosecution. Both decisions criticise the fact that in Slovenia there is no effective investigation into the use of unnecessary and excessive police violence and incoherence in its repression. In order to improve this, it would be necessary to substantially amend the Police Act. Well, I would not continue to mention the dilemma that naturally arises to us in this amendment of the law. Finally, let me just add this: neither the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights nor the decision of the Constitutional Court require us to introduce a new system in the field of police control. That is also why there is an urgent procedure in our view of the farce. And in the LDS, we cannot support such hand-to-hand changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good morning! The Group of Social Democrats shall adopt and support the reasons for the proposal of this Act. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Court of Human Rights find that the current regulation does not provide for an appropriate independent criminal investigation for citizens and other persons in the Republic of Slovenia in the event of an investigation into offences committed by the police in the management of their duties. Effective legal protection, especially in the forecasting process, cannot be ensured because the perpetrators and persons investigating the detection of the perpetrators are members of the same authority, the police. Thus, in a particular case, Mother, and perhaps ever again, happened that instead of the police helping the victim, there was neither willingness nor determination nor assurance to tell who the potential perpetrators were on the part of the police, how they acted. Suddenly, the victim became a victim in a new procedure and this is why it is necessary to find out how to ensure that the exercise of rights violated by the police at the time of the investigation would be guaranteed to a greater extent in criminal proceedings. As a result of such cases, the government is probably proposing to regulate this issue by setting up a specialised department in future cases for such, as well as similar cases in the context of the Special Prosecutor's Group, which will exclusively prosecute all crimes if the perpetrators are of police or other similar repressive bodies. Specialized prosecutors and police officers will be involved in carrying out these tasks. According to the opinion of some legal experts, the Group of Social Democrats is not convinced whether the proposed solution to achieve the stated objectives of the law is indeed the only right and best. The Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights require guarantees for effective legal protection against police conduct in the performance of their duties, in particular in the exercise of police powers where abuses and violations of human rights are possible. However, the Constitutional Court and the Court of Human Rights do not require special regulation in all other cases where the police officer is suspected of serving a crime; for example, if he commits a traffic accident, a property offense, a blood defect and so on, he will now be dealt with separately, not in the same way as other citizens. However, the government has decided on this second, a broader option, which has not been required, in the opinion of many experts and has also raised the question of whether such a distinction, which will now be established in the law, is indeed in line with the Constitution or not. The distinction now will not be due to the service and protection of any injured person, but will result from the function or work performed by an individual. Whoever's a cop will have special treatment. Not in cases where a police officer is suspected of using funds that constitute a violation of human rights in the performance of his duties. I think the reasons for such a decision of the Government were not universally reasoned, it was said, it is possible, we have decided so - and nothing more. At the same time, we believe that this serious issue, which has not been clarified, is being raised, despite the fact that such a proposal from the Ministry of Justice has also been supported by the Attorney-General and the Ministry of the Interior. Therefore, the parliamentary group will not oppose the bill because it is necessary, but because of the open questions raised by this law and because of the fact that it does not comply with constitutional provisions and the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, it will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you. Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar will give the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you again, and thank you very much. In early November, the Republic of Slovenia received another monetary reminder from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. This time it was not a decision concerning the violation of the right to a trial without undue delay, but it was a conviction for police conduct, when the State did not provide an independent, thorough and effective investigation in the case of Mother, who claimed in the 1998 lawsuit that the police had mistreated him, beaten him and interrogated him, and his claims were not properly investigated by the State and, consequently, their claims were not properly investigated by the State. Even before the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights, our Constitutional Court has also ruled on a similar case of police violence, that in such cases it is necessary to ensure an independent investigation into the circumstances of an event in which a person is to be subjected to torture or inhumane treatment by the national repression authorities or, more so, if a person has lost his life during an action. The proposed amendments to the Public Prosecutor's Act seek to follow the findings of both courts, and in particular the shortcomings demonstrated by practice and faced by prosecutors and authorities in such cases. Amendments to the law are therefore established within the framework of a group of prosecutors for specific tasks by a specialised department that will prosecute perpetrators of all crimes from the police and other repressive authorities who are officials. The department will also be able to direct the police to detect these crimes and perpetrators. In Novi Slovenija, we reject the evidence that the possibility of harming people or victims, who have been quite irresponsible today, would have been reduced because of this pay phone. Nothing will detract from the possibility of the injured party to the investigation procedure, as the applicable Criminal Procedure Act allows the injured person to participate in all stages of the proceedings and, in this regard, also to take over the prosecution if the State Prosecutor withdraws from it. In addition, these rights are governed by other laws. In New Slovenia, we will support the proposed changes to the law because we believe that the independent body will make it easier to ensure the impartiality of the police and the state prosecutor's office in investigating crimes. Therefore, the basic purpose pursued by the changes is to ensure the position of New Slovenia. Of course, problems arise not only in the conduct of the police but also in the systemic problem of the functioning of the entire judiciary, in this context also when dealing with the investigation of violations of police powers and their alleged human rights violations. An effective investigation will therefore be the one that will also contribute to better conclusions in the context of judicial proceedings. That is why we will support the law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the draft law in the context of the urgent procedure. We will vote on the law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure. The hearing shall take place on an urgent basis. We have 2 hours and 35 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council, so I ask the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm, to give my opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The reasons for the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act have already stated several times the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which must not be forgotten, dealt with the conduct of the police in 2000 and of the European Court of Human Rights, which dealt with police violations that took place in 1995 and which I have presented in the previous paragraph. The law in force on criminal proceedings in relation to all offences, irrespective of the status of the suspect, provides that the police are responsible for detecting suspects and collecting information in the forecasting procedure, for prosecuting perpetrators and in this regard also for directing the forecasting procedure, and for the prosecution of the state. Therefore, there may be doubts about the impartiality of the police in exercising their powers regarding suspects who are members of the same police force. The only exception is provided in Article 158 of the Criminal Procedure Act relating to the offence committed in the Slovenian Army, when the military police or the intelligence and security services have certain powers, but within the defence system. This bill therefore requires amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act by allowing for the effective and independent or impartial detection and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences, which have been repeatedly mentioned by officials. In view of the more detailed presentation given at the previous point, here I point out only one substantive solution to this bill. Although the first paragraph of the proposed new Article of the Criminal Procedure Act provides that in those circumstances all police powers in the forecasting procedure shall be transferred to the police of the specialised department, the subsequent fourth and fifth paragraphs shall specifically provide for the power to detain or seize liberty. We believe that it is necessary for police officers of the specialised department to be empowered to enter police, Slovenian military or foreign missions which, according to the various doctrines, may have specific security systems and a certain number of persons who can move in such areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you. In this case, the draft law was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. The committee president, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, will present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure was also addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 30th emergency meeting and, as stated, the urgency procedure was decided by the College of the President of the National Assembly at the proposal of the proposer. In its supplementary explanation, the representative stressed that the proposal to amend the law on criminal procedure made it possible to detect and prosecute perpetrators of criminal offences who are members of the police, the military police, the intelligence and security services or members of foreign missions effectively or impartially. The existing Criminal Procedure Act provides, irrespective of the status of the suspect, that the police are responsible for the detection of suspects and the collection of information in the pre-trial procedure, for the prosecution of perpetrators and in this regard also for the direction of the pre-trial procedure, and the State Prosecutor's Office has also proposed amendments, as mentioned in the preceding paragraph. Representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service who participated in the meeting made their comments, which I mentioned in the previous report, and therefore would not have referred to them here again. There was no debate on the Committee, and the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 was adopted, as well as all the articles of the law together below, and the Committee therefore proposes them to be admitted to this esteemed assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be given by Mr Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you once again for the word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The law that we have listened to before, and the law before us, are so closely linked, so closely connected that they have little meaning without each other. These proposed amendments introduced by this Act should allow for the effective detection and prosecution of offenders who are members of the police, the military police, the intelligence and security services or are sent on a mission abroad. It must be said that the law, as proposed, had only four articles as a proposal for a law. I stress this because perhaps this afternoon we will meet with a similar law, and I believe that it is not quantity that matters, but the quality of the law. I believe that four articles had to be amended in this law. However, it is very interesting that two out of four articles are in transitional provisions and two articles have been commented on by the Legislative and Legal Service. So, a marriage that was made very quickly. Not a proposal for a law before us, nor a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the State Prosecutor's Office Act, do they provide for the possibility of independent investigation of State violence in cases where individuals were unable to report a crime or if there were obstacles to the imposition of a criminal procedure, but simply provide an independent investigation in the context of criminal proceedings; therefore, if there are grounds for suspicion that it is an offence pursued under an official obligation. I would like to stress once again, as I have pointed out in the previous law, and forgive me if I repeat myself, but the law is really connected - in which part of the bill, either one or the other, provides effective access for the injured person or his relatives to the investigation procedure? I don't think it's in one or the other proposal. And reference to the provisions of the European Court of Justice and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I have to touch them. I heard in the presentations that we got a cash warning. I believe that none of us sitting here believe in money warnings, but money fines and fines. Unless it's a practice that is applied at the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of the Interior and I would be very happy to have it explained to me that when we talk about monetary warnings, that means that I have been paid in cash, but I don't have to pay. I have to admit, and I'd like to admit, or I don't want to, I've got a couple of cash warnings about parking failures, and I'm still wondering if they've warned me or if I have to pay. When we are talking about judicial failures, Slovenia was, by December of last year, "monetaryly warned" that it is necessary to pay EUR 669,000. If that's a warning, that's fine. It seems to me more like a fine or punishment to a system that does not guarantee a trial within a reasonable time. It is true, however, that, apart from these two laws in this mandate, when laws were proposed by the Ministry of Justice, we have always heard that there is a reduction in judicial backlog. But the money warnings keep coming. I don't know if we're following the trend or if we haven't done anything. But the money alerts are coming. I am glad that this is a warning, because then it will not be necessary for Slovenian taxpayers to settle this. However, if it is money fines that the State of the Republic of Slovenia will have to provide from the budget, then I am concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you for sharing your concerns with us. Mr Ivan Yelen will give his position to the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Your Honors are here! Given that this item of the agenda is closely linked to the treatment of the previous one, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, since it is practical to regulate the identical issue of independent, impartial and effective detection and prosecution of offenders who are members of the police, the military police, the intelligence and security services, which we support in the DeSUS Group, we will therefore contribute to the adoption of this bill. The current Criminal Procedure Act provides that the police are responsible for detecting suspects and collecting information in the forecasting procedure, irrespective of the status of the suspect and the State Prosecutor's Office for prosecuting the perpetrators. Thus, in the case of a suspect who is a member of the police, for example, there are doubts about the impartial and objective treatment of a criminal offence. This is precisely the reason enough for the establishment of a special specialised department within the framework of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which will ensure impartial, independent investigation into the crimes of perpetrators with such status. In our parliamentary group, we support such an arrangement for dealing with the problem and, as we agreed with the previous proposal, we will also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure. Once again, it is necessary to provide for an independent investigation not only to establish specific jurisdiction to investigate or prosecute such offences, but rather to ensure the effective protection of its rights and freedoms from the point of view of the injured party, the victim and its members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Member Dimitrij Kovačič will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In order to regulate the matter that we have dealt with under the previous item of the agenda, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office also needs to be amended. However, the reasons and justifications for the adoption of this law are identical or identical to those of the State Prosecutor's Office Act. Therefore, I would not repeat these reasons and justifications, and on this basis I confirm or announce that the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will also support this law for the same reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you. Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary, who has left in the meantime. Therefore, the proposed amendments to this law are clearly the result of the proposed amendment to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. And as we have not found in the LDS House of Members the reasons for supporting that novelty or proposal of the novel, we cannot, of course, support the proposal of this novel, because they are directly related to each other. In doing so, however, I would like to point out one thing, namely, the detection and investigation of crimes is the work of the police and is separate from the prosecution itself, which is the work of the prosecutors. According to a new report, the police, which is a body within the Ministry of the Interior, are expected to operate within the Public Prosecutor's Office. And it is not clear, of course, where the border between the operation of the Head of the Department is based on police rules, because this department will lead, and the actions of the Chief of Prosecutor's Rules, because the police will only be directed and supervised. We know that major problems already arise in the direction of the police by the prosecution, that I should remind you dear colleagues and dear colleagues of the latest case of the suspect Pluto. And it also raises questions as to whether this introduces the so-called judicial police. There is no answer to that question. We do not claim in the LDS that this would be bad, but this should be precisely defined and professionally justified, but this is not the case. And interestingly, Minister Sturm said that with the previous law, and as a result also with this, increased public confidence in the work of the police will be ensured. The most recent case, according to many experts in the Republic of Slovenia, when police illegally monitored and secretly followed the Strojan family, the Attorney General himself said very quickly that the data available to the prosecution from the police and the individual prosecutions did not reveal any signs of a crime. So it is a very quick finding of the prosecution, a very quick acquisition of a very direct position, and in fact it is also a matter of whether it is also a possibility that in this way any matter that will be unloved - within the police - for the Ministry of the Interior or for the Government could thus be thrown under the rug by these new solutions, as we have already witnessed in the history of some such cases by the Special Prosecutor's Group. Therefore, after all I have said, it is clear that the LDS Club cannot support this bill as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you. Ambassador Miran Potrč will give his position to the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! All the pronouns, and so do I, have said that there are two related laws, that the reasons for preparation are the same and the solutions are the same or the same, adapted to the content of the law itself. And in the case of the Criminal Procedure Act, the applicant proposes to empower the specialised prosecutor and the special police within the Special Prosecutors' Department for Special Purposes to authorize them to conduct and direct the pre-trial procedure and to file an indictment in cases where the suspected criminal services of an official employed in the police, the military police, the defence-security service of the Ministry of Defence or of officials who are assigned to a mission abroad. It is therefore right to point out that, from a request concerning the question whether the conduct of police officers and the use of their powers is not a matter of human rights violations, the Government proposes to extend special treatment to all crimes, and this is a very wide range of persons, not only the police, who could misuse powers and violate human rights in the exercise of their powers, but also the military police, the defence and security services of the Ministry of Defence and even for officials deployed abroad. Why is that? The definitions do not explain whether the views of the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court make it really necessary to extend, firstly, the circle of persons and, secondly, all types of offences which will lead to specific treatment. Whether this will contribute to a truly greater awareness and belief of citizens and citizens that this will increase objectivity, or whether someone may think that this will provide a special treatment that may also be privileged. Let me be excused for saying this, but there is such a possibility. Because of the fundamental problem, it is how the procedures are handled first in the police themselves when complaints are made against police officers by citizens and citizens. In amending the Police Act, we made some progress in this direction a few years ago and extended the circle of people, the professional public and the civilians involved, but not only the police, which according to police estimates represents some progress. The question is whether it would not be good to think about further progress in this area even when it comes to dealing with human rights violations when handling and exercising police powers, it is true that we would include in the assessment, apart from police officers, an independent profession which we have in Slovenia, thank God, also in this area in order to ensure greater independence. Because talking about it being just because someone was a police officer yesterday, and now they're not in the police, I'd say in the criminal service, but in a specialized criminal service, which is part of a special unit of the state's Attorney's Office, that this will ensure objectivity overnight, I'm not sure. In particular, because we know that some police conduct is only assessed in different ways. You know, we've had discussions about how effective the police were. My colleague Darja mentioned the Plut case, it was swept under the carpet, I'd put it straight. And we didn't want to, I triggered it, no one to blame it for knowingly doing it, but to warn you whether it was trouble or not. From the beginning, the D.A. admitted that the problems were, and then, to say the least, they were agreed, and suddenly they were gone. Another example is the use of stunners. Whether we have the right direction or not, clearly enough, we do not have it, but it is promised. I would, I wouldn't, and I wouldn't. Third case, how should we trust the prosecution, the police, if there is an assessment of the covert tracking and handling in the case of Postojna as it is. Many issues that would require consideration are therefore not the best solution to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u33	My friend Run, thank you very much. The position of the Nova Slovenija Group will be given by Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u34	Have a nice hello again. Indeed, the proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act are linked to earlier amendments to the Law on Supplements to the State Prosecutor's Office Act. The amendments shall confer upon the military police the responsibility to detect and prosecute offences committed by officials employed in the police, the military police, the intelligence and security services or who are on a mission abroad. The powers of the police shall be transferred to a special department within a group of prosecutors who shall be empowered to take the lead. The investigation will be carried out by officers in the unit within the group, directing the investigation and overseeing the state's prosecutors in this section. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that this change is easy to understand. The point of this change is not to have an insider investigating an insider. Therefore, this competence is transferred outside the body and it will certainly be progress towards objectivity and impartiality in conducting the investigation when the worst acts are suspected, i.e. the suspicion of criminal service. However, I do not understand the nervousness or criticism of those who, on the one hand, criticize the work of the police and, on the other hand, reject any possibility of a new solution aimed at improving the work and establishing greater responsibilities for police officers. We have also recently held many discussions and discussions on this subject on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. However, it seems ineffective to me that the powers conferred on a particular body to determine whether someone acted properly or not would be transferred to another person. And in a particular case, which has already been mentioned today, this has been done more than evidently. Therefore, in the most sensitive cases, we must be particularly aware of the powers vested in the individual authorities and also of the power-sharing frameworks in force in our country. In New Slovenia, we believe that the establishment of a special group of state prosecutors investigating crimes within the repressive authorities is only the beginning of the necessary changes in the criminal procedure, but certainly efforts must be made to reduce the risk of police violence. And all the participating authorities in the process must consider with the utmost seriousness possible indications that someone has been subjected to violence in the forecasting process or otherwise. There will certainly be a need to reshape some institutions in the forecasting process and, as has been shown, to ensure greater control over the work of the police or of the repressive authorities so as not to exceed the powers. We will also support these changes in the law in Novi Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Something for an introduction, a little for a joke and a little bit for real, around the different opinions of legal experts. You've probably heard of a saying about lawyers interpreting Pythagoras' saying: the sum of squares above the cathetes is equal to a square above the hypotenuse, unless otherwise specified by law. Another thing I'd like to say. We are talking about this specific law, four articles, when we consider, or when we consider, both the preceding and the present agenda items. I have found that the Legislative and Legal Service has only commented on Article 1 which defines what the police are or what is being interpreted under the terms of the police. Article 2, which is substantively, the other two are transitional, and the Legislative and Legal Service had no opinion. With regard to monetary warnings or fines, or whatever we call it, I think it is a shame to speak under this law, and indeed to commend the Ministry for preparing amendments and additions to the law that will eliminate these judicial backlogs, which have also been brought before the European Court of Justice and for which we are paying these monetary warnings or fines. I think it's also a case in this particular case, I think the minister said, from 1995, and it's a case, I think, from 2000, or I don't know exactly what year. So it's a case of long, long beard, five, ten, fifteen or even more years. In particular, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure follows the same objectives as the amendment to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, as discussed in the previous item on the agenda. The applicable law on criminal proceedings for all offences provides that the police are responsible for the detection of suspects and the collection of information in the pre-trial procedure and for the prosecution of perpetrators by the State Prosecutor's Office. It is logical that such an arrangement allows for doubts about the impartiality and proper treatment of possible irregularities or even of acts of criminality committed or caused by officials of a specific repressive authority, either by the police or by another repressive body. The only exception in this regard is in the current Criminal Procedure in the Slovenian Army, where certain criminal powers are vested in the Slovenian Military Police. The new Criminal Procedure Act lays down the competences of the specialised section of the Public Prosecutors' Group for the prosecution of organised crime. This will have the power to act in the pre-trial procedure in relation to the offences of officials employed in law enforcement agencies. This ensures, in our belief, the independence of the forecasting procedure in the event of grounds for suspicion that a particular offence has been committed by an official employed in a law enforcement body or in a repressive body. The guarantee for this is the police who will operate within the specialised department. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that the proposed new regime of criminal procedure will help to effectively protect the rights or increase the legal confidence of citizens in the rule of law. The proposed novel will be supported by the members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you. My colleague Bajec and I have also concluded with presentations on the views of the groups of Members. However, we are moving on to a second reading of the bill's proposal, which is that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, and that is why there is no discussion of the articles. That is why I am also concluding the debate, and with this second reading of the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the timing of the meeting, we will take a decision on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. And with that, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE REAL BENEFITS OF THE COUNTRY, THE COUNTRY AND THE COMMUNITY. We have three hours and 35 minutes of debate scheduled for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! The Real Property Act of the State, the Provinces and the Municipalities is a law governing one of the important functions of the State and the local communities, namely the management of property. Certainly it is such an important function that it deserves legal treatment and not partial regulation or inadequate regulation of the law on public finances as is the case today. The value of real property owned by the state and local communities is estimated at over 2000 billion Slovenian tolars - I apologize for having prepared data in tolars, so - but this data is not yet complete by our estimates. In fact, one of the main shortcomings of the current situation is the lack of regulated records in the area of real property. The government has taken on an extremely bad situation in this area. Although the previous Government has started activities to register real property, at least the one owned by the State, but it has remained so, so at the start of the activity. The project was launched and the actual recording did not take place. In the good two years we have now established a temporary register of properties which will be the basis for the entry into the new register provided for in this Act, the Real Estate Act, the Lands and the Communities. The basic principle of the law is the principle of economy. Therefore, real property needs to be treated economically, which means, above all, that it is necessary to sell or rent the property that is economically unnecessary, which is therefore not needed by the State or the local community. This also means that it is necessary to establish an internal real estate market and the law provides a clear legal basis for the internal real estate market, which, I must say, is taking place today in practice. This is not illegal; under the new law, the government regulation will further standardise this area. In practice, however, this internal market is already taking place today. The internal market simply means, if one institution, one authority of the state administration needs a certain type of property for its own purposes, for its own purposes, and another authority has such a property available and it is not commercially necessary for it to, of course, transfer within a public administration or wider, within a circle of state authorities, or even wider, within the public sector. This is certainly more economical than selling something on the one hand and on the other hand buying similar functionalities. Last year alone, more than 5 million transfers of real estate management rights between national authorities were carried out in this way. The law also pays particular attention to the planned treatment of property. As so far as the annual plan for the acquisition and disposal of real property is concerned, this planning is more flexible. You know that today, the National Assembly, through a decree on the sale of state property, decides on the sale of all real estate, even if the land or building is of small value and that the procedures in practice are long and sometimes it is not possible to react quickly to real needs, cannot make any moves that are logical, rational, economical, but must wait a few months for the procedure to take place in the National Assembly. There is no need for this, and therefore the new law provides a threshold for the value of the individual property under which the sale is planned by the Government itself, of course when it comes to real estate in the administration of the public administrations from that threshold up from that threshold, and from that threshold plans to sell the property to the National Assembly or the Government to propose to the National Assembly and the National Assembly must confirm this plan. There was some debate on this threshold on the parent’s working body. Finally, we have reached a compromise between the basic government proposal and the amendment of the Social Democrats. We're in the middle of 300,000 euros for each property. Transparency and cost-effectiveness are also extremely important in the sale process itself, the principle of the law is that real property is sold at a public auction or through public bidding, which practically means a public invitation to tender inviting potential tenderers to make their bids; and the law allows further negotiations after the conclusion of this procedure, so that we can negotiate with the successful tenderer and reach an even higher price than we did in this process. A direct contract without auction or public collection is provided for only in exceptional cases where it is a real property of small value when it comes to, say, acquisition of co-ownership or co-ownership rights and so on. So, these direct contracts are envisaged in exceptional cases where there can be no abuse. A novelty brought by law is also the possibility of free transfer of real property from one to another in public law. This will most often be taken into account as the transfer of assets from country to municipality, in a broader context than is envisaged by legislation on the promotion of coherent regional development. After that law, such a transfer is intended as an incentive or a development incentive, such as the promotion of regional development, and this law is intended for a second broader purpose. It is simply that a property that is physically located in the territory of a particular municipality is owned by the State and has its own purpose, gets its content, gets its economic use. If land owned by a municipality is located in the territory of a municipality, state-owned dwellings which are not in use, which are, for example, commercially unnecessary for a country or may not be able to provide economic management with them, it can be arranged for free of charge or for transfer under a market price, from the state to the local community, so that this property receives its true content. In such a case, of course, a contract is concluded, this transfer in the public interest, in the public interest, and therefore the essential component of the contract has also determined what this public interest is. In the event that this essential component is breached, the contract may also be broken down. In particular, I stress that this law extends the validity of real estate sales procedures to public institutions, public agencies, public funds and public companies, except in the case of special, sectoral legislation, such as certain funds. Therefore, this broader public sector is not subject to these rules today, so I say that the new law will bring more transparency and more cost-effectiveness in the management of assets, including in this wider public sector. So not only in the sector of the country and the municipality, but also in the wider public sector. It is also envisaged to gradually establish or expand the real estate register, including in this wider public sector. So far, we have dealt mainly with property owned by the state and managed by the state authorities, and the law also provides for the creation of records for the general public sector, i.e. for property owned by public institutions, public agencies, etc. So much for the intro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u39	Minister, thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. The chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, will present the report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u40	Thank you. Nice greeting to the Minister and, of course, to you again! At its 28th regular meeting on 17.1., the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on the real estate of the State, the provinces, the municipalities as the working body. Representatives from the Ministry of Public Administration, the Law and Legal Service, as well as representatives of the Slovenian Institute for Audit and the Municipality of Velenje, attended the meeting of the committee. The introductory explanation for the bill was given by the Minister of Public Administration. He stressed that the drafter wanted to systematically and uniformly regulate the real estate of the State and the self-governance of local communities. The legislative and legal service has examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The general comment referred to the definition of the concept of legal persons to whom the law actually applies and, in most of the comments, amendments were also tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which, as it is said, followed the position of the Legislative and Legal Service in their work. In addition to coalition parliamentary groups, they tabled their amendments to the draft law also to the 10th Article of the SDS and SLS Group, to the 11th and 16th Articles of the Social Democrats Group and to the 22nd, 23rd and 36th Articles of the Member of the Council. In the debate, the members and members of the committee devoted the most time and attention to Article 10 of the bill and the amendment to this article. The amendment stipulated that the Ministry of the Environment should carry out the ministry responsible for the construction of walled land. In this way, a functional, uniform country-owned land management policy would be established. The debaters were aware of the specific issues mentioned above, but due to the systemic inadequacy of the amendments, the majority of the members of the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service, also had concerns about the bill's proponent, as the amendment was legally incomplete and could raise a number of issues related to other already existing rules. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 11, 20, 21, 36 and 37 of the proposal of the SDS, New Slovenia, SLS and DeSUS. As it is said, he did not accept the amendment to Article 10 and the amendment to Article 16. At the Committee's meeting, the amendments of the Social Democrats' Group were withdrawn to the 11th Article and the Parliamentary of Davorin Terčona by Articles 22, 23 and 36, in particular because, at the stage of the debate, we had recast the Committee's joint amendments, which were eventually also adopted and included in the draft law itself. We have thus prepared a supplementary report within the Committee, which you have before you today, and we have adopted all the articles of the law together and are proposing them to be adopted by this assembly as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In the meantime, young visitors joined us on the balcony. Good afternoon. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr DeSUS will be represented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go. Comrade Rezman, if you'll excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Well, let me start by saying that the DeSUS Group will support the law, because the law is better than what we had so far, because it has good solutions because it allows or predicts records, more cost-effective behaviour etc. But I will be more limited in my five-minute performance to what we are not most pleased with, which we have also pointed out on the working body and which, at least according to our judgment, was not the right answers. Interestingly, the report from the parent’s working body is also very costly and only talks about Article 10, which has been really talked about. And most importantly, we rejected that amendment because it would mean recentralisation of property and property in one ministry; and it is good that we rejected it. There was also much talk and controversy about Articles 4, 11, and 16, which is not mentioned in the record or in the report itself. This is why I am going to do these things, and I am going to continue to apologize to the Minister for asking me on a number of occasions on my mother's work body not to open these things, but I regret that, until we get the right answers, I can't get past this problem. Article 4 states that we must deal with assets economically, including local communities. And I read what the proposer writes in this regard in his response to the State Council's views, he says, points out that all entities bound by the law, i.e. the local community, are obliged to respect the general principles, among which the principle of economy is particularly important. Which, of course, I would agree with if this country did not prevent local communities from being economical. I therefore cited the case of administrative units, buildings in which administrative units function, namely state institutions owned by municipalities. And these owners, the congregations, from 1995 to this day do not have the right to use their property. According to the law adopted at the time, they were obliged to make this property available to the state free of charge, but this law was replaced in 2002 by a new law, which provided that we were obliged to give it free of charge. Thus, at least since 2002, we should conclude leases, not such as to give the congregations free of charge to the State, but to obtain an appropriate non-profit, for example, rent. I cannot agree with this at all, and I expect that, because of these statements, there is also legislation that the Minister will soon invite me to an interview to see if there is anything wrong with me. So far, he has not convinced me of this because it would be bad for us to call those who are greater experts in this area than we mayors, namely, lawyers who would try to settle this matter on our behalf. Therefore, we do not have the option to use our own assets. In particular, my congregation had to buy another building in which it settled its own servants. The next problem point is the point that the owner of such a building is one municipality and the administrative unit works, I think, in all cases, for several municipalities. Hence, one congregation must also set up funds for other congregations. At least this should be admitted by the Ministry that it is not properly carried out. And of course, the ministry should admit that in the same buildings we also have other state authorities, which pay rents, such as the military or, for example, the police, as well as Durs and VURS, and all other state authorities do not have everything for free. The problem I want to talk about is also the question of Article 11 which is logically contradictory, paragraphs 1 and 6 being contradictory. This was also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, and I warned myself about it, but there was no real willingness to accept it. Today, there is still an opportunity for the Minister to remove this logical discrepancy with the amendment that he will bring into line. In fact, it is not possible to provide for the Government to adopt a real estate plan by means of a definitive act in point 1 and 6 states that it will inform the National Assembly, which only takes note of this and at the same time speaks of it in the last sentence, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u43	My friend Rezman [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u44	that the budget must also be changed. [[...]] We will continue this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u45	Ambassador Maria Possonec will give the position of the delegation of the National Minority Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister and to all present! The real property owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the self-governing local communities is extremely extensive, both by the number of real estates and movables and by value, and therefore it is necessary to deal with this property with a specific law and a specific set of sub-legislative rules. The draft law clearly defines the meaning of the terms 'user' and 'user', because the current legislation does not know the term 'user', which has proved to be a defect. According to the provisions of the draft law, in individual legal transactions, certain values will be definitively decided by the heads of managers themselves and only in those legal transactions that will exceed a certain value by the regulation. For such a large amount of assets as nationals, good organisation, recording and, consequently, traceability of data on the state of real property is essential. The draft law therefore establishes the necessary legal framework for the maintenance of the common register of immovable property of the State and leaves the regulations to a more detailed regulation of the content and the procedures for its management. The internal real estate market makes it possible to rationalise and improve the efficiency of real estate management by allowing easy identification of the needs of its participants after real estate. The possibility of inspecting the internal market for self-government local communities and non-governmental budgetary users is introduced, but they cannot have the status of a participant in the internal market. I think marriage is better than before, so I'm going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you. Member Rudolf Petan will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! The area of property of the State and the municipalities governs several laws in different fields, depending on the nature of the property. The value of the assets covered by this law exceeds EUR 10 billion. For this reason, it is also necessary to regulate the handling of this property by means of a specific law and a specific set of sub-legislative rules. In practice, too, due to the lack of legislation, which covers an extremely wide area, the problems of both administrative complexity, economy and transparency of management, real estate availability and the lack of adaptability of operators to changing market conditions have also been demonstrated. In view of the extremely high value of assets, including strategic facilities, infrastructure, it is necessary to establish an up-to-date inventory of these assets in the sense of a good master, to ensure that the situation on the market can be adjusted more quickly, to define clearly the circle of entities to which it applies, and to regulate systematically and uniformly the area of management of this property, also to clearly distinguish the application of the law as a general rule and the application of the rules in special areas. The desire of lawmakers, of course us, is to define as clearly as possible the concept of user and operator, which is very important in terms of the unequivocal determination of these rights of the individual consumer or of the operator and the obligations and responsibilities in relation to the handling of this property. The current legislation does not know the concept of user, which has proved to be a major flaw. In practice, there are also cases where an individual public authority or other person has a specific asset solely in use, but is not obliged or entitled to manage it, that is to say, to maintain or even rent it, to burden real rights and so on. For this reason, the proposed solution is meaningful and necessary, as it solves a number of uncertainties and also the problem that arises. According to the new proposal, certain legal transactions will be decided by the managers themselves by a regulation, and only in those transactions where the amount exceeds a certain amount at the moment, I think, 300 000 euros. After the current law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finally decides on all transactions relating to property. The proposal for a new law also provides for an analogy, i.e. that all proposed solutions to state property are also used for the property of local communities. Public undertakings which, under the provisions of the proposal of the law, are obliged to apply the content relating to the principles and procedures are properly covered, and the legal entities listed under the applicable regulation are obliged to comply with the procedural rules only for that property owned by the Republic of Slovenia, not for property owned by them. The proposed solution also brings about a simplification of the rules of conduct in this area and in these entities. The proposal also extends the possibility of devolving real property into free use, i.e. without transferring ownership rights, provided that the latter is allocated to self-government local communities, educational institutions and so on. It is worth mentioning that for movable property, the bill provides for identical procedures as for real estate. In the SDS, we believe that for such a large amount of assets as the national and, of course, local communities, which exceed €10 billion, good organisation, recording and the consequent traceability of real property data is crucial. This should also take into account the internal real estate market, which allows for the rationalisation and efficiency of real estate management, as it enables easy identification of the needs of its participants after real estate. News of the bill: the novelty is an opportunity to look into the internal market for self-government local communities and non-governmental budgetary users who cannot have the status of a participant in the internal market. We will support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you. My colleague, Milan Petek, will present the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u50	Nice greetings to colleagues, colleagues, ministers, vice president! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the purposes and objectives of the bill, since the property owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the local communities is so extensive that the treatment of property has to be regulated by a specific law. In doing so, we point out that the treatment of property and state is also regulated by special rules and therefore we hope that certain provisions, particularly those relating to the procedures for the sale or replacement of immovable property, will not create any non-conformity or at least confusion, as in some cases they will not know how to apply both or more of the rules governing auctions, the collection of tenders, the conclusion of direct contracts. In addition, we believe that many uncoordinated terminology will be disruptive. The applicant submits that the current regime is inadequate due to the administrative complexity and duration of individual procedures, arguing that the proposal constitutes only a necessary framework for dealing with the area, while the individual operational solutions will be further regulated by the regulation. They would point out that this area has been regulated in general by two laws so far, namely the Law on Local Self-Government and Public Finance, and that regulation in those laws did not constitute the main cause of administrative complexity. This was also the result of detailed regulatory regulation at the level of the Regulation and we can only hope that the applicant will be happier in more detailed regulation of procedures. It is true, however, that the transparency of the treatment of assets to be provided by the proposal for a law is closely linked to the precise administrative arrangements, namely transparency and complexity. They are not necessarily contradictory, but without the detailed administration of transparency, we agree that procedures need to be regulated in more detail by a sub-legislative act or regulation, as this will allow operators to adapt to constantly changing market conditions, ensuring efficiency and efficiency of conduct. Important solutions also include provisions allowing, in particular, the free transfer of unnecessary property or land owned by the State to the municipality, provided that it provides a more cost-effective use for public benefit. So far, it has been possible to observe a number of long-lasting and complicated transport procedures, especially military ones, since the former SFRJ, and similar unnecessary public-owned facilities to the municipalities that have managed the appropriate facilities to their own extent in these facilities. Several ministers said they were waiting for a new real estate management law that would allow the assets to be transferred or sold at a very favourable price to local communities. This is mainly a matter of facilities which the public authorities do not need to carry out their tasks. In the Liberal Democracy, in the House of Representatives, we finally welcome the solution that participants in the internal market of immovable property in addition to the state of self-government are also local communities; and let us just end by commending Minister Virant, who is one of the few ministers who has also taken into account the opposition's opinion and incorporated this into the amendment or amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr Dušan Kumer will give his position to the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! We will support the proposed bill in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. In the Social Democrats Group, we have always advocated that the fundamental principle of managing the country's real property is, above all, the principle of economy and, on the other hand, the effective prevention of nepotism, clientism and corruption, which are the most often unpleasant followers of this principle. The treatment of the existing decisions on the sale of State property in the National Assembly has, for the most part, raised doubts about this principle. In view of the situation in Slovenia, where we are witnessing that there is still a good half of the property in the hands of the country, read every single executive office, and nothing seems to be overly trying to change this situation or to see and really withdraw from the economy, there is still a good basis for the increase of the previously mentioned rarity. Members of the Social Democrats therefore welcome the proposaler's efforts, in particular the Ministry of Public Administration, to finally try to regulate these matters by law. But, of course, the law itself is not enough. More important is its implementation and consistent monitoring of sanctions for violations and acts. It is precisely for this reason that it would be appropriate for the Government, at the same time, to draw up a concrete integrity plan in which it would identify and identify critical points and areas where abuses can occur, as it prescribes and imposes the applicable anti-corruption law. Only these measures would be a guarantee that eliminates and prevents the possibility and occurrence of corruption both in the individual body and in individuals who will implement the law on the sale of state property, because, as has been pointed out several times today, the current situation, for example, of Slovenia's real estate, which is quite rich in the management of direct budgetary users. 12,916 plots total over 30 million square meters, 2,372 buildings total over 642 thousand square meters are indeed large assets. Let's not talk about the capital assets of the country being loaded into the economy. On the other hand, it is also important to stress, as I said at the outset, that the law brings some positive innovations which, in the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members, will undoubtedly have an impact on greater transparency, economy, economic use, and business both at national and local level. Here we focus on additional procedures for free removal, free use, and it is very important to have a common record of real estate, in particular the introduction of the internal market. It is also a good novelty, which adds up to the user's operator for obligations that have not been incurred so far and therefore in several cases the assets have been lost on their value. We would suggest, however, that the proposer or the Government direct energy towards the implementation of another standard in force in the European Union countries in order to reflect on the authority dealing with this issue in order to ensure the specificity of the whole area. This is as suggested by the State Council in its explanation, the establishment of a special real estate company as an economic society in full state ownership. For we believe that such a society would be more efficient and cost-effective in caring for this property and that the internal market for the property of the State would be better organised and better functioning than if it were one ministry in addition to all the other work it does. In this case, of course, it is the Ministry of Public Administration, which is already so burdened. So, in the Social Democrats Group, we will not oppose the law, we will support it, but we hope that the proposaler will take into account any further comments we have made today.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you. Ambassador Mojca Kucler Dolinar will give the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you. Have a nice hello again! The proposal for a law on State real property is a system law aimed at establishing a general framework, establishing principles and basic grounds for dealing with the real property of the State and the self-government local communities. These starting points will then be further divided by sub-laws. We are in the New Slovenia Group of Members and we are working to ensure greater responsibility in the sale of state property. We estimate that the proposal for a law on the real estate of the State, the provinces and the municipalities realizes this trend. The bill also supports the professional public and assesses that this is a more modern and systematic and systematicly more appropriate approach. That is why we also expect the consensus in the National Assembly and the positive support of the professional public not only to be adopted but also to be well implemented in practice. The New Slovenia Group's support for the proposal for a law is based on a fundamental objective, namely to ensure public, transparency and cost-effectiveness in the management of property. The additional reason is that procedures have been simplified where possible and that this will make it possible to manage assets more quickly and in particular more efficiently. This is where constructive cooperation has already been demonstrated in the process of enacting the law, as the value limit to which the Government can decide on the sale of real estate itself has been set at EUR 300,000 by a joint decision. In the interest of greater transparency, the bill also regulates the register of property owned by the State, municipalities and other persons of public law. We believe that the Ministry of Public Administration, which has already established the property record in the administration of state authorities, will soon be able to extend it to the wider public sector, particularly in the face of the problems we have faced in this area in the past. The Central Real Estate Register, which has already been established, connects and retrieves data from the databases of the Land Cadastre and the Cadastre of Buildings, and that these are serious consequences that the law could have for illustration, to state the extensive content governed by the proposal of the Law, and to indicate that there are more than 24,000 plots and more than 6,000 buildings in this register on 30.6. last year in the management of direct budgetary users. In terms of economy in the New Slovenia Group, we also expect positive effects from the introduction of the internal real estate market, but we also expect to reconsider today's amendment, especially the creation of an option, whether it would make sense to extend it to others. We support the purposes of selling assets that are not needed by the State in order to transfer them to others who can treat them effectively and use them. However, here we call on the competent institutions, as well as individuals who will have the resources to adhere to the strictly established starting points of the law on public and transparency in conduct. There must be no tolerance for the possible use of internal information, according to the New Slovenia Group. And there must also be a strict sanction. It is not necessary to explain very widely that the information that there is an interest, for example, in a given land, that the land is present for the country can consequently increase the price disproportionately. However, with the warnings we have been denied, we believe that the law has a good starting point, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The real property of the state is in local communities and, according to the material provided to us, exceeds EUR 8 billion. In fact, it is interesting that we do not have a system law in Slovenia that regulates this area in its entirety until the proposal for a law on the real property of the country, the landscape and the municipalities we are dealing with today. From this point of view, we must express our satisfaction that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a law that will regulate in a uniform way the area of real property management of the State and local communities. The unregulated and imprudent situation with regard to the real property of the State and the local communities must have had a long-term negative impact. In part, this is addressed by the current regulation on acquisition, disposal, management of real property of the State and municipalities, which has also introduced an internal real estate market. The internal real estate market has had many positive effects. However, the problem with the regulation is that, due to the inconsistent transmission of data to the competent authorities, the real estate records are no longer complete or are not too complete. However, for assets of such high value, an up-to-date database on the state of the key importance is, of course, an up-to-date database. In addition to a comprehensive approach, the law provides conditions for ensuring transparent management of state assets. Transparency is certainly necessary, as it also ensures the most rational and legitimate management and management of real property. Without adequate transparency, the risk of inappropriate actions is significantly higher. The law is also geared towards making it easier for market operators to adapt to market conditions and to address unnecessary administrative matters. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we expect that the law will achieve its objectives and enable the creation of an up-to-date inventory of real property and transparent management of this property. In particular, we welcome the extension or supplementation of the option in the area of free disposal and the provision of real property for free use, of course under legal provisions and conditions. These options are likely to enable more rapid resolution of some spatial problems, particularly in the relationship between the country and local communities. However, this law may also be the basis for encouraging the activities of non-governmental organisations which will be able to obtain a state facility free of charge, which has no other meaning for the country and has been failing for more than 15 years. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you. And colleague Boštjan Zagorac will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Madam President. More or less, we have heard of the content and well - intentionedness of the law from my predecessors. As a Member, I have no choice but to believe that the Government is doing well, and in such a sense or tone and content I will also discuss. However, I cannot help but see that there has been a lot of talk about how the Government is trying to make the property of the country, the landscapes and the municipalities transparent, while on the committee - and this has to be stressed - the biggest talk was about the amendment to Article 10 of the law tabled by government parties, namely, the largest government party and the Slovenian People's Party. This amendment states in its second paragraph: "The Ministry responsible for housing matters shall be transferred to the Ministry of Housing, the property of the State with which the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended for the construction of buildings in spatial acts." You do not think, however, that this may no longer be a matter of such transparent action as to the transfer of certain powers and the transfer of certain, I will say, the ratings that the competent ministry would then have over such land. So just talking about transparency can also be two-faced - you're proposing something on the committee, and today you're saying, thank God it fell. Then tell me the meaning of such an amendment. I must also join one of the speakers who said that it was not only this article that was so controversial that some other articles were still at issue or the lack of answers to certain other articles, particularly the relationship between the State and the local community. Dan was also a very good example of how the local community should be masters - masters, which is the emphasis of this law - as a good master if a state institution resides in a building owned by a local community, such as an administrative unit, for which, of course, the state has no great purpose to pay rent for the use of this building. And such an example of transparency and good cooperation is, for example, the Administrative Unit in the Municipality of Pesnica. At that time, I made an amendment myself to allow the state to move this administrative unit to a state facility at a nearby location, but not members of the government coalition or the ministry of such an amendment would not want to hear anything. Today, I am hearing about good cooperation, the transfer of property from the congregations to the country, and I do not know what else. But that was less than a year ago, and then there was no hearing for such good cooperation. Therefore, somehow, I cannot get the duplicity of the Government and the government Members talking about transparency out of hand, and they do not allow such amendments to be supported. It is not a large financial asset, because this building was owned by the State and should only be slightly renovated and proposed on the Committee such amendments, which, thank God, then become or reject them. Therefore, transparency is not too much to talk about, let us all adopt this law together as proposed, and do not try to change it and talk about how transparent you are and if we are already talking about transparency of state property, I must say that we miss one part of this law in the Slovenian National Party. Why none of us Members in this National Assembly know exactly how much this state property is, why there is no proposal for this law if we go to transparency, a list of state assets. Maybe it would make sense, maybe it would be easier for us to know exactly what we're talking about. In the Slovenian National Party we will be the law, thank God that we have already rejected this amendment on the Committee, we will not oppose this law, as I said in the introductions, I believe in the well-intention of the Government, but I cannot by any means shake the sense of the duality of government Members when they spoke here today about transparency, but they have proposed such non-transparent amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. Members and Members of Parliament have a letter dated 31.1. this year on which the amendment is before you. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS. These are the proponents. I'm opening a possible debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got one of the advertised discussers. Comrade Janko Weber, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you. I think that this amendment of the three parliamentary groups is unacceptable for several reasons. First of all, if we are talking about the property of the country, the provinces and the municipalities, then it means that the municipalities here, in particular, are once again pulling that short and transferring some land from the farm to the housing fund. On the other hand, I would like to point out very clearly that the unwalled buildings provide municipal equipment and regulate their status as a municipality, i.e. they invest in these lands, and the agricultural land fund would transfer them to the housing fund free of charge under this law. In short, a whole bunch of questions. In addition, I would point out that, by the definition or meaning of the terms referred to in Article 3, we speak of public law persons as a state, a self-government local community, a public institution, a public economic institution, a public agency, a public fund and a public undertaking. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is neither an institution nor a public fund and cannot therefore be placed in the provisions of this Act. On the other hand, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Article 57 of the Law on Public Funds makes it very clear that the buildings of the municipalities in which they are located become unwalled. This applies to those lands which were adopted on the basis of spatial acts which are justified in the constituents of the municipal social plan for the period 1986-1990 and with spatial components of the municipal long-term social plan for the period 1986-2000 and were intended for the construction of buildings up to 10.3.1993 as social property. In addition, this article also refers to the fact that the municipalities also become the property of the land that the municipality, through the adoption of a new spatial implementing act, in line with the mandatory republican starting points, has been assigned to the construction of the buildings. So also with the new spatial acts, defined land, i.e. unpaved building land, becomes the property of the municipalities. So it is impossible to do what is said in this amendment. In addition, I would like to point out the fact that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia itself has been transferring all land and forests to the property of municipalities since the denationalisation was completed. This is also enshrined in the Agricultural Land Fund Act. This is also why it is not possible to transfer these land to the housing fund because the solutions in the Agricultural Land Fund Act are clear and must also be respected. I think it is right that the applicants actually withdraw this amendment because it is not actually possible to accept it because of the legal obstacles. I think that we could also conclude this debate, because the legal basis for adopting this solution, as set out in this amendment, is in fact not.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? We're opening a new circle. Here you go. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'd say, first of all, I'd say it looks like we're just going to be talking to some mayors, no one else, even though it's 2,000 billion, as mentioned. We're probably talking because we know what this is all about. And I agree that such an amendment must be rejected. For a very simple reason. The reason is that, according to my judgment, the congregations are again being repressed here. And if there is anything left that others will not know what to do, then let it burden the congregation. Our proposal was different. The municipalities are those preparing development projects that prepare spatial implementation acts and the municipalities to submit their projects to the central register. And then it will be determined how much of this property the state does not know what to do with and how many projects the congregations have prepared and would help them to realize. But we can see that the country has no intention of doing so. As with administrative units, the country is an economic failure for the municipalities. We are formally landowners, but not economically. We have none of this except the losses and costs we invest in these buildings. That's how he wants to push us to the edge again. We equip land with municipal equipment, equip it with spatial acts, then someone will transfer it free of charge to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which will build non-profit apartments on this land to those to whom the municipality will then have to pay these apartments in the form of subsidies. These are so wrapped up, and I think, in part, the things that are so deliberately prepared that they take responsibility for the congregations and push them to the brink. For this reason, of course, I cannot support such an amendment, and I also refused to sign it when it came to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you. Given the fact that I see more Members who want to debate, we will open a new third round. Here you go. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support this amendment. However, I would like to tell the opponents that they would probably have supported him too if their assumption were not based on wrong views. The State or anyone within the administrative units does not leave the municipalities, nor does it relieve them economically, nor does it burden them needlessly. Let me be allowed because I am speaking to explain why this assumption is wrong. Because I know how such a solution came about. At the time I was in local government, I was the President of the Executive Council, and we are together, executives and mayors, when we were another amphibian, a dualism of power, because we knew that at the end of 1994 and at the beginning of 1995 there would be a reorganisation of local self-government or a reorganisation of the state administration, that those large municipalities that were parasites would be divided and that the tasks performed so far by the municipalities would then be carried out by administrative units, that is to say, in the same premises, in the same building or in the part of this building. And there was a choice, the state was also thinking about buying it back then, it was thinking about buying it, or agreeing to rent whatever it was then, but the executives and the mayors were thinking differently back then. We said, we are interested that people have access to these services, the tasks to be performed by administrative units, so far by the congregations, where they have been received. For she was afraid that if, for example, the congregations set up a great rent, that the state might say simply, listen; but you are too expensive, but we go into those places that are cheaper, and they may go elsewhere. Perhaps some place would even lose these services because there were also speeches, I don't know if this would even concentrate on administrative areas. And we have been thinking in the sense that people still have access to these services, as they were. Now, obviously, you are only thinking materialistically about how much you can survive, which is understandable today. I admit that, too. But don't say it's a matter of economic exorcism. This was then in terms of the simplest possible approach of citizens to these services offered by administrative units, as it was then that this would not change so that certain locations of this service would not be lost. This was the context, not the exorcism of the congregations. As I have already said, I agree that today is more materialistic thinking. I don't blame anyone for not being right. But the basis of how this came about is what I told you. Nothing else. At that time, such thinking was correct and today, many mayors, where there is no administrative unit, are fighting for a local office or something like that so that certain functions can be managed there. And it probably doesn't come to his mind to say yes, we'd like to, and we'll give you the rent and come. No, for free we give you, just come and we will have a local office, and we will be able to perform certain functions there so that our citizens will not have to go to the neighbouring larger municipality where the administrative unit is established. That's right. That's the main cause. And that's why assumptions are wrong for such an amendment, which is why I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u66	I'll try to be at least as smart as my colleague Rezman, because he said that it seems that only fellow mayors understand this amendment or that only the mayors understand it. I would agree with the discussion by my colleague Vebra, who spoke about the manner in which the unwalled buildings in the spatial acts were then identified. And on the day 10.3.1993 all those lands that were so defined and were formerly social property, general human property, in management I don't know who all, they became the property of local communities. All other assets that have been recovered have become the property of those legal entities which have been entered as holder of the right of use on the C sheet. All other assets, which are social property or general human property and which have been entered as such, have been acquired in an unpaid manner and have become the property of the fund. And that should be arranged. However, I do not understand my colleague Rezman as mayor, when he says that, I agree, the municipalities are obliged or are one of their original competences to prepare land for housing, but it would be foolish for the mayor to go municipally to equip some land, and then he will find that he is not the owner of those lands and that, on the basis of this amendment, the fund will bring these lands to the Republic Fund. I don't know how I'd justify my actions on the community council. I will personally support this amendment because many of the land that are social property is still included in the land book or general human property and on the management of the fund, but with spatial acts adopted by individual local communities after 10.3.1993, they are defined as building plots and why they should not fund. And it is entirely necessary to amend, they say, that the regulation can make participants in the real estate market of the country, including other state authorities, self-government local communities. Nowhere is it written, I will say, for example, that one of you in the municipality of Postojna is one piece that has 127 square meters, within a walled area, and is now owned by the fund, and if the congregation has decided there to regulate the land for the purposes of housing, it should bring this to the congregation free of charge. That is why I myself will support the amendment to this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you. We're opening a new circle. I'm asking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'll try to explain to Mr. Bajc how this is understood. The mayor, who has municipal land to which some other land is bordered, will not equip them with the will not to enrich other lands, works poorly. Since he will not then have his own land equipped, nor his neighbours, he will not charge the municipal contribution, he must not charge compensation for the use of the building land, in short, he shall cancel his management. But our task is the first task we have to be good masters in our congregations. I don't know why he doesn't understand why anyone wouldn't transfer land to the local community. Let's take a look at the legislation that's in force. The legislation that speaks of accelerated regional development, paragraphs 36 and 37, will see how this must be tolerated. Only the state doesn't want that. I want this to force the country to enforce its laws that we have adopted. But it's not to ignore us when we address it with a wish or a request or a request. However, it is clear to me whether someone is letting someone go economically or not. If I'm the owner and I can't use my property, I'm flattered. Economic. I'm not legally excused, but I'm economically relaxed. And if I have to do my basic functions as mayor, buy another building because mine's busy, but it's an economic relaxation for me. That's almost confiscation if we talk a little harsher. And I don't understand why some people separate or why some people think that mayors who claim that the state does its job to act against their citizens. The municipality must provide those services which the municipality must provide under law and those which the State must provide in administrative units. And don't let any of the mayors think of funding an administrative unit just because the state would threaten to take him away. Such a country, however, should be severely put on the pranger by questioning it if it threatens those who work for their citizens by taking them away from the administrative unit if they do not finance their activities. Thank God they weren't all elected mayors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you. We're opening a new circle. Please. Member Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Maybe that's another explanation for my colleague Bajc. The Agricultural Lands Fund Act also states that the fund or municipality is the legal successor of agricultural land managers, farms and forests. There's no third. The fund or the congregation. And if something has to be endured, then the congregation is the one to which the fund can then transfer these lands. In your explanation for this amendment, you have made it very clear that you want to recapitalise the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia with these lands faster and easier. Why would the municipalities recapitalize the state housing fund? Why? There's no reason. If the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia wants to build, then it can be agreed with the municipality, it gets this plot, the municipality, and so on, and forces and forces this land not to be considered as the price of this apartment and this arrangement is possible to solve the housing problem if the municipality is the owner. The Housing Fund cannot be justified in any way to obtain these land in the manner set out in this law. With regard to administrative units, I would also say that the municipalities were also in such a state that all the premises that they were meeting for the tasks that had been transferred to the country remained, I would say, intended for these tasks. And the congregations had to arrange for themselves many times. They never got it back. It is therefore justified on several occasions to charge rents today for those premises in which administrative units operate. Nor is it fair for those congregations that had to finance themselves to get to their premises, for example, for other municipalities to build complete premises for administrative units. So inequality. And here this inequality could be eliminated mainly by charging the rent for those administrative units that have stayed where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you. Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President! Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment is controversial in many ways, but it must also be said that the municipalities have the right to charge a tax on unburied building land if the land is not built. That's also a fact. And the country governing the PUP, the planning act of individual municipalities in a certain period of time, is underestimated or under-scheduled, because the needs for building are greater than in fact actual alignment with spatial acts. I know these cases from Séžana. It's a lot of young families who want to set up, in fact, to solve their individual housing problem with their financial resources, either by borrowing, renting credits or whatever, and they can't do that because they have land that's not walled up. And this need for individuals who are multiplicity is, in fact, slowly following these needs. That's a fact. The fund or the congregation. I'll say so. The housing funds in our country, if they are actually following some needs, are also doing so by following a profit, and with some added value they are investing in these areas, in which the congregation invests many times. That's right. I have to agree with what was said. The communal arrangement is completely in the burdensome municipalities. Then the agreement issued, the added value invested in the land, is complete, in the burden of the municipalities. That's a fact. Many times those who come and build do not take part in this in the form of a wider social interest than they should. In individual constructions, however, it is interesting that we always charge for this. We can't let anyone in here. And then we hit an individual's pocket or a company. That's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Sam, even though I am not the mayor, and I have not run for office, I understand this amendment as a sophisticated attempt by the state to try or open up the possibility of damaging the municipality or municipal property in some way. There are many reasons for such thinking. First reason. I am not concerned about those municipal lands that are not municipally regulated and the state before the municipality does anything on this land, municipal offices, executes spatial implementing acts, says that the land is fine, and we would have this land and we would have it ourselves. In this case, if the consent of the municipal council is obtained, the state should also regulate it, even if it is a land that the municipality will not use or does not have in some spatial plans listed as a wish to create, on its own, any added value or economic entity wishing to invest in that municipality. The problem is, in marriage or marriage, you wrote down that the local community must act economically. If that is not the case, we are talking about a bad local community or a bad congregation. And speaking of administrative units, I must say that the implementation of some government Members simply does not go hand in hand with what the Minister in charge of public administration tells us. It is the wish of the Minister or the wish of this Government, which the Minister represents to bring the country closer to all citizens and citizens, either via the internet we all use or by making it accessible in all municipalities in this country. We have decided to have and respect local self-government in this country. Therefore, I do not understand the excuses that administrative units in some municipalities will not be able to pay or have to pay rent for certain facilities, if the priority of this ministry and this government is to bring the public administration closer. And you will not convince me that the state does not own any property, no land or no money, given that it spends it in different areas and throws it out of the window sometimes, or gives it to someone who does not belong to it, that it cannot buy one object and say, but there will be an administrative unit here, because this country is committed to making public service or public administration available to all citizens, even those who do not yet have the Internet, even though we know that by the end of this mandate there will be no more things that cannot be regulated online. That's why I find such excuses very, very strange. That is why I believe that if we accept this amendment today, it is a fine way for certain congregations to be able to harm themselves. And there is a difference between speaking to some government members and to the minister. Let's get it together! I would also like to know whether the Minister or Government supports this amendment, since he says that it will bring people closer to the government, no matter what. For you speak otherwise, you say that if we do not accept this, the government will withdraw. In some municipalities, there will be no more administrative units because the state has no money. But just yesterday, I listened to how well this country is doing, what is the economic growth, how much money there is, how low inflation, and today, to those who question this amendment and the honesty of this amendment, you are trying to tell us if the congregation does not give us something for free, and unfortunately these people in that congregation will no longer have access to the administrative unit. That seems a little unserious, two-faced, as I said in the beginning. As I said before, I will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u75	Thank you. Member Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Now I would really like to ask myself if we even know what law we are talking about and which amendment they are proposing after this last debate. With this concrete amendment, we only include the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in the internal real estate market. This amendment does not take a square metre to local communities. I'll try, colleague Weber, to the end. I fully agree with your debate and colleague Rezman, but this debate, at least part or in whole, would be the subject of a meeting of the National Assembly in 1994, when the Law on Local Self-Government was passed and the famous one, if you remember, the 101st article, which says that the real estate and movable property on the 10th day was adopted, I do not know exactly which, at the time when the law was adopted, used administrative units for their purposes, remained in their use and the other premises went to local communities. And I know, given that I was president of the Assembly in 1994, and then the mayor, that we had an agreement with the then President of the Executive Council. We mixed up that there was a municipal administration in one tract of the building; there was a government or administrative unit in the other tract. I also know that after two, three years, we agreed that the congregation of all those premises had not used against the rent, then the Executive Council or the State Administration paid the rent after the application of this law for certain premises. However, this amendment does not interfere with this property relationship. However, I agree with what colleague Weber said that we also include the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in the internal real estate market, but I hope that the legal services will determine whether this is the case or not. But we don't take this amendment, I repeat, not a square metre of land to the municipalities. We may, however, take the expectations of the municipalities that those lands that are or should have already been regulated by ownership since 1993 when the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests was passed, but to date they are owned or owned by the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, and these land transfers the fund to the Housing Fund for housing purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you. Replica, colleague Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u78	It's a replica of a colleague of Bajc's. In your explanation for this amendment, you have made it very clear that, under this provision, the transfer of management would be easier to carry out according to the provisions of the proposed law, much faster and easier to recapitalise the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. So with huge square meters, my colleague Bajc, you will recapitalize the housing fund, the Republic Housing Fund. It's written that way and it's not understood.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you. Member shall have the floor [[...]] [[He had a replica.]] Allow me to lead the session. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I am not the mayor, and I will never be the mayor, but I would still attract the mayor on this matter for the next reason. First of all, I would like to say that I would support this amendment myself if the self-governing local community were listed in the first part of this amendment, namely, if I just read it: "Participants of the internal [[?]] the real estate markets of the country are the authorities of the state administration, the self-governing local communities and the agricultural land fund." Then I would also like this proposal for this amendment, because now the local self-government community is really attached at the end if anything remains in this logic. [[...]] But I wanted to point out one other thing when we're discussing this subject. This is not only about the situation on 10.3.1993, but of course it is about someone, as I would say, the responsibility of a self-governanced local community. The self-governing local community is the one that has responsibility for housing policy, land management, a specific purpose of use, space, as it is legally and implemented through laws. And if he already has this responsibility, then of course he is also right to have powers and to be at the forefront of these powers. It can't be arranged somewhere in a glass palace somewhere in Ljubljana. People live there, and these are policies that deal directly with people in the environment. No one in the glass palace can handle the housing problem in the village of Lazec, the municipality of the Loški brook, because they do not know where it is yet. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that, when we speak and follow this principle, we are talking about more consistent regional development in Slovenia on several occasions in this Chamber. This is one of the principles to be followed and implemented through this law and, say, through this amendment. That's what I wanted to point out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you. There's a minister's word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I am surprised that this amendment has been debated in this way because, on the heart, this amendment does not in fact bring anything that no longer exists in marriage. The Government may by decision transfer any real property owned by the State and in the hands of one operator at any time to the hands of another controller by decision already under the law, either way. I can honestly say that I see no special benefit in this amendment. He's more symbolic, and I don't see any damage to the law in this amendment. However, I must say that when the Government decides in such cases, from case to case, and it is always the catalyst of the Ministry of Public Administration that prepares the proposal or determines whether the transfer is justified or not, I will always take the lead of the local community because I firmly believe that it is always easier and economically available to the local community that knows the problem of the area. That should be the basic principle. This is the basic principle of decentralisation in the final phase. As this amendment also opened a discussion on Article 103 of the Law on State Administration and the relations between the State and the municipalities regarding the premises of administrative units. 101st and 103rd, they're both handling this issue. I have to say, I'm really sorry that this problem is reopening. In fact, I asked Mr Rezman on the Committee not to open this issue because, over the years, this problem has calmed down and there has been normalisation between the country and the municipalities where these relations were previously abnormal, I can say. We know a Kran case where the mayor's kind of throwing an administrative unit out of the premises. Now these things run well. I argue that there could be another cleaner solution from 1.1.1995. A cleaner solution would be the establishment of co-ownership. If the state took over part of its jurisdiction from the former congregation, it would be logical for it to take over part of its property with these powers. Just as she took over the staff, as she took over the equipment, she should probably take over the co-ownership. Again, for reasons of rationality, property was then left to the congregations and a kind of usable right, a kind of service was established for the benefit of the State. And these things, I think they work really well today. I don't see any bigger problems. When it comes to investments, some adaptations and the like, we sit down and we make a deal. Of course, we seek to set up administrative centres in individual local environments to bring together all the public administration services operating there. At times, the congregations were very much in the way of the country. Rather, a fine example of the congregation’s co -financing of the building of the national home, the transfer of an administrative unit and some other services. We have a beautiful administrative centre, a modern one, partly co-financed by the municipality, although it is a state function. That's how I don't really see big problems here. I would like to point out once again, it is now an impression that this law or at least this amendment is some kind of sabotage that takes property from the congregations or lays the groundwork for the state to take some property and transfer it to itself. The truth is the opposite. One key emphasis of the law is this possibility of transferring real property, including free of charge, without a call from the country to the municipality. This is one of the essential components of the law. I think that Mr Friday said in the debate in the introduction that there are quite a few substantive ministers who have already announced that this transfer will take place and that they are just waiting for a legal basis. I am confident that this will indeed take place in this direction, so that the municipalities will create this pressure on the ministers of the field, positive pressure that those parcels and buildings that do not have the proper utility are transferred to the municipalities in the local areas, because I am sure they will be able to use them more economically.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. I'm opening a new application procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. If I understood the Minister correctly, maybe this amendment wouldn't even have to be, or that supplement that I gave. But I would like to go to concrete practice in the last ten years where the country and the local community have met. This is where we are sitting today, in Ljubljana. I'm not saying that the state will do the same as it did in the past. Maybe she'll do something different in the future. But what was transferred from the local community of Ljubljana to the country, one way or another. Does anyone know what kind of income Ljubljana has had since then in these ten years? However, a huge, huge amount of property, especially real estate, was transferred to the country. I don't know what else. Ljubljana is less than nothing. At least that's what practice has shown so far. And the country has always proved to be the stronger partner in this negotiation if things are not clearly set up. That's why I'm warning you again, I'd support you if you were in the first part. I do not agree, however, that under the conditions of a specific regulation, which will be later, the local community may also be. Such a way, such a principle of work means the practice that has taken place over the past ten years in Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. My friend Janko Weber, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. I would agree with the Minister if his efforts were to be translated into an amendment and this is recorded in this article, which is currently open, that municipalities have the advantage of transferring these land from the agricultural fund. The municipalities have the advantage. Let's write this in this amendment and I think we can really keep a close eye on what's going to happen to these lands. Otherwise, we will certainly refer to the Law on Public Funds because the municipalities have become landowners and also to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands, where it also makes it very clear that after the denationalisation they become landowners or are transferred to their own municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. Comrade Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u88	Well, that's exactly what I was going to say in the introduction that the first ones in this amendment should be written by the municipalities because it is land in the territory of the municipalities, not that the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will build on free land in the municipality of Ruše. It's absurd, it's nonsense. And I'm just waiting for Mr. Minister to propose to the municipalities, because he talked earlier about co-financing, that municipalities co-finance the construction of a new palace for the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Is there still a desire to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're going to 1 2. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Certain Questions in relation to the Construction of Subjects at Border Transitions. The hearing shall take place on an urgent basis. We have two hours and 30 minutes of debate scheduled for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Virant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! After this lively debate on the real property of the state and local communities, we are moving to a law that complements the law that was passed in 2001 in the National Assembly, the Law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of buildings at border crossing points. The essence of this marriage novel is to facilitate the completion of the project establishing the southern border, the so-called Schengen border. This project has been going on for several years, running according to plan. The objects linked to European funding to the Phare project are completed. Those involved in Schengen financing or funding from the Schengen source have been concluded in due time before the end of last year, but of course there are still some work left, some work, some projects before the completion of the Southern Border, and we want to eliminate all threats, all of which could still be put on the road before the end of this project. The 2001 Act facilitates procedures, in particular land acquisition procedures and procedures for obtaining construction documentation, building permits at this southern or Schengen border. In fact, the novela that is ahead of you is only a little more simplifying or accelerating these procedures. This year, when the project is to be completed, we do not want to leave anything to chance. Of course, in all cases, we are trying to obtain land in agreement and in the vast majority of cases this is also successful. As a last resort or "ultimum remedium", as it is called, of course, the law provides for decommissioning. Not just the novelty of this law, but the law has provided for the dissolution of such cases from the very beginning, since 2001. In such cases, it is undoubtedly an intervention in property rights, but a constitutionally permissible, constitutionally permissible intervention, since our Constitution permits discharge for the satisfaction of the public benefit, but, of course, an appropriate compensation must be provided to the looser, which outweighs his loss or corresponds to the market value of the land that is loosed. The project we are talking about is undoubtedly an extremely public benefit. Construction of border crossings at the southern border according to Schengen standards is a condition for Slovenia to enter the Schengen area, into the Schengen regime, which is undoubtedly in the interest of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Once again, it is a matter of minor changes to the law, such as the fact that the same land regime, which now applies to cases where border crossings are regulated by a national location plan, is extended to cases where border crossings are regulated by municipal spatial acts. It is, for example, to shorten the deadlines available to owners to identify up to the offer of the purchase price offered by the State. The practice has shown that those owners who are in favour of a negotiated solution are quick to decide and that in fact only those who do not decide on a negotiated solution use these long-term hands. That's why it makes sense to cut this deadline short. And there's a few other little things like that in the marriage. There was also a debate on the title of the law on the working body. With this change, we did not want to trigger such controversy. It is actually more of a cosmetic correction to avoid this bureaucratic Latvian, "the law on the regulation of certain issues". It's just a law that regulates the construction of buildings on the southern border. All those issues that are not regulated by this law are regulated or covered by the general building legislation and other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u91	Minister, thank you. In the framework of the parliamentary procedure, the draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a working body. The chairman of the committee, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, will report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed at the 31st urgent meeting we had yesterday and at its first resumed meeting, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of facilities at border crossing points. The representative of the applicant explained in the supplementary explanation the reasons for the adoption of amendments and the addition of the applicable law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained the comments of this service, which had already been made in their written opinion, explaining that, with regard to the proposed text of Article 1, the service assesses that the proposed amendment to the title is now questionable within the meaning of a systemic aspect. In addition, it stated and, in relation to Article 5, it explained that the legal system in force is more appropriate since the duty of landowners or land users is linked to the adopted location plan. It also highlighted the findings relating to Article 7 and the representatives of the applicant also responded to those comments and, with regard to the comment to Article 1, it was explained that the law fully regulates the construction of facilities at border crossings and further regulates the procedures for the construction of buildings. However, other rules which generally regulate the construction of buildings apply only if this law does not provide otherwise and therefore the application of the general rules is only subsidiary. With regard to the comment to Article 5, the applicant stated that the public benefit for the construction of buildings at border crossings was already demonstrated by the law itself, since the third paragraph of Article 1 expressly provided that the construction of the border crossing was in the public interest and in the public interest. Furthermore, with regard to the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service to Article 7, it was clarified that the amendment procedure identified cases which were an exception to the general procedure for the acquisition of property for the construction of border crossings. So it's not standard practice. In the debate, we discussed in particular the appropriateness and appropriateness of Article 1 and 5 of the proposal on amendments and additions to the law, which is why Member Pavel Gantar proposed to the Committee that it adopt its amendment to Article 1 of the proposal. Article 1 of the proposal is deleted, but the amendment has not been adopted. After the discussion and the vote, the Committee adopted all the remaining articles of the law, supported them and proposed them for adoption to this assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. For the pay phone, I'd like to invite Mrs. Mario Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The main objective of the proposal is to implement projects and procedures relevant to the establishment of the EU external border in line with Schengen standards. It will also provide for the possibility of drawing on the financial resources allocated to the EU's external border control. Agreement procedures for landowners will be accelerated to provide for the construction of buildings in the border crossing area. It will also be more effective to acquire real estate for the construction of border crossings. That's all well and good, but I personally believe that the bill is full of ambiguities, but they were not able to be clarified by the government's representatives at the meeting yesterday. This lack of clarity has also been pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service. Furthermore, I do not agree that the buildings are being built on the territory of Slovenia, but not where the border is. For example, let me say Petišovci and say an object at the Dragoz border. Because of that proposal, I will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your position. Mr Rudolf Petan, however, will give his position to the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! In early 2008 Slovenia took a step in the so-called "Schengen". This essentially means that our border with the Republic of Croatia will become the EU's external border. This, of course, also means that we need to arrange and build all necessary infrastructure for the good and efficient functioning of all the services needed to do so. Slovenia will also have the opportunity to draw on European funds in order to regulate everything necessary. And what exactly does it take to build? In accordance with the amendments adopted to the implementation plan for the implementation of the Schengen standards adopted by the Government, Slovenia must build or reconstruct 17 border crossing points at its border. Perhaps it would not be wrong to read them: Bistrica ob Sotla, Zavrč, Sočerga, Sečovlje, Petišovci, Dobovec, Rigonce, Babna field, Petrina, Vinica, Oresje, Name, Ormož, Gibina, Crossroad, Podplanina and Upper Leskovec. However, in order for Slovenia to draw on European funds, we need to meet certain conditions and also within a certain period of time, namely the construction or reconstruction of those border crossings must be carried out in accordance with standards. The completion is related to 30.9.2007 and the drawdown of financial resources to 31.12.2007. In order to carry out construction or reconstruction, the Ministry of Public Administration, which carries out a statutory mandate of an authorised investor, shall obtain a single authorisation for the construction of border crossings no later than 1.5.2007. However, in order to carry out all those activities, the Ministry must acquire land for the construction of border crossings in advance of the procedure prescribed by law. The procedures and deadlines for land acquisition for the construction of border crossings now make it significantly difficult to reach the deadlines mentioned above, and therefore there is a high risk that Slovenia will not be able to draw on Schengen funds. In any event, Slovenia will have to build these facilities. If we do all the activities in a timely manner, we will get some of the funds from the European Union, otherwise the full cost will be on our shoulders or on our budget. Due to its great responsibility for the budget, the aim of the law is to speed up land-building procedures for the construction of border crossings and thus to speed up the acquisition of a single permit for the construction of border crossings, since the latter is also a condition for the start of construction of buildings in the border crossing area. The proposed amendments and additions to the law thus ensure that all activities are carried out within the prescribed time limit. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we support activities to speed up these procedures and to uniformly regulate land restrictions in the area of all border crossings, with a clear determination to prepare an elaborator to establish the public benefit of building border crossings, speeding up procedures, reducing procedures, communicating with landowners. The proposed amendment establishes a new authorised investor for the construction of the border crossing, resulting from the reorganisation of the state administration and the abolition or transition of the Common Government Services Service as a former authorised investor. The law also stipulates that building a border crossing is in the public interest and in the public interest. Due to all the above facts and the possibility of drawing on European funds, obtaining European funds, we support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Gantar has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister and colleague, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Parliamentary Club, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of buildings at border crossings. In our view, the proposed legislation to accelerate land acquisition and the construction of border crossings goes beyond the boundaries of a decent and acceptable country in the rule of law that respects the principle of private property. Of course, the minister stressed that, by 1.1.2008, the real purpose of the law was to build and restore all the necessary border crossing points at the Schengen border as soon as possible, to acquire land, obtain funds from the European Union and by the deadline of 1.1.2008. Obviously, however, the intentions seem to be good, drastic and draconian, while the results seem to be likely to turn against these purposes, and we will have, in the face of the draconian law, radical means of interfering with the state's private and property excuses that we will have nothing previously built these objects than we would like. The current law of truth to the heart, the minister knows that I know him, is such that it is at the border. To put the country outside the actors and add rights and obligations to it, which are, in other words, within the limits of acceptable and decent. And the law that is today, these changes, it brings two or three things and arrangements that we cannot accept. First of all, the amendment of the law, which is supposed to be a new law on the construction of buildings at border crossings. The minister says it's a cosmetic repair. At its level and at its micro level, I agree. Cosmetic correction that has serious legal implications. As you know, regulation, construction of buildings is governed by spatial and construction legislation, including environmental and some other, and in certain types of facilities, especially state infrastructure, the State decides to adapt certain things to this construction by special law and has a law on specific issues, on the regulation of certain issues, such as highways etc. And so was the present law. But this legislation is governed by the recognition of general spatial legislation, and special matters are regulated by some special additional law. And this law opens the way. I will not say that the government will go this way, Minister, but open the way for us to separate a single area of spatial planning, even though we are adopting a new law now and we will have a law on building border crossings, we will be able to have a law on building industrial buildings, a law on construction, I do not know what and we will break a single spatial planning system. That's a serious problem. After this law, a restaurant will also be able to be built at the border crossing if so determined. One way or another, we could say a civilian object, if I may say so. Will this be the only narrower border crossing area and how wide will this border crossing be defined or there are extensions here, I cannot say for sure, even in intervention within the jurisdiction of the municipalities? I proposed an amendment to remove this dilemma. He wasn't accepted. The second, and even more important, aspect is the identification of public benefits that can affect ownership rights and property rights. This finding of public benefit is linked to spatial implementing acts, location plans, wall plans and anything similar. Everyone, including the MPs who are mayors here, knows why. Only a spatial implementing act allows for the exact definition of the necessary land necessary to build the facility to be specified in the parcel. When we know exactly what the object is, we can demand relaxation and so on. Ellaborat is a general laboratory. It can happen that it will require the spread of 60 hectares and the spatial implementation act will show that only 30 hectares are needed. Unjustifiable interference in property rights and property. I, Minister, if anyone complains - and can complain precisely because some people will be affected here - fear that this provision does not stand a chance of surviving the Constitutional Court and thus can also deny the construction of buildings. Why accept this law? Especially because in recent years the government has not promised what it is to accelerate what the previous Government has read, that it has not done, has not done it itself - nothing better or even worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u100	The Schengen Agreement and the Convention were created outside the EU legislative framework. The European acquis was incorporated by a specific Protocol in 1999, which means that the Schengen acquis applies throughout the EU, except in certain areas where they were exempted from the Schengen area at their own request. The Schengen acquis, of course, as is known, ensures not only the free movement of people without border controls but also establishes common obligations, sets common rules for ensuring security, including the establishment of a common visa regime, coordination between police, customs and judicial authorities and measures to combat crime. According to a new timeline adopted in December 2006, Slovenia will be able to lift control at the internal land and sea borders with EU members by 31.12.2007 at the air borders by March 2008. Therefore, in our New Slovenia Group, we see the proposed amendments to the law as a guarantee to accelerate the effectiveness of land-mining procedures, also as a result of the fulfilment of our obligations in relation to the construction of border crossings; of course, taking into account the limitations of private property, but also taking into account the proportionality of the protection of private property on the one hand and the public good on the other hand and the public benefit on the other. As it is said, work on border crossings is expected to take place in 2008, and this has an impact on the possibility of drawing on the financial resources provided by the EU to implement the Schengen standards. In New Slovenia, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u102	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The new law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of facilities at border crossings is adopted by emergency procedure. The speedy adoption of the law is indeed necessary in our view, taking into account the fact that in 2007 it is necessary to complete, as we have learned from the material, 16 border crossings due to the transition to "Schengen" - at least let us hope that this date will no longer move - from 1.1.2008. In particular, it is important that these constructions and repairs will be co-financed by European resources and the deadline for drawing on these funds is until the end of this year. It is therefore necessary to speed up the construction of border buildings or border crossing arrangements and by adopting the amendment of the law, to speed up those processes which make work at certain border crossings lagging behind the planned ones. The bill thus provides a solution to accelerate land production for the purpose of building border crossings and shortens the other communication procedures with landowners where the construction of a border crossing is envisaged for the needs of Schengen. In addition to some shorter deadlines and ensuring conditions for faster construction of border crossings, the law also commits to more active cooperation with the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, we must stress that we expect that state authorities, local authorities and legal entities will always cooperate well on important issues and do not refuse mutual assistance and that there will be no conflict between them. In a specific case, the more specific rules of the law will certainly contribute to greater cooperation among all those involved in addressing land production in order to build these border crossings. It may not be too much to point out that, despite the necessary interference with the rights of individuals due to the public interest, the construction of border crossings must be sufficiently high for the protection of property and other rights. In view of everything that has been said and on the basis of a comprehensive explanation in the proposal for the amendment of the law, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of facilities at border crossings.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The law on the regulation of certain issues related to the construction of border crossings is actually necessary in relation to Schengen standards, but in the Slovenian National Party we are essentially asking whether the border is even set. I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as it has already been heard, to propose these border crossings just to be established on Slovenian territory. Is this in line with our interests, or is the national interest of the Republic of Slovenia represented here? Look, we are paying the European Members who have done absolutely nothing in Brussels on this issue. This question is open and what Croatia is doing today, we know. We are talking about how necessary it is for us to draw on these funds by 31.12.2007. Whatever Europe tells us, and even if it's just a regulation, let's put it on the agenda right now and in front of the witness, and we're forgetting Slovenia's national interests. Of course, in addition to such arguments, which are irrelevant to non-supporting this, I would also like to hear some weighty one. And I'll tell you. We will not support this in our party until Slovenia resolves the border issue with Europe. The European mission is to help us do this. Here we are left to ourselves, but when it comes to a limit that some countries would like to move a little southerly, there is no problem; then there is also money and the will of Europe to move these border areas to our area. We simply cannot agree that Europe does not want to listen to Slovenia on this request. And even on the basis of the work of the European Members, for which we pay huge sums of money from our budget, I think nothing has been done in this area. From here I also ask the European Members what they are doing in Brussels. Foreign Minister, we know he's doing nothing; in this area, he can only make big mistakes. Today, however, we are saying that this law is necessary, that an investor is already established, that we have a prepared laboratory that sets public benefits for the construction of the border crossing, and that we are reducing even the hands and that we are enforcing the greater and stronger will of the Agricultural Land Fund in doing so. Nice and good, but first solve the national border issue for Slovenia. That's the government's job. And when we talk about what the principle of private property is, you know, today, if there's a public interest, then it can also be done without changing this law. This is a well-known fact. There is an offer to replace the same land, the same category, the owner, and if there is a public interest, this replacement must also take place. Therefore, the necessity of this law, expressed in such a request that this is now something that we must do immediately, is unacceptable until the interest of Slovenia is protected, and this border with Croatia is fully resolved. Let them do this first in Brussels, and then we will give our consent to such a bad, fast-prepared law, which has only written wishes and the will of some officials who want what they have also financially supported, to move somewhere else as soon as possible. And the concern that is now in another country is to move us.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! Our DeSUS Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of buildings at border crossings. We believe that this must be done in line with plans to implement Schengen standards, border control itself and at the same time the European Union. That preparations for drawing on the financial resources of the European Union and the Schengen revenue resources are to be made immediately to indicate the date of the last application. It is therefore appropriate for the Ministry of Public Administration to acquire land for all building border crossings of the number involved in this change process as soon as possible. If we are not quick enough to implement the preparations, it may be impossible to draw on the resources that are intended for such construction. We also fully agree with that work on the preparation itself, which discusses the method of reception, the acquisition of real estate for the preparation necessary for the approval of the site permit, with the readiness of the plans necessary for the construction of such buildings. This amendment of legislation also concerns well-regulated legal protection, which the State will provide to all owners of property and will not interfere with private property without agreement. It is very important that an authorised investor should be designated in order to carry out such tasks, which is a prerequisite for the quality and consistency of all the projects envisaged. We also agree in that part that talks about mandatory monitoring of the borders of existing land of use, the prohibition of areas for which we will adopt a national location plan in the future. Of all the above, we want the DeSUS Group to play a more active role in the future, especially in the land management processes, in the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. The mother’s working body also gave a green light with the majority of the votes of the admission law in the National Assembly. As all procedures will thus be reduced, our Group of Members will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the draft law in the context of the urgent procedure. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO THE ORGANISATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AUTHENTIC EXPOSURE OF THE FIRST POINT OF PARAGRAPH 49. Member of the Law on Copyright and Social Rights. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted to the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. As the representative of the motioner is not in the Chamber, I proceed. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body and I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr William Rezman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This debate was encouraged by the general libraries in relation to the problems they have with understanding the individual provisions of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights and the Law on Librarianism. It is simple to interpret the rights of the free use of copyright services in the work of libraries, especially when it comes to literary dinners when it comes to fairy tale events when it comes to various promotions of books and similar activities. It is therefore a problem to define more precisely what is involved in the Bible’s work and whether it is the same work in libraries as teaching, organizing, teaching in schools. The Council of State has proposed the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49 of the Copyright and Related Rights Act of the first paragraph and point 1 of this first paragraph, and the Committee on the Economy has been designated as the parent working body. There were no particularly large and extensive discussions in this regard, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Office of Intellectual Property, the Legal and Legal Service, the ZAM, the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, the proposer, i.e. the representative of the Council of State itself. The position proposed for adoption by the Government is thus identical to that of the Legislative and Legal Service and the position of members and members of the home labour body, and it reads as follows: "The provisions of this Article of the ZASP, the Copyright and Related Rights Act are clear and no further authentic interpretation is necessary." It therefore agreed unanimously by the home committee and proposed that the Committee on the Economy, the National Assembly, should adopt a decision not to adopt the requirements for authentic interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for reasons of opinion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u111	Mr. Secretary, please. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Mag. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49, paragraph 1, of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights because it considers that this provision is clear and does not need to be further explained. In fact, the Copyright and Related Rights Act in Article 49 lays down one of the substantive limitations of copyright, i.e. one of the cases where copyright can be used without the author's permission and where the author does not have to pay any compensation for the use of his work. Article 49 is clearly set out in point 1 in order to allow for the free use of some copyright work for the purposes of teaching, in the form of a direct teaching. This means, for example, that a portion of the book can be read at school for the purpose of teaching, for example, which is common practice, where the book is protected by copyright. And there is no need for the author's right in advance, nor does the author have to pay any compensation. So, once again, both the proposer and the Government share the same interpretation of the provision in the same way, but they differ only in the way of solving the problem, which is not the basis for accepting an authentic explanation. Authentic interpretations are adopted when a provision has to be explained because it is unclear. That's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Rugelj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all Members and Members of Parliament and also to the representatives of the Government, especially to the Minister of Economy, Mr Visiak! The proposer for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49, paragraph 1, of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights shall state that libraries refuse payment for the public execution of works of copyright presented at so-called literary events. The reason given by the libraries is that, in accordance with the Library Act, they carry out the Bible’s work and thus promote the reading culture free of charge. The applicant states that libraries are equivalent to the Bible-pedagogical work with the teaching defined in Article 49 of the ZASP. Libraries consider that they are subject to free use in accordance with Article 49 of the ZASP and that the applicant is in no way identical to the teaching defined as education within the framework of regular institutions, since the Bible-pedagogical work is only one of the activities of libraries under Article 2 of the Library Act. The Law on Copyright and Related Rights in no way allows libraries free use of copyright. Therefore, the applicant proposes that paragraph 1 of Article 49(1) of the Copyright and Related Rights Act be understood as meaning that the public execution of published works in the form of direct instruction in institutions not carrying out school activities is not considered to be free of use within the meaning of point 1 of Article 49(1) of the ZASP. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after a detailed examination of the proposal of the State Council, considers that the adoption of an authentic interpretation is unnecessary since the provision of Article 49 of the Copyright and Related Rights Act is in itself sufficiently clear and since the entire text of this Article, under the general rule referred to in Article 46 of the ZASP, sets out clearly on which cases the application of the copyright relates to Article 49, paragraph 1, of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. The Government states that in the case of infringements of rights, the holder may exercise his rights against the offender, by which of the many judicial measures already provided for by ZASP. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly is also the same opinion as the Government. We have examined the proposal of the Council of State and the existing law together with the opinion of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group and have also found the law clear enough, so we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the National Assembly is not proposing authentic explanations because it is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The proposal for an interpretation of Article 49, paragraph 1, of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is certainly one of those details that, in all history, since this law has been in force, we have been trying to solve either for the benefit of those who listen and follow the works of art or we are trying to exercise the rights of those who create these works. In fact, the general books actually carry out not only library activities, but also definitely participate in lifelong education, but also have activities for children, young people, adults who are dedicated to the promotion of reading culture and also organise numerous lateral evenings, fairy tale hours and so on. The problem is that, of course, all of these activities do not go without selecting or representing a part of individual authors, since, last but not least, books are presented in libraries as such directly. Surely this is one of the important details of understanding this law. However, it is also our group's opinion that the text of Article 49 is clear and that it is difficult to accept an authentic interpretation with another substance, as it would have to change the text of the article or the law. To the extent that this happens, we will also try to identify these solutions on the basis of the collected data and, in particular, some realistic criteria and criteria that would enable the quality work of libraries in the future and, last but not least, the good work of authors, which are extremely important in general, last but not least, libraries exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u118	Nicely greeted! In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the decision taken on the home working body that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49(1) on copyright and related rights should not be adopted. Both the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service consider that the provision of the Copyright and Related Rights Act under consideration is so clear that an authentic interpretation is not necessary. We all know that it is the responsibility of the legislator to use the instrument of authentic interpretation. Authenticity shall be adopted when a provision of the law is unclear and needs to be clarified or further explained. In a specific case, there are clear provisions, and the professional public understands them equally and also interprets them on a case-by-case basis, i.e. it is not a vague provision, but rather a failure to respect the provisions or a violation of the rights of holders. However, in the event of a violation of rights, the holder may exercise his rights against the offender by means of a specific judicial measure already provided for by the Copyright and Related Rights Act. In the New Slovenia Group, we want to say that the State Council will not gain credibility with today's and similar examples of treatment in the National Assembly if it wants to contribute constructively more in the legislative field, except to veto certain laws with great satisfaction. I mention this because the content of the authentic explanation is not properly written. The proposer clearly understands Article 49 of the Copyright and Related Rights Act and wants to adopt an authentic explanation in order to solve a specific case. The proposed text of the authentic interpretation does not, however, make sense of the reasons cited by the applicant, since it can be understood that the text can also be taught directly in institutions which do not carry out school activities, which is not the case and obviously was not the intention of the applicant. So we think it was an empty shot.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for an authentic interpretation of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights was transmitted by the State Council. It proposes to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 49, paragraph 1, of the Act. Let me begin by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we join the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, last but not least, the Economic Committee, because we all find that the proposed authentic interpretation is not necessary. We must express substantive disagreement with the findings of the State Council regarding the application of Article 49 of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, the Bible-pedagogical work by reading books and promoting reading culture. Despite the important role of this work carried out by general libraries, it is not possible to interpret it in terms of the use of works of art for teaching purposes. Of course, the opinion of the booklets, which also consider their work to be a teaching in accordance with Article 49, is not relevant. Clearly, we also agree with the competent experts. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the law specifically regulates the issue of the free exercise of public works in the form of direct instruction. That is why we will not support the proposal for a law to adopt an authentic explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u122	Nor will our Group support the proposal for an authentic explanation. But we don't think there's any need to think about the content that comes with it. It is clear to all that what was desired would not be an authentic explanation, but a change in the material content of some legislation, which is not allowed by authentic explanations. The question is whether there is any need for a change in any article, that is, the material content of the law. The question about this is whether, in these forms of cultural events, the author himself is being promoted, or whether the author is benefiting from this, for example, because he gets to know himself, he would say, the wider public with his works, because it allows for greater accessibility. It promotes the way in which those who do so have certain costs by buying, by feeding, by processing individual material, we call it, as well as the cost of those who are ultimately required to pay for children in tender youth to carry out fairy tale hours, for example. So on the one hand we have costs and on the other hand we can also have promotions, dissemination not only of culture, but also of individual author and the question is whether this arrangement, as we now have, is entirely appropriate. I'm not saying it isn't, and I'm not 100% sure it is. If you hold the information that 20 or 30 such fairy tales occur in Slovenia every day, it is important, therefore, for a very important cultural activity, for education and probably it would be right to invite the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Culture to consider whether or not any change is necessary. Because these 10,000 events annually, however, are a considerable financial cost for general libraries. As a result, as I say, the authors can even benefit materially from this by increasing their visibility if this increases the sales of products, etc. In short, the DeSUS Group proposes that any amendment to any article be considered at the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Sport and that the authentic interpretations themselves do not support or support the proposal for a decision drawn up on the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you. I do not need a longer debate, but because I think that the views presented so far by the visas of this proposal are in place that this question, which is being raised, which has been opened in the State Council, may also mean that, if it comes in the context of challenging the Copyright Act, it could also constitute a certain distortion of the rights of authors and authors, which of course we do not agree with, but given that it has been expressed just by the representative of DeSUS, that it is necessary to call or that it would make sense to call on the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture to consider whether it is necessary to resolve this issue differently, it would have had quite a lot of doubts about such a proposal. I think that legislation is clear and clearly also properly protecting authors, asking whether it is a cost for libraries in cases where they have to pay compensation for copyright or for the use of copyright, unnecessary costs or not, it does not seem reasonable to me, because, as I say, it is not a matter of finding where, what "supplies" in terms of the distortion of authors and authors. In short, this dilemma that arises and is not new and that occurs several times and that revolves around the question of when an exception may arise, when consideration can be given to the payment of compensation to the author for the use of the author's work, it is clear. The law states that in teaching, there is no need to pay compensation in the school process, so that material and copyright rights must be taken into account. However, if there are exceptions to libraries when a literary evening or some educational process is carried out in a broader way, but not in a narrow sense, I think it is also clear that it is necessary that the proceeds are useful and meaningful here, because, at the end of the evening, if we allow ourselves to deviate from libraries, this kind of derogation could also be questioned in other forms of education in a broader sense, such as, say, literary evenings, the presentation of books and so on. Except, of course, those who are already in law and talk about that these exceptions can also occur in the reproduction of educational television shows and elsewhere; it is said, at free school celebrations. In short, I agree that it is only reasonable to reject such a proposal so that these exceptions can take place in libraries, and not even to question new ones now or to seek new solutions by calling on both ministries to find ways to reduce the cost of libraries, thus, of course, hurting the authors and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u126	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear fellows and fellows! Of course, I agree with such an explanation of the law. In fact, the authors in Slovenia have already been hit too often and their work has been made available here, we have already experienced this in this National Assembly, but again someone wants to reduce the costs to someone else at the expense of the third, of course it is neither wise nor unfair. I support this mandatory explanation because it protects the authors, which I think is fair and must be true. As far as libraries are concerned, there's more to be said. After all, organizing education, organising education through reading literature is certainly not the basic activity of libraries, but it helps them more with their own popularisation, says a visit from elsewhere. And it is only right that this exploitation, the use of works of art, is charged here. Somewhere else it would be good to establish such things and not always to count that that miserable payment received by the authors is a payment once and for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Check-in is on. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Well, when I was thinking, trying to think, I wasn't talking about what's smart, and not what's fair. I simply suggested that others who are perhaps more competent than we are might consider how to help general libraries. We know how general libraries are financed, partly from municipal budgets, partly by ministries. And if anyone else, I think the librarians, fairy tale tellers and others will be pleased with the initiative to consider their situation and their work. The law is clear, there is no doubt about it. But the law is not invariable. Just as even the Constitution is not invariable, it is not infernal to think that any law may also change, supplement or modify, as we say every day in Parliament. That's why we're here. And I didn't say anything about having to be in the debate that we should be right authors. This may be done in a different way, making the contributions of those who provide cultural activity more important. So that libraries can be unloaded in such a way that their incomes may also be higher. Therefore, I think that nothing should be wrong with thinking about it, because if all Slovenian libraries are thinking about it, which they are doing every day, then it is worth thinking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided by the assembly, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, or no later than 21.15, which I do not think will be. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE ROMAN COMMUNITY LAW. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimeniti. With regard to this law, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Article 134, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposer of the law for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Victory Elinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The Romani Community Act is essentially a very hot topic. And the first thing that can and must be said about this law is that in the Republic of Slovenia we must and should be equal before the law, before the Constitution, equal treatment, equal debt, equal responsibility and equal rights. So far, Gypsies are talking about the Romani Community Act, which is either way segregation, because Sinti and other members of the gypsy tribe are excluded, so there's already a mistake here. However, I do not know why some people in Slovenia in educational institutions, where we send them for our money, could be threatened with weapons. If I don't pass the driver's test, I'm gonna shoot you, I'm gonna slaughter you, I'm gonna kill you -- those are the usual threats, because most of those people aren't even literate. And of course, driving exams do! European projects that promote the education of the unemployed do not apply at all, but require direct money to make it easier for them to survive or to operate in their districts. Attack, slaughter, kill. Actually, what's going on? I'm talking about the Dolen Gypsies, one segment of the Dolen Gypsies, especially the former Brajdič family, which has now been renamed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u131	Mr. Jelinčič [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u132	The Strojan family. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u133	Mr. Jelinčič, may I remind you, please, if you can accept my wish. We're talking about the Roma community, not the Gypsies.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u134	Mr President, you don't know either the Slovenian language or the etimology, you don't know anything and please don't talk. Learn something already! What a Roma community! Gypsies are all over the world, and that's what Mr Bučar told you on TV quite a few times, and since then there has been peace as far as that is concerned. Do not sit on some flossules that are being consumed by quasi-liberals and ex-communisers. The problem that the law deals with and solves can only be solved in such a way that everyone is equal before the Constitution and the law, and there are no other options. Nor does Europe allow for privileged castes or privileged groups. Slovenia already has two privileged groups, the Italian and Hungarian communities, they have a double electoral right, which is incomprehensible in Europe and we will also have to open something here. And instead of getting close to Europe, we are approaching the Balkans. And what will be accomplished by this law if we do not accept it? That some people will be privileged to have a blessing for pedophilia, a blessing for criminal acts, a blessing for non-compliance with laws, regulations, and everything else. Why do the rest of us Slovenians, citizens of Slovenia, have to stick to these laws? Why? If we don't pay the tax, there's a tax company coming in, they just take us out of our account or close our account, or they take the house, or they take the house. Not once has something like this ever happened to a gypsy. More! They even have a police escort when driving unregistered vehicles across Slovenia up and down from one of their homes to another. For Slovenian citizens, who are hugely at the edge of survival or beyond, no one is cared for, because this somehow does not go along, one story must be found, around which beautiful "liberalcommunist" variants are confused, which want to appear in the most beautiful light. And yet nothing has ever happened before, never happened what should have been arranged; in short, equal respect for laws for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It must also be said that among these Gypsies, who do not respect our laws and the Constitution, there are many people who are not even citizens at all, but, of course, with the help of the former structure, they have come to Slovenia and here are "faring" long and narrow. And before that, I mentioned Strojan's family, over 700 criminal charges against her head and no prosecution, including pedophile rape of girls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I don't have anything to add, even though I wanted to. However, I would only remind you, honourable Members and Members, that I also know what it says on the website of the Institute for Slovenian Language Francet Ramovša in the dictionary of the Slovenian Language on Gypsy. It does say that this is the people who came from India. It's the only good side, everything else is a bad idea. That is why I have also turned my back on this and asked if the Member could name the group as well as the law we are talking about today. Please, ma'am. Spending - wants a procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I want to express my indignation at the case of the hate speech we just witnessed. And I would ask you, Mr President, to respond to all further instances of hostile speech and to warn and ask that the speaker ceases to be designated as impossible to mark the ethnic community which used the term Roma for its common name. And just as the expression gypsy in that address was used, it was used poorly. I will not talk about all the other discredits that could be heard, but what was heard was not an additional explanation of the bill and I would ask that speakers at least warn that they should stick to the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Here's a presentation of your views, please? [[...]] Here you go. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Mr President! I'm asking you to stop saying things like that, such stupid claims as we've heard before. Otherwise, I cannot understand this procedural question or proposal. Your Member, former Member of Parliament, can be named by name and surname, Jerca Mrzelj, has written on the prized CD of the parliamentary "dixi band" in another song: The fate of the Gypsy. Not Romanesque! Please! And she's talking about hate speech, and we're talking about hate speech? The Slovenian folk song says "Run, run, Gypsies go", not Rom. Vlado Kreslin sings, "They're here to confuse the Gypsies." Hello!Oh, my God! Or don't they speak hostilely to you and we do?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u139	Mr Zagorac, what are you proposing with your procedural question? Nothing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the LDS delegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The LDS Group is convinced that the proposed law of the Group of Members with the first-signed Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti does not regulate or resolve the problem of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia and does not contribute to improving its position. The Roma community, as a minority community, can preserve its ethnic characteristics only by granting it special rights by the majority nation, while the proposed law denies it these special rights. The explanation of the Constitutional Court, in its 2001 decision, states: "The constitutional power referred to in Article 65 allows the legislator to provide the Roma community and its members with special additional protection." And this protection, which is known in law theory as so-called positive discrimination or positive protection. The positive protection recognised by the majority nation to national, ethnic, linguistic and other communities is expressed by the willingness of the State to promote and realize the rights of those communities as an integral part of the democratic development of the whole society and the country. The proposed law, however, directly abolishes and denies the readiness of the majority people or legislator. The proposed law does not follow the basic acts of the Council of Europe concerning this issue, for example, the recommendation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on Roma in Europe, which discusses the cultural diversity and the importance of the delivery of Roma culture. Furthermore, it does not follow the recommendation on the legal situation of Roma in Europe, which provides, inter alia, that Roma in each Member State of the Council of Europe must be treated as a minority or an ethnic community and thus guaranteed to them the rights they belong to. This proposed law does not follow the other two core instruments of the Council of Europe, namely the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages and the Council of Europe Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities. The consideration of the bill does not contribute to the regulation and improvement of the situation of the Roma community in Slovenia. Moreover, it wants to legislate something that is contrary to the Constitution and is also contrary to the standards of human rights protection in Europe, so the LDS Group cannot and will not support such a proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government Office. The Group of Social Democrats of the proposed law cannot support it. And we are pleased to note that the Legislative-Legal Service of the National Assembly is in very. The very dense and very weighed text gave the fundamental reasons why this law could not be supported. We also believe that the Government's position has been in depth and sufficiently precise in everything that has already been done with regard to regulating the situation of the Roma community and what they intend to do, and the Government does not support this proposal. We believe that this is one of the moments in which the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Government, the home working body and our parliamentary group is fully consistent. The proposal for a law on the Roma community is an example of a legislative text for our parliamentary group, which achieves the opposite effects of the announced ones, because the adoption of a law in such a form would in fact constitute the repeal of Article 65 of the Constitution, not the final regulation of the Roma issue, as announced by the proponents. Therefore, we regret that it is even the subject of a hearing at a meeting of the National Assembly. Article 65 of the Constitution speaks of specific rights for the Roma community. It does not even name or specify these specific rights. Therefore, in the past, two views have already been drawn on the regulation of the Roma theme: whether these special rights can be regulated in one law or governed by eleven laws rather than nine, as the proponents state. We have agreed by the Social Democrats that the doctrine of Article 65 is such that it also allows for understanding that special rights can be regulated in several laws. More importantly, it seems to the Social Democrats that these rights are set so that the Roma community can actually exercise them. As the applicants say about these things, they do not seem to be interested in the actual exercise of special rights and that they do not understand the concept of positive discrimination. This has provided protection for ethnic communities and other minority communities, which are weaker social groups, with a comparable position to that of a majority. That's why the law has to provide her with special protection. However, no specific rights are laid down in this law, I repeat. Once again, with special rights, the drafter returns to Article 14 of the Constitution and refers only to the fact that we are all the same before the law. Citizens and citizens of Slovenia, it is understood that under Article 14 of the Constitution we are all equal before the law, but, as we say, ethnic communities and the Roma ethnic community, article 65 also guarantees special rights. In the Socialist Group of Members, we expect the Government's Proposal for a Law on the Roma Community to settle this issue until the place, even in agreement with those most affected by this law, this is with the members of the Roma community themselves. We believe, however, that all solutions are acceptable to us, which enable the Roma community to integrate, not assimilate, into our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, government representative, MPs and MPs! We will not support the proposed law on the Roma Community, which was introduced into the procedure by the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, in Novi Slovenija. With its three articles, even though the number is not a criterion for quality, there is nothing to resolve the Roma issue, not the status, not the situation, nor the situation in which Roma and other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia live. The Roma Community of Slovenia is dealt with in sectoral legislation. The 11 laws mention the Roma community and its specific rights, while at the same time it must be said that all Slovenian legislation applies to all citizens, including members of the Roma community, and yet we know that the situation at this time is not satisfactory in both education, employment, living conditions and ultimately relations between them and other citizens. In the Republic of Slovenia, there are still certain Roma groups living in an enviable position, as far as housing and other conditions are concerned, while other people living around them are concerned. We are aware that many Roma are not interested in education, employment, compliance with regulations, standards, property and more. We will therefore support the Government's proposal for a law regulating the situation and specific rights of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia, the responsibility of state authorities and local authorities for their implementation and the organisation of the Roma community to exercise their rights and duties. So the law, which will set the framework for providing conditions for the placement of Roma settlements in space, their organisation at local and national level, the framework for education and employment. This is the basis for social inclusion. Since the proposed law does not solve the problem in any way, except that the applicants today have received their five-minute deadlines twice, we will not support the proposal. Unfortunately, the situation in Irslin, the Children’s Village, and elsewhere can not be solved in such a way and in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I don't think the Roma issue in the National Assembly is going to get us into trouble. There's been enough tension in the field. The fact is, however, that the Roma problem must be addressed in accordance with the Constitution by appropriate legislation, while it is undoubtedly necessary for the Roma community and the Roma themselves to demand respect for their citizenship obligations and not just to determine their specific rights. Open questions on Roma issues need to be addressed in a comprehensive manner. The proposal for a law that we are considering under which Mr Zmago Jelinčič is the first to sign is, of course, far from addressing open issues. It's actually in conflict with itself. Under the Constitution, it summarises special rights and then these special rights are equal to those of any other citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. And it's all in a single middle article. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we find it difficult to believe that this would be the purpose of the founder when the Slovenian Constitution is adopted. We will not support the law in the SLS Group. We are aware that the Roma issue is a sensitive issue that can only be used for political purposes. That's absolutely unacceptable. In particular, the Roma issue becomes sensitive at the latest events concerning the Romani family Strojan. This particular issue is, of course, not the substance of the law under consideration, but directly related to it. This particular matter has created a tense atmosphere in the public eye and has warned of a longstanding problem. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the right way to solve the complications related to members of the Strojan family is in the real provision of state and municipal authorities, that the laws will apply equally to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We believe that it is a feeling that this is not the case, surely one of the reasons for the strong response of locals in many environments. If we do not want impatient reactions, we must ensure equal treatment for all citizens. In doing so, we also express our conviction that we have never been Slovenians, and we are not an impatient nation today. It must be made very clear that Roma in some parts of Slovenia are not ready to accept the Strojan honey family. So we cannot talk about intolerance towards the Roma in general, but a concrete case needs to be seen as a particular issue and not as an intolerance to the Roma in general. However, all of this has nothing to do with the Law on the Roma Community, which should regulate the specific rights of the Roma community in Slovenia under the Constitution. And not individual members of this community as citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the proposed law is totally inappropriate, including legal voids, is legally inconsistent with the rest of Slovenian legislation, in short, inappropriate for further consideration. Especially inappropriate is the politicisation of the problem, which is also linked to the distress of individuals, especially children, who are not completely at fault for all events themselves. The law should have provisions to highlight the legal regime that would exceed the declaration recognition of the specific rights of the Roma community and replace them with the specific rights and entitlements of the Roma community and its members. In environments where the Roma community coexists with the majority population, there are their specific cultures, linguistic characteristics of the enhancements for life in the local environment. The example of good practice in Prekmurje in particular shows that this problem is also a solution. All of this does not mean that members of the Roma community should have any privileges in areas where they are equal under the Constitution to all other citizens. The law is already established for these areas, law enforcement authorities and all procedures for these cases. Therefore, it is the duty of the State to regulate, in particular, the employment and living opportunities for members of the Roma community, to enable them, as other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure social security themselves and to support their family members through their work. However, not by activities that burden the natural environment or even endanger the population. As required by entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers, members of the Roma community engaged in any activity must also comply with the rules, environmental protection and activity. Above all, it is necessary to make an ugly statement, with beautiful or ugly provision of education for Roma children. This, in our view, is the only right way, for knowledge and education are expanding horizons and opening up new opportunities. The proposed law, as it is said, will not be supported in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Well, we have heard some nonsense in these debates, especially about positive discrimination. And a colleague from the Social Democrats could know who knows and when he knows Slovenian, that the difference between saying that in Slovenia we have the same rights or, as stated in Article 14, in Slovenia, everyone is guaranteed the same human rights and so on. However, this interferes with that segment, which some, although having certain names, do not understand. But there are a few things we can say about positive discrimination. Let us see a case of positive discrimination, as a Slovenian citizen in Prekmurje received a job two days ago, but she had to switch from a normal Slovenian citizen to a gypsy woman. Only when she got the press, if she was a gypsy, did she get the job, would she lose her job. It was also on TV that no one would say anything. And when we talk about gypsies, here's an interview with Dr. Buchar, who is also a writer or author of the Slovenian Constitution and says that when a journalist asks him, "You call them gypsies, don't you?" "Sure, because that's the real name, because the Gypsies are Romi and Sinti." The latest complications are not at all about them, but about the question of the state, the state has rescinded and will again cancel. It will cancel because it will allow some to do what normal citizens do not. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not want anyone to have more rights, but we all have the same rights. This is the only fair thing to say to some "transmitters" of the various articles of the Constitution, which Mr Mozetič did to a great extent because he had to do so. And don't pretend there won't be any trouble with the gypsies. Of course, they will be, even bigger, and if we give them the rights they require, or as government law stipulates, things will get very complicated. And even when a colleague, who is not in the hall anymore, spoke about how Europe treats gypsies. Very different, one as gypsies, very rare as Roma, but no one treats them as a minority, but only as an ethnic group. It is interesting that the Roman Catholic Church also has a report for Gypsies and not a report for the Roma, but I think that in the Roman Catholic Church they are the most pedantic about these matters and these distinctions. But in our country, some liberal "communisers" of course demanded that they give someone rights so that they could take them away from someone else. So they could be locked up and shot, and then we give the gypsies more, and we can brag. It is also interesting how we view these strange rights that we have. I don't know if you know. Although I have transmitted to the media documents or leaflets distributed by the police in Dolenjska to gypsies in one of the gypsy languages, not to be thrown at by a firecracker, such things, in short, three different leaflets. We even went so far that 500 people went to the country to make special flyers for them. Please! But if we look at the data on how many people go to school, we see that no one actually wants to go to school. They don't want to go to school because they don't care about school. They don't care about jobs either. The statistics are horrifying. And despite the fact that our Nationality Office has had data only since 2002, it's embarrassing, but it's already showing that there's a huge increase in the number. In 2002, 3,246 people were identified as members of the Roma community, 6,264 already in 2003 - in one year a 100% increase! Of course, because they get that kind of money directly in their pocket, while Slovenian citizens have to work and adhere to laws. Otherwise, this debate is very good. And I think that people in Slovenia will see who is fighting for equality and who is for those people who work and respect laws, and who is for those who support laziness, thievery, paedophilia, theft and similar things. I think it'll be perfectly clear what it is and what it isn't. Finally, when the next opera performance is in the renovated opera house, when the Gypsy Baron is again playing, I invite you to go watch the opera. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary group of this law is certainly not going to support it. This law, if adopted, eliminates the specific rights of the Roma community which are already established in individual laws. This law does not allow for the determination of those rights that are still necessary in order to address this issue. The Group supports not only the principle of equal rights of citizens, which applies to all, including minorities and specific groups of people, but also agrees with the principle of the exercise and exercise of specific rights of both national minorities, which I do not deny, for example, the right to double voting, as well as specific groups, among them Roma groups. This proposal, of course, does not allow this principle to be implemented and is therefore unacceptable to us. However, it is particularly difficult that the proponent of an individual deviant action or the fallout of individual members of the Roma group applies in every way in such a way that it offends certainly those who have kindly integrated themselves into our environment and live in good relations in an environment where they are, as well as all children who are not physically capable of such acts as the applicant is talking about. We believe that this reading of the proposal is unfair, unacceptable and further indicates that the law is not worthy of support, but at least of our parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice to meet you, Mr. Director. Since I am personally interested in minority issues, the issue of the Roma communities will also be discussed at this point in the agenda. I agree with the proposaler that the problem of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia needs to be addressed in a meaningful and uniform manner, but there are positive examples in Slovenia regarding the coexistence of the Roma and the majority people. And these positive cases need to be incorporated into the law. Nor should we envy and say that positive discrimination is criminal. No, no, no. Nationality, which is in a minority and is still in danger, cannot recognize enough rights to be equal with the majority nation. In one country, in one group, the majority nation is never in danger, but nationality is always in danger. That's the way it is with Rommie. Speaking of positive cases, here I was thinking of Prekmurje, where they live very well with the majority people. Especially children in school receive such education, are on the way to being equal citizens. Then they will be equal citizens if they live in houses, if they have a job, if they have money, and if they do not have to wait for social assistance. This is the task of the majority people to lead them to this. And it's not true they don't want to work, but we're worse off with jobs right now. They always end up getting a job. That's true. Given that, in the opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration because it opposes the ratified international acts which bind the Republic of Slovenia and because the proposal for a law is already under consideration, I will also not support the bill under consideration. But I expect that we will get a comprehensive law on the parliamentary bench as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the Law on the Roma Community, as proposed by the Group of Members with the first-signed Yelinčič Trimenites. We believe that the solution to such a problem is thus inappropriate and unacceptable. The Law on the Roma Community, which contains all three articles, does not follow the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, does not follow the principles laid down in the Constitution, nor does it follow the principles of international legal instruments, of which the Republic of Slovenia is also a signatory. The legal basis for regulating the situation of the Roma community is Article 65 of the Constitution, which provides that the situation and special rights of the Roma community living in Slovenia are governed by law. In addition to the general rights applicable to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the Roma community, as a special ethnic community with its culture, language, way of life, must also ensure the so-called special rights as well as the principle of positive discrimination, which is not limited to the principle of equality. The Roma community, as a minority community, must and can retain its ethnic characteristics only by granting it special rights, which in our opinion should also be written down together with the duties that Roma should exercise, as should the majority of the population. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance and sensitivity of the issue that we are dealing with, even in the light of the events we have witnessed in recent months. We are aware that this area needs to be regulated, which we cannot achieve without the gradual and reliable integration of Roma into the social environment to which they belong. We are also aware that the problem of co-existence between the majority population and Roma is great and calls for a more appropriate legal basis to regulate this area. Which is certainly not the law that we are considering here today. There is also a need for more attention to be paid to the education and education area, because only education and a changed system of values, where I do not mean to interfere with their culture, which needs to be preserved, can contribute to greater socialisation of the Roma and, consequently, to reducing the differences between the majority and the Roma population. The law prepared by the Slovenian National Party will not be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Office of Nationality has drafted a law that deals fully with the Roma issue. None of the 25 Member States of the European Union has yet settled this area. This is regulated by special law within the framework of the Constitution in sectoral laws, in the common minority law or in individual specific projects. Slovenia, like the first member of the European Union, will address this issue within a specific law, which is certainly commendable and can be an example to other countries. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support this Law on the Roma Community, of course, the law of the Slovenian National Party, because it neither regulates nor solves the problems of the Roma community nor does it contribute to improving its situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm moving to the last point at nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Research and Development. Short-term. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Dr. Slavko Gabr. With regard to this law, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of Article 134, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor first to the representative of the proposers, who are unfortunately not in the Chamber. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We will support the draft law signed by Dr Slavko Gaber first in the Social Democrats Group, although we are not as co-proposals of the entire parliamentary group. The R & D Act, which entered into force at the end of 2002, sets out the principles and objectives and regulates the implementation of the R & D policy, financed by the State budget and other resources. It also lays down the organisation of research and development activities and the conditions for carrying out this activity. The law was amended in 2005. The most important and essential article for the proposers of this law, in which it has been amended, is the provision on the composition of the boards of the research institutes. We consider that the structure of the administrative committees of public research institutions, as before the amendment of the law, is appropriate. It was a tripartite composition in which both the founder’s representatives and the operators of the programmes and programme contracting authorities were equally represented. Although we recently adopted this law in the National Assembly, which was defended by the coalition to the full because it said that it was right that the body of the school’s world was named there, made up of three parties, the position of this coalition law and also of the government was repulsive. If the Government's efforts should be as close as possible to cooperation and integration as possible between the scientific sphere, the research sphere and the economy, then it is completely incomprehensible for the proposers of this amendment to the law why our proposal is opposed by the Ombudsman. Because it excludes those who are also involved as users in the functioning of research institutes from the management or management board. Therefore, we believe that the regulation so far, which was introduced by the 2002 law, could not prove to be inadequate and was quickly replaced by an increased share or an increased representation of the founder. For public research institutions, we believe that public interest must be protected in the first place, that they are financed from public funds and that the tripartite composition of the boards of directors would be best represented by this public interest. That is to say, it does not endorsing our position with the opinions of many researchers who have supported our proposal by letter and their signatures, as well as the academic sphere. The Social Democrats will support the proposal of the law and thus oppose the position of the mother's working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Nice to meet you again. Slovenia's goal is to become a modern and competitive society in all its segments. Investment in the development of own knowledge, together with the implementation of available foreign knowledge, plays a key role in this. Research activities that include many research and development institutes play a key role in this. Research work must not only be its purpose, which has happened many times in the past, but must actively cooperate with the economy and take care of the comprehensive development of our society. The aim of the law, proposed by Dr Slavko Gaber as the first signatory, is to change the ratio of the number of members in the Administrative Committee of the Public Research and Public Infrastructure Institute, namely to establish the situation that was before, or the last amendment was made in 2005. In Novi Slovenije we have already advocated the view that the Government, which is the founder and also the majority of the funding of public research and public infrastructure institutions, must have a review of the functioning of institutions. This does not mean that the Government is interfering with the autonomy of public research institutions, as each institution has an expert council dealing with the issue of scientific and professional work. It shall decide on the professional issues within the framework of the powers, prepare the professional basis for the work programmes and the development of the public institution, give the Management Board and the Director an opinion and proposals on the organisation of the work and the conditions for the development of the activities and perform the other tasks defined in the individual acts. In particular, the task of the Management Board shall be to adopt a work programme, financial plans, reports on the implementation of the work programme and other guidelines for the work of the Research or Infrastructure Institute. This is why it is all the more important for the government to cooperate to fulfil its responsibility and to lead research policy in line with the interests of the resolution on the national, research and development programme. The Government, as founder and majority financier, must also be concerned about the implementation of the principle of good economy and the representation of public interest, and in particular the transparency of the use of budgetary resources and the resources provided by the economy is important. In Novi Slovenija, we will support for the above reasons the decision of the parent committee that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the bill for the following reasons. The provisions of Article 33 of the Act adopted in 2005 are too early to define them as wrong and to change them now, since it is likely that in the future the current regulation in this area will prove to be the most optimal for the better and better functioning of public research institutions. Furthermore, we believe that the comparison between the composition of administrative committees, research institutions and the composition of councils under the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which has recently been adopted in the National Assembly, is unacceptable. In our view, it is not possible to compare the fair tripartite composition of the school councils because they are different institutions and need to be assessed according to the type of users, irrespective of the competences of the two authorities. In the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we have advocated and supported equal representation of parents for the world of schools because equal impact of parents on children's education must be made possible. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the Government must have the opportunity and must exercise proper control over the use and transparency of the flow of funds in public research institutions through its representatives in the Management Committee of the Institutions. For these reasons, we cannot adopt a proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. The fact is, in this mandate, the Government has come up with a number of loud proposals for laws or amendments to laws that have brought politically motivated leadership in key areas within the framework of the legislation. That I will not interfere with the culture, media, primary education, or very specifically with this change, or these changes are visible in higher education or in the field of scientific research. In 2002, the government changed the partnership set-up of the boards of directors of public institutes, where users, researchers and the state were equally represented, to the composition of the majority of the Government. Not only is it conflicted with any logic and also with the Government's claims, which, in the event of such changes, underlines the importance of autonomy, in particular research institutions, such an arrangement poses a danger of direct political involvement in the work of these institutions, into the very governing instrument of such an institution. Not only does the government decide on the directors of institutes, respected colleagues and colleagues, but the government is expected to decide even on the heads of individual departments according to the data we receive. Because the government on the boards of directors has a majority. When the government came with this change, there was no argument supported by evidence that equal or partner representation on committees was the one that restricts or prevents the development of science or research activities in our country. On the contrary, the profession justified the futility of this government work and warned against exactly such matters as had happened recently at the Pedagogical Institute. Why the government basically changed its original form, i.e. the form in which users had the same number of members and members on the board of directors as researchers and as the Government had them as the founder. Why, in fact, is the government still opposed to such an arrangement that we have had in our country before this government change? As it is not a matter of government law but of government regulation in the field of science, here I will also mention the admission to college. The Minister's explanation, as founder and majority funder of public institutions, for the implementation of the principle of good management and rational management through public funds invested in the activities of public institutions or public services must maintain a majority share - I stress, a majority share and control, this is a government strategy. Minister Zupan - but I am sorry that he is not with us today, but I believe that nothing would really change - I ask where in this dictatorship there is room to put his words "the universe is independent and independent". It is a public service or a public service. As the wind blows, so it is in the interpretations and explanations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In relation to the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy, consideration should be given to mechanisms for more intensive integration of users, economies and public research institutions or organisations, says the Minister. I ask whether the increased integration of users or the economy and public research organisations really means an increase or most of the state's representatives in the administrative bodies of such institutions. It is, respected colleagues, nothing more than a politicized merger that can smell fair in the background. Those who have established or funded the establishment have an insight, says Minister Zupan, and the boards of directors are to judge the business in real terms and then evaluate it. In fact, the Minister said everything with this sentence - he has insight, so he must also have a board of directors. Therefore, it must have an institution and slowly reach everything in government hands. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not hesitate to do this or such a policy, so we will also oppose the decision of the national working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to change the ratio of the number of members of the Management Committee of the Public Research and Public Infrastructure Institute appointed or elected by the founders, employees and users of public service. The proposed amendment sets out the new structure of the Management Board of the Public Service, consisting of three representatives: users, founders and employees. I think that this new form is closer to the independence of the institutions and that is why I will support the change. On this occasion, however, I cannot draw attention to the need for a comprehensive regulation of the science situation and not just a change in the number of members of the board of directors, since we have a large part of the brain in Prekmurje in the field of science. Being or going, our highly educated scientists say. And no one stays home because they can't stay because they don't have a chance to work and survive. Many scientific professions in the home are not allowed to do scientific research and are therefore leaving. For this reason, I propose that the National Assembly advocates the development of science and also its actions to support scientific and research work. I also ask the Government, in particular the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to examine the situation and act as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u166	Nice greetings, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr President-in-Office! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we cannot support the proposal for a law on research and development activities submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Slavka Gabro, since it is inappropriate to say after one year of validity that the composition of the administrative committees established by the law adopted in 2005 is not appropriate. The SDS Group will support the decision of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on research and development activities is not suitable for further discussion. We have before us a proposal to amend the law that the current transparent state of responsibility for the conduct of public research and infrastructure laws has returned to the previous state of affairs of 2002, which has proved to be inappropriate. We are facing the same propaganda as has been followed by all the changes made by the current Government in the management and conduct of certain parts of the economy. With these changes and these solutions, it has been said that they lead to decline, economic downturn, and, I don't know what else, but it turns out that such changes in the economy have been carried in the right direction and have been confirmed by enormous economic growth and the fulfilment of all the criteria for entry into the euro area, which Slovenia has done since 1 January of this year. The proposed amendment aims to change the relationship between members of the Management Committee of the Public Research Infrastructure Institute, who have been appointed or elected representatives by the founder, employees and service users. With the amendment of the law adopted in 2005, the relationship has changed in the way that the majority of the members of the founders' representatives and of the other members is equal to the number of representatives of employees and users of public service. This ensures that the founder, the majority financier of public institutions, also accepts the responsibility of transparent and rational public financial management. And I stress that in the Slovenian Democratic Party we agree that the aim of the Republic of Slovenia is to make Slovenia a knowledge-based society in line with the Lisbon objectives. And this is such an important goal for the Slovenian society and the Slovenian state and for future generations that there must be a responsibility in this area that the one who is the main funder must be able to decide and monitor the use of these funds and also to direct research activities. Let me stress that years ago, on the basis of the previous law and previous rules in research institutions and research activities, the director of the Institute, Jožef Štefan, in Parliament, has repeatedly stressed that under the then legislation, Slovenia is wooding the technological colony. And this situation has also had to be brought to an end in the area of marriage, and we firmly believe that the current changes bear fruit. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on research activities, whose proposer, as I have already mentioned, is Dr. Slavko Gaber, co-signatory who places the ratio of members in the administrative field to the 2002 state. Let me remind you that for such tripartite representation, we have already found, at the time of the adoption of the current applicable law, that such a system has not been put into practice. At that time, the coordination of research institutes indicated that the boards of directors were on a number of Slovenian public research institutes at this point in time, that is, at the end of 2005, structured according to the old ones, in accordance with the rules before 2002, because the previous Government of the founding acts of these institutions had not complied with the law in force, and, as has already been said, it had already been adopted in 2002. We believe that this is also evidence that the 2002 legal solution regarding the structure of the administrative committees of public research institutions and public infrastructure laws is impractical or inadequate. Let me conclude by stressing once again that the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will not support or vote in favour of this proposal that the law is not the appropriate basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Slavinec has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The LDS Group supports the amendment of the law on research and development activities as it foresees a more equal representation of the Government, users and performers in the world research institutions. Let us first recall that the Government amended this law in 2005, with the only amendment referring exactly to the composition of the boards of institutions. At the same time, this is the composition of the board of the institution - three users, three performers and three representatives of the state - itself proposed in the Education Act, where the Council of the Institute consists exactly as it now opposes this proposal for a new law. And the arguments by the Government justifying or arguing that education is something completely different than research activity have not convinced us in the LDS. Without a shadow of a doubt, we can argue that the existing composition of the boards of institutions certainly does not guarantee those objectives that the Government has set out in its explanatory statement, namely that the State, as the founder and the majority funder of public institutions, must, inter alia, maintain a majority share in the boards of directors. Let's ask ourselves why. There is a question in place about who and what research institutions should serve. To whom and to what should science and research serve? How are scientists supposed to explore? As expected by the State, or in accordance with scientific principles and principles? If public research institutes are still dedicated to science and not to the state, then of course the state should direct priorities, it can do so through calls and take care of the efficient work of research institutes rather than affect the composition and decision-making of research institutes. Therefore, this efficiency and priorities can be regulated by the State through calls for proposals. At the same time, it is not only possible to control business and wages, but it is even mandatory to carry out otherwise, especially for money coming from the country. In the LDS, we believe that the state must not decide and decide through the boards of directors who will investigate and how to investigate. We also believe that the Government is not called upon to set the directors of the institutions autonomously according to the criterion of political compatibility. We also believe that its will and command should not be reflected on even lower levels, in the heads of departments, which has already happened in many cases. We also often like to follow the EU countries, and that is also true, but we note that neither in five countries nor in five cases the ministry has been able to list, and the EU does not have similar arrangements. So we are presenting a certain unity in the EU. With all the above, we believe that there are no real reasons for the founder's predominance in the LDS. The Councils had previously acted better when the composition of the boards of institutes was partnered and equivalent between the three partners. And let's ask ourselves how we can expect the autonomy of the profession, the autonomy of science, if the government has politicized it directly and without a bad conscience. We will support the LDS in this new Law on Research and Development because of all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u169	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, at 2.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u170	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Before we go to the vote, I would like to inform you that you received on the bench a proposal from the head of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, Mr Jakob Preseknik, to amend the agenda for tomorrow's meeting of the assembly. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group proposes to amend the agenda on Friday, 2.2.2007 on agenda items 35 and 14 by first addressing agenda item 14. [[The ad in the hall.]] I have not given a single word, honourable Member and Member of Parliament. I would like to inform you that, under Article 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure, we have a vote to take in this case. And the decision will not be adopted if one third of the Members oppose it. However, I would like to inform you of the following. On the 35th item of the agenda, the representatives of the candidates, the President of the State, the candidate for a constitutional judge who must swear before the National Assembly at the time of election, if elected, are invited by the Council of Justice, and may therefore conclude that it would be somewhat awkward for the consideration of these two points to be replaced. That is why I will put this matter to the vote. Please, Mr. Zagorac, would you like? There's no debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u171	No, but I think I can explain my vote before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u172	No, you can't. You can't, but in this case you can't. I am putting to the vote a proposal to amend the agenda for the consideration of agenda items in order to first address item 14 before item 35. We're voting. There were 62 votes in favour and 34 in favour against 28. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. I hereby conclude this point, which subsequently came into the order of the continuation of the meeting of our assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the voting devices. Excuse me, I'll wait until there's order and peace in the hall! We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office, following an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 15. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure, an urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments were tabled in the second reading, no amendments could be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. In doing so, I inform you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 16. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - second reading of the bill on real estate of the country, the provinces and the municipalities. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 36. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac, you want. I am opening my application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for allowing me to do what the Rules of Procedure allow me to do. We will not support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party. We will not support it for reasons, as I have already stated in the debate on the amendment itself; and another fact has emerged, namely, on the proposal of one of my respected colleagues, that it would be sufficient to add to this amendment one word link, which would be called 'local community', this amendment would run into support, but you have not been able to do so in these two hours since we discussed this law. Which continues to strengthen my thinking that, after all, government Members want to injure the congregations in a fine way. When it comes to the amendment of the administrative units, I also listened to the minister explain how now everything is calm and restless, from now on the restless, I must say that it is not peaceful in all the congregations. Still, some would like to exercise this right, or duty, that is to be economical. And as long as we accept this amendment, you don't allow it. Force them into something that, with the amendment to the congregations, especially the smaller congregations, I am not talking about the larger ones, you are achieving that purpose cannot be realized. As you yourself have said, we want to bring people closer to the public administration, we want to bring people closer to them as quickly and as quality accessibility as possible, so the arguments I heard in the debate, unless the municipality gives the country something free of charge, and then there will be no public administration or administrative unit in this congregation. It seems to me that it is the task of the State to provide for every congregation, in each of you, or as you yourself have said, when we have dealt with one law, now that we are also implementing an Internet business with public administration, the public administration in every house, that it is the task of the State, not the municipalities, I think. But with such an amendment as is proposed, we prevent it and we cannot agree to such things in the Slovenian National Party, so we will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 12. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(against 12.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would suggest that the third hearing be held at the same meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 14. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law tomorrow, 2 February 2007, after the end of agenda 14. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of facilities at border crossings, the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of an urgent procedure. Since it is not possible to table amendments in the third reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Check-in is on. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have a law before us that tells us where and for what money we are supposed to put essentially the Schengen border, which is determined by some directives again in Europe. Since when has Slovenia solved border issues with Croatia, this is an interesting question. And on whose land this will be put, that is an even more interesting question. The proposal introduces a ban on land transport and bans on changing borders, existing parcels, and introduces certain procedures for Schengen standards. The main reason is that funds should be used by 31.12.2007. Dear National Assembly and distinguished representatives of the Government, please tell me how the border is regulated with Croatia and where these border points will take place, then we will vote in favour. Until this issue with Europe and within Europe with Croatia is resolved, we cannot give our consent to such a law. Europe is moving away from the fundamental problem of Slovenia, the foreign ministry has done nothing in this area, and we are in fact enacting a law on the establishment of the Schengen border. It's just embarrassing. And we are talking about how urgent this is if you are to be persecuted by Europe. The European Members have not once devoted debates within the European Parliament on this subject, and we are paying them dearly with our taxpayer money. The Slovenian national party will oppose this proposal and it is good for you to consider where we will put this border.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The application is being filed in his own name. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u179	I would like to say that I will oppose this law because this law, after the Government has not done enough for two years to solve the problems at the Schengen border, is now with some unacceptable way of dealing with the ownership rights of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I regret that we are adopting a fast-track law, as if there were emergencies or things at our southern border that would threaten the Republic of Slovenia. I think that this is primarily a threat to the project of building the Schengen border by incompetent ministers and state secretaries. And after the Government's three major European projects, so named, the restoration of the government palace, the reconstruction and construction of the congress-protocol centre in Brdo, and the construction of the new representative office of the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels, have been built by means of a violation of the Public Procurement Act, the Public Finance Act, it now proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a potentially constitutionally controversial interference with the ownership of citizens in order to do something that they have slept on for two years in the government. I'll say no myself and I won't support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u180	We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 38 votes to 19. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49, paragraph 1, of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 49(1) of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights shall not be adopted. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the procedure for examining this authentic interpretation has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 3rd item of the agenda - second reading of the proposal for a law on the Roma community. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision; the proposal for a law on the Roma community is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 3. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on research and development activities, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision; the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on research and development activities is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Mogue. Anyone in their own name? Check-in is on. Mr. Mogue, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since I worked in the National Assembly, I have always taken into account the professional and interested public. The President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukjati, received a letter entitled Call to the National Assembly, where he writes: Signed higher education and research workers and workers note that the Government and the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology have shown that they do not know the characteristics of scientific work, as well as the history of academic research institutions. The functioning of the Government in the case of the Pedagogical Institute proves that the current legislation allows for unqualified interference in the work of public scientific institutions and therefore damages the development of science in Slovenia. The incident also warns that persons who care about science in the Government are not qualified for these tasks. We call on the National Assembly to take appropriate action. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have introduced a law that will eliminate this anomaly, which has caused problems in several areas. We followed this call to the National Assembly with signed 60 Doctors of Science starting with Dr. Rastko Mornik and ending with Dr. Paulo Zupanc. I think it would be wise to listen, and it is this letter that has made me happy to vote for this marriage. That means I'm going to oppose the conclusion of my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 24. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Madrid Agreement amendments to the international registration of stamps. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. On the exploratory proposal of the Act on the Ratification of the Amendment to the Hague Agreement on the International Depository of Industrial Samples and Models of an Additional Act from Stockholm dated 14 April 2005 JULY 1967 The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we proceed, I note that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we move on to the 20th item of the agenda, I would like to ask you, honourable Members, for all these ratifications, the introductory part before the vote is exactly the same, there is no debate. So let me not read. Thank you. We're moving to 20. Period of the agenda - This is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to the Locarnik Arrangement on the establishment of an international classification for industrial specimens and models. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. All in favor. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Period of the agenda - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the amendments to any agreement on the international classification of products and services due to the registration of marks. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, all in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the Day - Defence Bill on Ratification of Amendments to the Danube Agreement on the International Classification of Figurative Elements Marks. We're voting. There are 60 Members present and all Members are in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Period of the day - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of Deposits of Microorganisms for the Patent Procedure. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, all in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this item on the agenda, as the law has been adopted. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of amendments to the Convention on the Establishment of a World Organisation for Intellectual Property. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, all in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Period of the day - this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the change of the Strasbourg agreement on international patent classification. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of Amendments to the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literature and Art. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of Amendments to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Ratification of Amendments to the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Patents. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. POINT OF THE DAY REGULATION - PROPOSAL OF A REGULATION ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION PREPARED ON THE BASIS OF ARTICLE K.3 OF THE TREATY ON THE EUROPEAN UNION, ON THE PROTECTION OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, THE PROTOCOL PREPARED ON THE BASIS OF ARTICLE K.3 OF THE TREATY ON THE EUROPEAN UNION, THE CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, THE PROTOCOL PREPARED ON THE BASIS OF ARTICLE K.3 OF THE TREATY ON THE REASON OF THE CONVENTION ON THE PROTECTION OF THE FINANCIAL INTERESTS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITY, WITH THE PREVIOUS DECISION OF THE COURT OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES AND THE OTHER PROTOCOL, PREPARED ON THE BASISED BY ARTICLE K.3 OF THE ACCIDIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION We're voting. 61 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Hungary on the cross-border police cooperation of criminal law enforcement agencies. We're voting. 60 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. On behalf of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council may decide to amend the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 59, against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. On the basis of Article K.3 of the Treaty on European Union, on extradition between the Member States of the European Union. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, all in favour. [[58 votes in favour.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - CONFIRMATION OF THE WORKING TEXTS OF THE LEGISLATION. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. Does anyone object to the approval of all official purified texts by one vote? We vote separately. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The text of the Act on the prescribed interest rate of late interest shall be officially clarified. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Law on the Rights of the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The text of the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment shall be officially revised. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 2. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law of certificates. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Act on the provision of social security for Slovenian citizens entitled to pensions from the former SFRJ republics is confirmed. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Law on Electronic Communications is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Act on the Elimination of the Consequences of Working with Asbestos is officially clarified. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Law on Inventions from the Working Relationship shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the Copyright and Related Rights Act shall be confirmed. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item, the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at nine o'clock.
