ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u1	Good day and good bye! I ask Members and Members to take their seats. We begin the continuation of the 28th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: colleague Anton Anderlič, Stanislav Brenčič, mag. Branko Grims, Jožef Jerovšek, Milan Petek, Davorin Terčon and Milenko Ziherl until 2 p.m. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Constitutional Court Act. We have 20 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Minister Lovr Šturm, to further explain the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Today you are considering one of the most important laws of law or constitutional state, namely, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court. The Slovenian Constitutional Court Act has a significant impact on the implementation of the Constitution and the rule of law and the functioning and protection of the rule of law, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. In addition, the Constitutional Court Act also provides an institutional, procedural way of protecting certain other highest values of Slovenia, such as free democratic society and sovereignty. I should point out in the introduction of the bill itself that the Law on the Constitutional Court now in force was adopted in 1994 and that that year was certainly a modern law, and it is still an essential part of it. Its adoption, less than three years after the 1991 Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, constituted an increase in the level of legal certainty, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the values of a free democratic society in Slovenia, which were thus further protected by the newly established powers of the Constitutional Court. However, legal and political developments in the Republic of Slovenia since 1994 have led to some new knowledge, both in theory and in scratch. Certain legal gaps have been identified in the law in force and, above all, the Constitutional Court has begun to become some kind of victim of its own success. For example, with a constant increase, cases before the Constitutional Court, in particular in the field of constitutional complaints, and constitutional complaints with slightly less important legal areas, belong to a large extent. If not, the overburden of the Constitutional Court causes delays in the resolution of all other cases, endangers the protection of the right to a trial within a reasonable period and thus indirectly threatens legal security, economic security and social security in the Republic of Slovenia. In the event of a systemic and permanent overload of the Constitutional Court, however, it is no longer able to carry out its constitutional tasks, the highest body for the protection of constitutionality and legality in the Republic of Slovenia, which should also protect constitutionality and legality in fact and not only on paper. The already mentioned overburden of the Constitutional Court requires a certain legislative functioning of the legislative body of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the provisions of the Constitutional Court Act should also be supplemented in some of its other parts by allowing for a greater level of legal certainty in general and by establishing clearer rules on the function of a judge of the Constitutional Court. For example, in the case where a Constitutional Court Judge is terminated, another Constitutional Judge has not been elected in due time. In view of certain other essential solutions contained in the proposal for a law, I should specifically point out that, in view of increasing the effectiveness of the Constitutional Court's decision, the draft law proposes certain restrictions on the submission of initiatives to assess the constitutionality of the rules directly applicable to them, one year after the entry into force of the sub-law or one year after the injury to a natural or legal person has occurred. It is also one of the most important changes in the law in force, in terms of the effectiveness of the Constitutional Court, including limiting the possibility of bringing constitutional complaints in so-called less important cases: disputes of small value under the Law on Justice, costs of procedure, disruption of property and offences. Of course, with the exception necessary for the benefit of the complainants in particularly justified cases, the Constitutional Court will still be able to decide on the constitutional appeal. The draft law also deals in detail with the question of the temporary extension of the term of office of a judge of the Constitutional Court, which is only a legal specification of the provisions of Article 165(2) of the Constitution, in cases where a new judge or a judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected in time. The drawback system is introduced, as is usually the case in certain international organisations or in international courts, and will only be implemented by the Constitutional Court, so that, in legal cases, it will be determined in the most objective manner by drawing lots which of the judges of the Constitutional Court will continue to serve because the new judge of the Constitutional Court has not been elected in the National Assembly. There is also an urgent guarantee of the legality and transparency of this procedure, some kind of external control will be exercised by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia as the highest official of the legislative branch of the Republic of Slovenia. This will also safeguard the relationship between the branches of government. All relevant amendments to the Constitutional Court Act should, in particular, help the Constitutional Court to abolish, by the end of 2008, the majority of the current backlogs in its work resulting from the excessive increase in cases before the Constitutional Court, as more and more people and legal persons have been turning to it from year to year. I believe that all branches of government in the Republic of Slovenia are a common ideal or effort to protect and develop the rule of law and to safeguard constitutionality and legality, and we must work together to ensure, even in the field of the functioning or competence of the Constitutional Court, the best possible legal arrangement in accordance with both the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the need to ensure the effective functioning of the Constitutional Court. It is also important that we allow the effective functioning of the Constitutional Court also in terms of the benefit of legal and natural persons who would refer to it, since the end of the Constitution has also been created to define or re-record certain rights and freedoms and to people and legal persons, in the event of violations, to enable them to obtain effective or effective protection from the highest constitutional forum, which is the Constitutional Court. Finally, I should point out that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will, after the conclusion of the second reading of the draft law, propose a specific harmonisation amendment of a mainly technical nature, which will refer to the 30th article of the draft law, which has been amended in the course of consideration on the home working body. It will be necessary to correct the introductory wording of Article 30, which must apply to three articles and not to two articles, and a certain misrepresentation in Article 55, paragraph 2, of the draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Ms Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to submit and present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman. A warm welcome to the Minister, to the Ministry, to the fellow Member, to the fellow Members! At its 33rd meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Constitutional Court. The representative of the applicant introduced a complementary explanation for the amendments to the law, stressing in particular that the specific proposal of the law is one of the most important laws of the rule of law or of the constitutional state, since it has an important impact on the question of constitutionality and legality and also on the functioning and protection of the rule of law, while also respecting human rights. Then he introduced the celias and the changes to the law. A representative of the Constitutional Court also took part in the meeting of the Committee, namely, the President of the Constitutional Court, Janez Čebulj, who agreed with the statements of the representative of the proposer and said that the Constitutional Court agreed with the proposal of the law, but that it might not be substantively representative of what the Constitutional Court had been working on at the time of its preparation. At that time, the Constitutional Court sought to safeguard access to the Constitutional Court with regard to the possibility of bringing constitutional complaints, in particular in those cases which could be characterized as less important legal issues or less significant human rights infringements. He said that the novelty made it possible to introduce standards into a constitutional judgment, in a constitutional judgment that would allow the selection of constitutional complaints to be carried out, which would certainly help to reduce their number to the extent of truly important precedental cases. Individual views were presented by the Legislative and Legal Service, mainly with regard to Articles 13, 14 and 16. A representative of the Council of State also participated in the meeting, which said that the Council of State fully supported the proposal of the law, and they also felt that it would certainly help to speed up the functioning of the Constitutional Court and that the reduction belonged to cases. In particular, the discussion of the members and members of the Committee highlighted whether the draft law also took into account Protocol 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which provides for the possibility of initiating appropriate proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights when all resources are exhausted under the domestic legal order. The representatives of the applicant replied and explained that the said Protocol, which had not yet entered into force, had already been discussed in the drafting phase of the draft law, in particular in the light of the amendment of Article 35 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which restricted access to the European Court of Human Rights. In this respect, it was necessary to find an appropriate comparable Slovenian standard which would restrict access to the Constitutional Court in the field of constitutional appeal. This relates to the content of an important constitutional and legal issue that goes beyond the meaning of a particular matter. Individual amendments were adopted and the law was adopted as a whole at the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u5	Thank you very much. At its 26th meeting, the National Assembly held its first reading of the proposed law and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. However, since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss individual articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the bill tomorrow, Wednesday, 29 May, under the item. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Minister for giving an opinion on this point. And we're going to 11. Agenda items - On the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Complements of the Law on Righteous Procedure. The hearing was conducted following a reduced procedure and we have 1 hour and 37 minutes of time scheduled for consideration. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and I would like to reiterate my word to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly. The basic objective of the bill being examined today by the National Assembly is to inform the justice process in the broadest sense by introducing electronic commerce. This informationisation includes not only electronic decisions, electronic applications, electronic service, but also the possibility of electronic viewing the situation of applications in a fair process. The bill seeks to increase the effectiveness of the functioning of the civil court and enable the full implementation of the already introduced informationisation of the enforcement procedure. In this, i.e. in the enforcement procedure, the law on judicial procedure, which now does not have the relevant provisions on electronic commerce, is applied subsidiaryly. It shall therefore apply to all enforcement matters. In doing so, the proposed amendments are without prejudice to the very concept of fair procedure. The proposed regulation of the electronic justice procedure is partly based on the regulation of the electronic administrative procedure laid down in the General Administrative Procedure Act, with certain characteristics resulting from different operations and from the independence of the judiciary compared to the State administration. The proposed amendments can be divided into four sets: electronic applications, electronic service, electronic commerce, including electronic decisions and the possibility of electronic examination into the state of applications. In the case of electronic submission of applications by electronic means, signature with a secure electronic signature certified by a qualified certificate shall be provided as the basic identification of the parties. The exemption from the said method of signing would apply only to those applications for which the Minister of Justice would consider that they do not require such a high level of identification of applicants. In this case, I would also determine how the parties are identified. Investment by electronic means would be carried out through an information system established by the Centre for Informatics at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This information system would be similar to the single information system for the acceptance of applications, service and information already established by the Ministry of Public Administration for administrative procedures. Since the time when the application would be submitted to the court would be counted at the moment when the information system receives its role, the information system would automatically confirm the applicant's acceptance of the application. Since the filing of applications by electronic means can only work fully if the law provides for an exception to the lodging of applications and annexes in as many copies as are necessary for the court and the counterparty, i.e. the current arrangement, it is proposed that the appropriate number of copies be made by the court which receives the application. In the case of electronic service, it is proposed that electronic service should be legally equivalent to classical service if it were carried out by means of an information system on a secure electronic route through an organisation carrying out an electronic service activity. The information system would automatically send to the addressee in his safe mailbox a letter that the addressee should take over within 15 days. The address book would take over from the information system by using a qualified certificate for a secure electronic signature to prove its identity, have a view of writing in a secure mailbox and electronically sign the service. The service would be performed on the day the addressee took over the writing. If he had not taken over the writing within 15 days, the service would have been valid for the day on which the information system automatically sent the address in his safe mailbox. The manner of electronic service described would be considered normal and personal service. Electronic service could also be considered for those acts of a court having originals in physical form if the electronic document produced on the basis of a physical original was equipped with a secure electronic signature of a court certified with a qualified certificate. The Court could only serve an act to the party in the manner described if the party informed the court that it wished to be served electronically. The service would take place at the address of the safe mailbox address to which the addressee is accessing a qualified digital certificate. This address would be equivalent to the address of his place of residence. If the customer had sent the writing along a secure electronic route, it would have been counted until it had communicated otherwise that it wanted the service in the same way, i.e. by means of a secure electronic route. However, compulsory electronic service would apply to the service of public authorities, lawyers, notaries, executors, judicial experts, evaluators and interpreters to bankruptcy managers [[End warning sign]] and other persons or bodies where, on the basis of their nature, their work may be presumed to be more reliable. Since electronic service compared to the classic mode of service [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u7	Mr. Secretary, it's your time!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u8	the customer is not disturbed or is not disturbed by this service by the party's privacy, it is proposed for the time in which the electronic service is provided, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u9	Mr. Secretary, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u10	is not limited in time. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u11	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u12	Thanks again. A nice greeting to the visitors as well! The Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on judicial procedure at its regular 33rd meeting. The representative of the applicant, the Secretary of State, gave an introductory explanation of the extensive additional explanation in which he said that the bill introduces information into the judicial process in the broadest sense, e-commerce involving such electronic decisions, electronic applications, electronic service, the possibility of electronic examination into the state of applications. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, who said that the written comments of this service were mainly taken into account in the amendments tabled and later in the amendments tabled by the Committee, which were also adopted by the Committee at the end. In particular, paragraphs 10 and 13 of the draft law were exposed. As it is said, individual amendments were adopted at the meeting of the committee, and at the end all the articles of the law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u13	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will give his position to the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! The proposal for a novel to inform the justice process brings so-called revolutionary change in court working techniques in civil proceedings, which will certainly be very welcome, both for justice officials and for the parties to judicial proceedings. With the introduction of electronic commerce in the broadest sense, spending time on a fair trial party and even more on a court will be reduced to a large extent, meaning that individual courts will be burdened with unnecessary red tape and will be able to devote more attention to substantive work. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions will also make a significant contribution to the implementation of the Lukend project, which, as one of the measures to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, has also foreseen the full informationisation of the courts. Otherwise, the introduction of information technology in a fair process was established by the amendment of the law five years ago and the conditions of use were laid down by the Law on Electronic Business and Electronic Signature. The first steps to inform the courts were already taken in the Land Book, further in the enforcement process, but the information in the enforcement procedure cannot be fully implemented without appropriate amendments to the Law on the Judicial Procedure, which is applied by means of a subsidiary procedure. The legal basis in force alone, but not sufficient basis for the real possibilities for the introduction of complete e-commerce, is not sufficient and support is also needed from this point of view. The modernisation of the judicial technique by informing is proposed in four sets: electronic commerce, electronic decisions, electronic deposit of applications and electronic service. The last two sets relate more to the parties to a fair procedure, which will thus be facilitated by the principle of 'all in one place' in order to carry out cases relating to one business or life event, which means using an electronic route to save time and money, by sending fair acts by electronic means, therefore, travel costs are also reduced. However, the problem with what has been demonstrated by the practice that the range of electronic services used so far is worse where they are already possible in electronic administration. In addition to not using the Internet and not knowing the possibilities of electronic administration, there are reasons for not using the administrative parties in particular in order to regulate administrative matters in a classical way. Following the amendment, it will still be possible to submit applications in a fair proceeding in a physical form, i.e. in a classical paper form, and it will also be served by the customer by electronic mail only if the party informs the court that it wishes such service, except for those national authorities and persons for whom compulsory electronic service is provided. According to the applicant's assurances, the resources necessary to establish the infrastructure are fully provided in the budget line of the Supreme Court, so that the proposal does not have financial implications for other public funds. However, there will be a need to establish uniform policy solutions for investment and service in accordance with the proposed amendment to the law. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Judicial Procedure Act, including the amendments already adopted and proposed, which are prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the Legislative and Legal Service, because we believe that informing our judiciary, which is far behind for Europe, is essential, as the proposed amendments significantly reduce red tape, remove administrative obstacles and create more user-friendly and faster communication with the judiciary, makes it possible to take the procedure through the information system, but will certainly create more favourable conditions for the efficient and substantive work of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with his associates, a respected council! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support all substantive changes and additions to existing legislation aimed at remedying shortcomings in practice, particularly changes and additions aimed at improving the efficiency and modernisation of the judicial system. The introduction of electronic commerce can also contribute significantly to increasing the efficiency of the judiciary due to modern information and communication technologies today. These effects have already been demonstrated to a large extent by the introduction of an electronic land book with the introduction of electronic records, as well as in the field of court operations and the introduction of electronic commerce in a fair process. The proposed amendment to the Judicial Procedure Act, which was adopted in 1999 and has already been amended twice, also implements the Lukenda programme, which, as one of the important measures to increase the effectiveness of the judiciary, has also provided for the full informationisation of the courts, allowing for the full implementation of the already introduced informationisation of the enforcement procedure. The right step in this direction has already been taken by the adoption of the Enforcement and Insurance Act, which has informed the enforcement process, which cannot be fully implemented without appropriate amendments to the Judicial Procedure Act, in the direction of adaptation to electronic commerce. The proposed amendment of the law therefore does not affect the concept of fair procedure itself, but merely introduces electronic commerce into the judicial process, which practically means that the parties will be able to file complaints and other documents by e-mail. Under certain conditions, courts with customers will also be able to communicate electronically, e-files will be maintained, and customers will also be able to monitor the procedure electronically and to review and copy files. This will significantly shorten time for the parties and the courts. It should be noted that the provisions of the law explicitly determine the equivalence of written and electronic form and its proven value. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support, inter alia, the reduced procedure for the adoption of this amendment, as the material was published on the proposer's website before the legislative process began and NGOs and representatives of the public concerned were included in the debate. The comments received were taken into account to the fullest extent, as provided by the applicant. That the process of substantive coordination and complementarity has been properly, professionally and transparently established, the most extensive support for the adoption of the novel on the home working body is also demonstrated. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, primarily on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, proposes to adopt three amendments to three provisions, allowing the parties to enforce infringements of the rules of sound recording in the procedure with legal means, the amendment would also introduce the conditions to be met by persons to perform the service, and would also establish a period of service on the basis of the Minister's special authorisation, until it is provided for service by legal and natural persons selected in the procurement procedure under the law governing public procurement. In our Group of Members, we are aware that before and for the application of the proposed amendments and the addition of the proposed law, it will be necessary to adapt and finalize the programming solutions, adaptations and upgrades, which will also require financial resources, which are already provided in the budget. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will certainly support the proposed amendment of the law and the proposed three amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be given by Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u18	Thank you. With Novi Slovenija and our Group of Members, we have also supported some amendments to other laws that have indicated the facilitation and change of civil procedures. Last year's amendment to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance indicated the direction of changes in the course of civil proceedings, and the first step of business information was also taken. According to the New Slovenia Group, the proposal for amendments to the law on fair procedure is still a step further - it introduces, in addition to the implementation of the already introduced informationisation of the enforcement procedure, the possibility of electronic investment in applications, electronic service, electronic commerce and a view to the status of applications. It is reasonable that the party will be able to submit complaints, answers to complaints, remedies and other statements, proposals and messages electronically, of course equipped with a secure electronic signature and certified with a qualified certificate. The system will establish an Information Technology Centre at the Supreme Court and will work in a similar manner to the system of administrative procedure established by the Ministry of Public Administration. More precisely, it will have to be determined by means of a sub-legislative regulation, when individual applications can be submitted by telephone or by electronic means without a secure electronic signature. The welcome news, according to the New Slovenia Group, is also that the President of the Senate will be able to order a sound and graphic recording of the claim, of which he will, of course, have to inform the parties and other participants. A copy of the audio recording may be made at the request or costs of the party or a legal remedy may be lodged against the decision by which the proceedings are concluded. Despite some of the concerns expressed, we are convinced that a mere sonic copy of the claim can solve a number of complexities and disputes between the parties to the procedure. The law also seeks to make electronic service as similar as possible to classical service. While the party must report to the Court that it wants the service by electronic means, if it itself sends the application on such a route, it is considered that it also wants to be served by electronic means. However, for some entities that are more likely to cooperate with the court, electronic service is mandatory, for state authorities, lawyers, notaries, enforcers, judicial experts. It is precisely because of the nature of their work that they can be expected and expected to be more careful, and this is also true in the business between the courts themselves. In Nova Slovenija we estimate that there will also be a welcome innovation when customers have the opportunity to review the file in the information system, if it is in electronic form, and in particular that monitoring of the procedure in the information system is also possible. In our parliamentary group, we expect that the proposed changes in the fair procedure will facilitate the business of those parties who are skilled in electronic communications, but this will certainly be an incentive to obtain a new user of such communications more, so we will support the law and amendments in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u20	Dear President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished young listeners at the gallery! The Law of Justice refers to the use of information technology in a fair process. It is therefore another in a series of changes in line with the Lukenda programme to reduce judicial backlogs in our courts. This programme also provides, inter alia, for the full informing of the courts, which is intended to contribute to a more effective part of the judiciary. Of course, we support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. There was no debate on the Committee on Internal Policy at the time of the consideration of the novel. This is evidenced by the consensus between Members that the use of modern electronic channels also makes the work of the judiciary more effective. The novel itself brings solutions in the field of deposit, service, electronic court operations and electronic examination of the status of applications. In order to submit applications, the law provides for the signing of applications with a secure electronic signature certified with a qualified certificate. In doing so, it seems important to us that the competent minister can determine individual applications where such a high level of security is not necessary. This will certainly ensure additional efficiency in less important actions in the justice process. At the time of consideration of this law, we would like to draw particular attention to the provision of security in electronic commerce. We believe that sufficient attention is being paid to it, as judicial proceedings may involve very sensitive information which, of course, might interest a lot of people. The protection of electronic commerce and related confidentiality will also need to be given full attention in the future. As we say, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u21	Thank you, too. And colleague Boštjan Zagorac will give the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable guests! I'm not going to repeat what marriage does. In any case, computerisation and computerisation is also a government or e-government, if you want, a step forward and we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party. However, everything cannot be computerised. It'll be easy to do what they said, at least my old dad wouldn't put himself on the toilet on the computer. This will still have to be done physically. €120,000 is currently an investment to make this happen. For the time being, computerisation will also be recognised by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and will not have the desired effects. The traffic and driver's license has been arranged by 400 citizens in Slovenia so far, e-received even through the computer; and you know, there is not yet a computer in every Slovenian family, and this is what should be arranged first. Not all of us are so lucky to be Damiani Kolepniki, who was allowed by the Government to have a computer, two, three or five at home. This is what the government should do first, and then introduce e-commerce. For if this is already in place, then let it be accessible to all, even those 30% of the people who live on the threshold of poverty in this country, but in time we the few individuals who have a computer at home cannot, of course, oppose the law. Once again: Minister, let us think about allowing the computer to be available to everyone and perhaps free of charge at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u23	Thank you, too, for your position. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 28.5. I will put three articles into the debate and thus three amendments. We begin with Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm opening the application procedure. Anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Here you go! There is no desire to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate in conjunction with Article 125a of the new law. I open the debate on Articles 13 and 26. However, since the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 13 and 26 of the draft law are substantively linked, I am putting together the two articles and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to discuss this? No, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 12th item of the agenda or at the latest at 19.25. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Employment Act and to the work of foreigners. We have an estimated 50 minutes for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I will therefore invite Mrs Marjeto Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, to speak for the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have put amendments and amendments to the law this year into the Government's programme with the aim of removing further administrative obstacles to obtaining work permits that we have failed to fully implement by amending the sub-legislative acts. Following the preparation of amendments and additions, we added two additional substantive sets of amendments, namely harmonisation with EU legislation, where the main amendment represents a more precise definition of the Government's competence to implement possible measures in the face of labour market disturbances. Eliminating the shortcomings of the applicable law, to which users of the law have been alerted, the Employment Office, as operators of the law and the social partners, and in particular addressing the ambiguity of the law. There are also two major groups of changes in this set of changes. The first refers to easier entry of researchers and students into the Slovenian labour market. Both have the opportunity to obtain a personal work permit for three years if they find an employer within one post of completion of a study or research work. However, the change is linked to the aim of attracting more foreign researchers and students. The second amendment relates to the area of infringements, and we have also identified violations of the law in cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate and divided them according to the gravity of the infringements. The most important changes to the law, as already mentioned, are in the area of the removal of administrative barriers, since we wanted primarily to eliminate unnecessary evidence for obtaining a work permit, to replace certain evidence with more appropriate ones, which facilitate the implementation of the objectives of migration policy in the field of economic migration and control, and in particular to simplify procedures for customers and for the Employment Office. The Law provides for the emphasis of the day on the process of obtaining the first work permit and the extension process is very simplified, which is important for the parties and also burdens the Employment Office. The period of validity of the first work permit shall also change from four to twelve months and the number of evidence or evidence, most of which must be obtained by the Employment Office, shall also be reduced on the proposal of the novel, on an official basis. We have aligned the amendments and additions to the law with all the competent ministries, government services, social partners and register holders serving the Employment Office for faster data collection under official responsibility. However, the bill was fully coordinated in the Economic and Social Council. We also agreed with the content of all the proposed amendments of the home committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u25	Thank you, too. The draft law was examined by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee. Please, Vice-President of the Committee, colleague Matjaž Hana, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! At its 26th meeting, on 11.5.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the employment and work of foreigners submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. The members and members of the Committee received, as input for the Committee's meeting, a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of 16.4.2007, an opinion from the Commission of the National Council for Social Activities of 23.4.2007 and an amendment from the Members, with respect to Ms Majda Širca, to Article 1, and amendments to Articles 8, 13 and 20a. At the time of its consideration of the individual articles and of the amendment tabled, the members of the Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 7, 8, 10, 12 and 46. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined that draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view and made comments to Articles 1, 2, 7, 9, 10, 12, 26, 29, 37 and 40. In its opinion, the Commission of the State Council for Social Activities also supported the draft law. The Commission also supports amendments to the law relating to the protection of the Slovenian labour market and to greater supervision of the employment and work of foreigners in Slovenia. The amendment of Ambassador Majda Shirca to Article 1 has therefore become irrelevant since the Committee has drafted and adopted its amendment to Article 1. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on the individual articles of the law and adopted all the articles. On the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee, the text of the amended law in which the amendments are adopted is prepared and is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u27	Thank you, too, for an extremely interesting report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Maria Pozsonec will present the position of the national communities. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance have a nice greeting! The bill will remove administrative barriers to obtaining work permits, comply with European legislation and remedy the shortcomings of the law in force. It will enable the employment of foreigners, provided that employers are unable to provide adequate domestic workers. If this sentence could be underlined, it would be underlined several times - that is, when it is not possible to provide suitable domestic workers. The Slovenian labour market will be protected, let us hope. It will also establish control over the employment and work of foreigners in Slovenia. The procedures for employment of foreigners will be simplified as less evidence is needed and a large part of them will be obtained by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment on official duty. The proposal for a law will also identify new concepts that will comply with European Union legislation. So we believe that the law must be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u29	Thank you, too. Comrade Bojan Homan will give his position to the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished viewers and viewers, everyone's welcome! We have before us a novel of the Employment and Work Act, which seeks to enable the employment and work of foreigners in cases where it is not possible for Slovenian employers to provide suitable domestic workers while at the same time making it possible to protect the Slovenian labour market and control the employment and work of foreigners in Slovenia. We are all aware that there is a chronic shortage of workers in certain professions, to mention some of them: construction workers, health workers, motorists, innkeepers, butchers and others. We have adopted several amendments to the mother's labour system that will make the law even better and more transparent. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we welcome the solutions to remove administrative barriers to obtaining work permits or to reduce the number of necessary evidence and to propose procedures for obtaining work permits. Many tradesmen have encountered difficulties in obtaining these permits in the production of various papers, and many tradesmen have preferred to give up and hire a black worker rather than to embark on the acquisition of all these work permits and proofs. The amendment also changes the period of validity of the first work permit from 4 to 6 months, while exacerbating the conditions for foreigners wishing to work in Slovenia as independent entrepreneurs or as founders of a personal economic society. Our Slovenian Democratic Party Group has been approached by individual employers who, based on practical experience, are sceptical about the solution that foreigners with minimum vocational education will be able to obtain basic work permits after two years of continuous employment, that is to say, three years of validity, and will be equivalent to Slovenian citizens on the labour market. They believe that it would be right and right for the employer to obtain a work permit for 3 years, since they have hired a foreigner, to collect a whole bunch of papers, to hire him and to practically educate him. In their view, companies will become a school for workers. Unfortunately, this practical experience came too late or was not mentioned earlier, as the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and the representatives of trade unions have already presented their positive opinion on the proposal for the amendment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we also welcome the solution prepared by or on the proposal of employers to tighten the conditions for the self-employment of foreigners, because we believe that abuses have taken place in this area, which we want to reduce or eliminate fully by adopting this amendment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the amendment of the law on employment and the work of foreigners and thus join the other European countries that want to regulate this area with the help of directives, and in particular in the context of enabling the protection of the Slovenian labour market and future Slovenian workers, while at the same time increasing the control of employment and the work of foreigners in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u31	Thank you, too. The SD Group's position will be mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Work of Foreigners Act falls at a time when we are reminded in the means of public information that quotas for the employment of foreigners are already being used this year and that the Government will have to consider increasing quotas. Well, it is important for the Group of Social Democrats in this respect that the proposed amendment of the law nevertheless requires the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider quotas, quotas and exceptions that may be expected in Article 1 of the proposed amendment. However we look at the employment of foreigners, it must be borne in mind that the legislation governing this area needs to be aligned with the European Union directives and addressed with the changes to the shortcomings identified in the implementation of the applicable law. The question is how we want to deal with this area in a broad and understandable way. I would like to point out here that, despite the fact that, both on the Committee and now in the position of the Minister, it has been ensured that the draft law is in line with the social partners, but a letter from the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia has been received from the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which also contains three amendments which would have arranged some things differently than the Government has proposed. I believe that it is now impossible to talk about these amendments at this stage because the articles are closed, but the applicants felt that the amendment proposals could take into account and implement the principle of equality or non-discrimination of foreign and domestic workers, foreign and domestic companies that provide services and enable the employment of foreigners in activities where there are not enough domestic workers. This should take into account Slovenian labour laws that apply to all and are not well amended with easier conditions for the employment of foreigners. This seems particularly important to me because it is a matter of taking into account the documents submitted; Slovenian workers have to propose original evidence, original employment certificates, while foreigners can only propose certified copies. And there are other things going on. I cannot help but point out that the Union of Free Trade Unions has made it possible to significantly facilitate the employment and work of foreigners, that there has been a lack of time for an in-depth discussion on changes to the regime, since less than a month has elapsed since the publication of the document to the adoption of the Government. The change in regulation significantly facilitates the employment and work of foreigners, which the Union of Free Trade Unions does not in principle oppose, but it is important that foreigners do work in Slovenia for which there are not enough workers and workers in Slovenia and other Member States of the European Union. It is about releasing the labour market for workers from third countries, i.e. from countries outside the European Union, and especially from countries of the former Yugoslavia, which in practice represent 93% of all foreign workers in Slovenia. Social Democrats do not want to re-launch a debate that would limit xenophobia or any other negative judgment on the release of the labour market and the integration of foreign workers into the labour market of Slovenia. However, we believe that in some of the amendments to the law sufficient time must be allowed for serious considerations and also for all the social partners to carefully consider and, of course, take advantage of the possibility of making comments. Nevertheless, we will not oppose the novelties of the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u33	Thank you, too. And mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the Nova Slovenije Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u34	Nicely greeted! The free movement of workers is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union's action, as it achieves greater freedom of employment, improves the use of knowledge and enhances the well-being of citizens. This has not only been proven on the European market but also elsewhere. The amendments to the law that we are considering today, namely on the employment of foreigners, aim at these same objectives, as the key purpose of the provisions is to remove administrative barriers to the employment of foreigners, to enforce measures to protect the Slovenian labour market and to control the employment of foreigners in Slovenia. It is still happening to us, despite unemployment, that, due to unequal supply and demand, employers do not get the appropriate workforce, and in some cases, they also turn to foreigners because migrants have turned out to be cheaper workers. In fact, this opens up two issues that Slovenia, as well as the whole of Europe, will have to resolve, which have sometimes been avoided: for the first time, effective training of workers, unemployed people, even more difficult workers, who will be able to carry out highly sought-after jobs or jobs, and the imposition of such labour tariffs so that young people from our labour market will decide on these highly sought jobs or jobs. The urgency of the integration of foreign workers, as experience with the free importation of workers, in particular from third countries, has shown the dangers of conflict and the rejection of the majority population to migrants. This is also one of the key issues of the Lisbon strategy, as regards social integration. The employment of foreigners, in particular in certain economic sectors, which is not based solely on the deficit of workers, but on the cheaper labour force, can create a wage situation as well as social "dumping", which further cuts and divides the labour market and the labour market. If you want on those who have reliable jobs, well paid, and on the other hand the market segment placed on the social perimeter, poorly paid and unreliable services performed by migrants, students or young people through disputed student travel. However, Slovenia must not afford such an increase in differences. We therefore need a more flexible labour market in Slovenia, based on incentives rather than rigidities and provisions that increase labour market rigidity. This means softening the work for an indefinite time, giving other forms of temporary and opportunity parts more security and a level of insurance. This is the way for greater coherence between supply and demand and increased prosperity for all. In such an environment, the arrival of a foreign worker will not be a threat, but the differences will be smaller. Europe is facing a major structural imbalance in the labour force, which tackles these difficulties by importing workers from foreign countries. This covers urgent needs or also causes some problems. The greater inflow of labour increases tensions and it happens that even third-generation immigrants are not integrated, which may also breed social conflicts. Therefore, when opening up the labour market, Slovenia must establish adequate supervision and ensure the integration of these persons. The New Slovenia Group will support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u35	Thank you. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the bill. We support the amendments of the Committee, which also take into account the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports changes relating to the protection of the Slovenian labour market and to greater control over the employment and work of foreigners in Slovenia. We believe that the removal of administrative barriers to obtaining work permits in Article 7 of the bill and, in particular, stricter control of foreigners who want to work in Slovenia as independent entrepreneurs, as defined in Article 10a of the bill, will help to reduce their work in black and at the same time facilitate the work of inspection services in the supervision and prevention of this problem in employers with a small number of employees. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support the arrangement that the condition of a one-year stay does not apply to a Slovenian expatriate or his progeny up to the third generation in order to obtain a personal permit for self-employment, to establish a business or p.p. It is particularly important for us to protect our locals, our domestic labour market and to arrange for the payment of taxes and employers' contributions to employees. Unloyal competition between foreigners and the rights of our workers should not take place. It may at present be a positive impression that the employment of foreigners is positive, as this increases the share of the active population, while we must be aware that such a solution does not mean long-term solutions and that we cannot solve the worrying negative demographic growth and problems in Slovenia. Experience shows that most of the employment of foreigners is not long - term. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are of the opinion that it is also necessary to assess and anticipate the long-term consequences of such employment in terms of social resources and cash registers in Slovenia, in particular what effect the employment of foreigners on our pension system will have in the future. We are also of the opinion that the issue of employment of foreigners in high-quality sport and culture needs to be publicly defined. Slovenian culture and sport must remain our national pride and value, our national treasure, so we should do everything possible to preserve our own culture and sport and adequately protect Slovenian athletes, culturers, artists and not just follow earnings, especially possible in sport. We need to invest more in development in Slovenia, so we should particularly encourage the employment of highly educated workers, researchers, students, including foreigners in areas where we do not have domestic experts. It is known that the less skilled labour force already requires the labour market on its own. We therefore support the provisions of point 7 and 8 of paragraph 1 of Article 11b of the draft law relating to the possibility of obtaining a personal working permit for a foreigner who has obtained a higher education in Slovenia and the foreigner who, after the completion of the research work, found a employer within one year. We support the possibility of equal arrangements for immediate family members of a foreigner with the status of researcher. We support this arrangement because we need to allow families to stay together with employment abroad. This also increases the likelihood of long-term employment of experts, since we must take into account that migration affects family relations, which in addition to the economic aspect certainly affects their decision to work abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u37	Thank you, too. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by colleague Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u38	Madam Secretary, present, nice greeting. There is no doubt that there has been a sobering effect on this law, which will also make it possible for unrelated Members and Members of Parliament to support this proposal. However, if this did not happen, it would certainly not be, for the Government has come to the National Assembly with a completely unreasonable and its own solution that it can, but not the Parliament, determine who the law can and cannot apply to. I tabled my own amendment, but fortunately it was a similar amendment to the committee that opposed this division, what Parliament can do and what the government does. In short, it was admitted that they had gone too far to the Government and agreed to the constitutional principle of power-sharing on the parent committee. So the Government will not be allowed to decide on its own whether, for example, a transitional period should be introduced or abolished in the employment of foreigners, but will be decided by Parliament. What concerns him is the discussion that took place on the parental committee in nuances today in the presentation of views. In fact, the fear of a foreign labor force, that foreigners who come to work with us can endanger and reduce the employability of our workers and workers. In the context of the discussions that have taken place after some countries have closed their doors with a transitional period to the new members of the European Union, that is to say us, such concerns are discriminatory, unequal and sad. Slovenia is already very closed and untraceable. We can be offended if others fear us, but at the same time at home we often fear others. Of course, marriage does not go this way, and if it reduces obstacles, there is no reason why we should not support and commend it. Let me draw your attention to something else. Indeed, it is not the task of this minister, but it will certainly simulate in the Government a proposal that touches the victim of trafficking in human beings. The victims are also mentioned in Article 2 or Article 8 which states that a foreigner is authorised to stay on the labour market in the same position as one who is a victim of trafficking in human beings - following the Convention; but let me make it clear to the Government in this place that it has not yet defined or ratified the Council of Europe Conventions on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, which it should have done long ago by March 2007, after having signed the Council of Europe Convention last April and committed itself to this signature. In short, she didn't do it, and, Minister, I also appeal to you to warn me that you should have done it a long time ago. Undoubtedly, you have all identified and I agree that in Slovenia there are not enough workers, especially in construction, agriculture, health care, the meat industry, tourism and science and culture. The quotas, I think, are too small this year, limited to 2030 foreigners who can work and work with us, and this quota was significantly higher and higher last year. But it is not just about the flow of workers who are in seasonal work in terms of performing works in construction and agriculture, and about which today and also in the past were the greatest speeches. It is also a matter of many scientists and foreigners who work in the field of art and science and certainly do not jeopardize our identities when they arrive in Slovenia; on the contrary, they only upgrade it and it will make them as much better as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u39	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be given by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished minister and guests in the hall! Well, unlike the pay phone in front of me, I will not argue with it, stressing that it is primarily the duty of the state, the duty of the government and this ministry to take care of the Slovenian worker and the Slovenian labour market. The fact is that we have already adopted legislation, which was, I will say, one of the most liberal in the European Union, by entering the European Union. The fact is that we have opened up the movement of labour for all members of the European Union, despite the fact that Slovenian workers could not be employed everywhere. The countries fought for years when, in fact, the Slovenians couldn't get a job, I don't know - in Germany. Slovenia couldn't do that. I ask whether Slovenia will be able to protect the Slovenian labour market if you want, by this law. The government says that the reason for this novelty is to remove administrative barriers to obtaining work permits, with two more content sets added: for the first time, compliance with European Union legislation and remedying the shortcomings of the law in force. Once again, what is important for the Slovenian National Party is to protect the Slovenian labour market and to enable, or better said, the supervision of employment and the work of foreigners in our country. Will the provisions of the law actually be taken into account in this direction, so will work permits be granted to foreigners only for those sectors for which domestic labour cannot be provided? The law states that the Government or the competent ministry will, in an effort to remove administrative obstacles, eliminate all unnecessary evidence, i.e. employment under easier conditions; even easier conditions than those of a Slovenian worker. I ask what is the evidence or evidence that is unnecessary for a foreign worker. Here I would like to stress in particular the need to control people who are employed in our country as foreigners. In the newspaper, I read today: "The amount of work permits decreased for 2007, most for the area of seasonal work." It's just for that area where needs are actually the biggest. Employers warn that there are simply no workers for certain professions. The highest demand is for occupations such as construction workers, builders, mechanics, truck drivers. I ask, given that we have not received any answers from the Secretary of State on the working body of the State. What will be the Government's action with real labour market needs? Mr Strovs mentioned specific measures taken by the Government or the Ministry on the basis of labour market disturbances on the home working body. But what is this special measure? Sorry, we don't know. We didn't even know. What, say, is government policy in this area? What's the market analysis? Did the government or the ministry do it? It is happening, for example, to implement today - past the legal provisions. It's a specific case. Individual employment agencies are expected to grant work permits to foreigners beyond the law or the statutory quotas. The allocation is to be carried out even with the instructions of the competent ministry. As has already been said, we did not receive an answer to this question on the parent’s working body, and apparently we did not receive it at the meeting today. I am rightly afraid that similar violations will take place following changes in the law. Otherwise, concerns about whether the ministry actually knows what it is doing are so much more justified if we look at the draft law, in the form that the government has sent to the National Assembly. If the opposition had passed such a law, [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] The government has undoubtedly submitted to it a reasoned, reasoned, negative opinion and the law would not have experienced further proceedings in the framework of parliamentary treatment. [[...]] The legal and legal service has given an opinion to the pure or almost every article of the law - I conclude - and thank God that you have all gathered so much wisdom together [[...]] [[Exclusion of microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! As a positive assessment of the additional regulation of the employment of foreigners, in particular from this point of view, as the proposed changes in addressing some of the shortcomings and administrative barriers will help to reduce employment opportunities or the work of foreigners in black. We cannot go beyond the facts found that foreigners and employers also use such a method of finding the facts of work because long-term procedures for obtaining appropriate permits make it impossible for them to work legally and, consequently, there is no adequate and necessary flow of resources from contributions from working relationships. The positive impact of the increased liberalisation of employment of foreigners is thus also shown by the fact that a greater share of the active population is also having a positive impact on the pension fund, but we also believe that it is necessary to take an intensive approach to the active long-term resolution of demographic problems in Slovenia. The work of foreigners is closely linked with the structure of the Slovenian economy and the structure of unemployment, as demand and supply of certain personnel on the Slovenian labour market are not balanced. Therefore, employers are forced to search for human resources in certain sectors, such as construction or agricultural seasonal works, even beyond our borders, and it is therefore important that the procedures for obtaining work permits are sufficiently rapid in order to ensure that empty jobs are filled and the work process is running smoothly. The fear of the Slovenian workers that their situation would deteriorate with the more flexible movement of labour within the EU has also proved to be unfounded, as there are only about 3,000 EU citizens working for us. Slovenia is only one of the job opportunities within the EU, and wages are lower, except in the Eastern Member States, than elsewhere. And we can say that while foreign workers from third countries are significantly more important than European citizens, they do not pose any significant danger to Slovenians, at least for those who do not want to work. We believe that, in a positive sense, certain areas are regulated also in the direction of sharpening the conditions for those foreigners who wish to carry out our activities on their own. As a weakness in practice, it has proved too loose but not enough restrictive provision to meet the conditions for self-employment of a foreigner. The range of all the proposed measures runs from liberalisation on the one hand and exacerbation on the other, to the inclusion of social components in terms of creating greater opportunities for family reunification, which we are particularly fond of in our parliamentary group. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that the current migration policy, implemented by the consent of the social partners, is appropriate and allows such regulation to be completed on the one hand in Slovenia, where the labour market is lacking, and on the other hand, with existing and envisaged options and safeguards for possible labour market disturbances can be prevented and remedied. Thus, the Ministry of Labour recently adopted a measure to suspend the issue of work permits, since the annual quota for most types of work permits was already fully exploited by the end of April or even exceeded for some types of licences. In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, but we are also aware that there is a need to invest a great degree of caution in the field of migration policy, as a multitude of people, including inadequacy workers, are coming to us with the release of the labour market, and there are few problems with the integration of these people into the Slovenian environment. The main issue of opening up the labour market for foreigners is, we stress, the maximum effort of the country to create and implement such an active employment policy, which will be positively directed towards Slovenian workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u43	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. However, since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the bill tomorrow, which is 30 May, in the framework of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Subvention of Student Food. We have an estimated 55 minutes for this point. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, so please give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Marjetka Cotman.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members and also welcome guests on the balcony! The main objective of the bill is to allow all students to lower their study costs and to eat as regularly as possible, but food subsidies are now determined by a new amount and not more by a percentage depending on the level of the employee’s diet. In doing so, coordination shall be arranged in a manner and within the time limit laid down in the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households. The fundamental changes, or news, are that the call for tenders will be prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in accordance with the rules on the implementation of the budget and that the law currently in force has to be implemented in accordance with public procurement rules. This is due to the content nature of the subsidisation of the diet, because it is not a matter of subsidising selected food providers, but guests, but of subsidising the diet of students, which made the current provision inappropriate and in practice caused considerable difficulties, which the Court of Auditors has pointed out. Then, provide greater social protection and encouragement in the study. Students with special needs due to functional impact, children who fell into the war for Slovenia in 1991 with the status of students and students who are parents are entitled to 10 additional student vouchers per month, so far they have only been eligible for up to 5 vouchers. The following amendment refers to the content of the records, we set out the more precise content of the records maintained by the operator and the records maintained by the provider of the subsidised student diet, which was now subject to regulation in the sub-legislative act or the Guide to the implementation of the subsidised student diet. The obligation of higher education institutions or higher education institutions to report student status data to the operator is also new, as it is not possible to provide student nutrition subsidies without such data in accordance with the law. More specifically, it also provides for supervision of the implementation of student diet, which includes control of the legality, control of the purpose and rationality of the use of budgetary resources and control over the implementation of contractual provisions relating to the subsidisation of student diet. Possible sanctions are indicated in the case of irregularities detected in the providers of subsidised student diet. The sanctions have not been established in the law so far; they have only been laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Commission for the Nutrition of Student Organisations. The contractor shall carry out a newly subsidised student diet in the form of an electronic record with a computerised system at the latest for the 2009/2010 study year, following the implementation of this Act, which is the appropriate time frame for carrying out this task. The law was also in line with the Student Organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u45	Thank you. The Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs has considered the draft law and the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Matjaž Han, will give a position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I hope to impress you again. Your Honor! At its 26th session, on 11 May, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on student nutrition subsidies. Representatives of the proponents with the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Mr Strovs, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service and the representative of the State Council, Dr Zoltan Jan, participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the amendments tabled by the Member, Mr Mag. Janez Drobnič, on 1st and 6th Articles. In the debate on Article 1 of the draft law and the amendments tabled, Mr Drobnič, considered that the law would not appoint operators to perform public functions, but would elect the operator of individual tasks on a public invitation and with the possibility of termination if he did not perform his work in accordance with the requirements set out by the contracting authority. At the same time, he also advocated the view that nutrition should be given as a priority in colleges or in the vicinity of colleges. Following the debate, individual Members and Members felt that abuses had occurred in the past and that the current amendment was improving the system and meant a gradual step towards improving matters. At this point, this is probably the most optimal system for regulating student diets, as students thought. They also advocated that students should have the option of free choice of place of consumption also because of poor eating habits, which are also a particular problem in secondary schools. After a brief discussion on Article 6 and the amendment, by which operators would provide for the provision of records for subsidised student nutrition in the form of an electronic record with an electronic computerised system no later than the 2007/2008 study year and not as proposed by the Ministry, 2009/2010, the members of the committee, on the basis of the Ministry's reply, did not support only the deadline, which does not mean that it would not be possible to carry out the matter before - such a proposed amendment by Mr Drobnic was not supported. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the law and the amendments tabled, the Committee decided not to accept Mr Drobnik's amendment to Article 6 and Article 1 of the same proposal and therefore the amendment became irrelevant. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Work, Family and Social Affairs and Disabled Persons also adopted its amendments, Articles 1 and 5. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the complementary draft law, which includes the amendments adopted, is thus an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u47	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will give the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u48	Thank you. The Law on Student Food Subsidisation was adopted in 2002 and establishes the right of students to subsidised diet and the way and criteria for subsidisation. The law thus provides that the beneficiaries of the subsidised student diet are all students who are educated in the Republic of Slovenia and students from foreign universities who perform study obligations in the Republic of Slovenia as part of the international exchange of programmes. The new law brings some changes, the subsidy of the diet will be newly fixed in the amount and not more than a percentage of the amount of the regression of the employees' diet, amounting to 2.35 euros. It will be coordinated in the manner and within the time limit laid down in the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. Students have the right to one subsidised meal for each working day after the current regime, and only on Saturdays and Sundays if they carry out study obligations in accordance with the study programme. Beneficiaries with special needs due to the weight of functional impact, children who fell into the war for Slovenia in 1991 with the status of students and students who are parents, are provided an additional 10 meals per month instead of the current five-subsidised meals per month. Data for the period 2000 to 2006 show that the number of student beneficiaries of subsidised student diet increased, including the number of cashed vouchers and budgetary resources for this purpose, which increased by as much as 84% during that period. The average amount of one meal subsidy rose from 423 to 535 to 535 in 2006, a 31% increase. In view of the fact that 75 000 123 regular students were enrolled in all higher and higher education schools in the 2005/2006 school year, and if the diet is subsidised all year round and 22 working days a month, then we will find that the diet has been subsidised to every fourth student and 26% of all regular students. The current law was based on solutions based on the basic objective of allowing all students to lower the cost of study and better and healthier nutrition at each study centre in Slovenia, thus contributing to a better study. The subsidy law thus provided subsidised food, irrespective of the social situation of the student or his family. Furthermore, under the current legal provisions, subsidised food is also available during winter and summer holidays. Student nutrition providers will be selected by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs in accordance with budget implementation rules and not in accordance with public procurement rules. This is because food subsidies are not subsidised by selected food providers and caterers, but by subsidising the diet of students, which makes the current provision inappropriate. The content of the records maintained by the operator and the content of the records maintained by the provider of the subsidised student diet will be specified more precisely. The obligation of higher vocational schools or higher education institutions to communicate student status data to the operators is also new, as it is not possible to provide student nutrition subsidies without this information in accordance with the law. With these proposals, which are covered by the amendment of the law, we agree in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, so we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Potrat will give the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The bill on subsidising student diet only solves one segment of the situation and social problem faced by the student population. More importantly, there is an arrangement for scholarships and the issue of tuition. However, by subsidising student diet, we regulate the possibility of cheaper nutrition for students in a way that is slightly different from other European countries, at first sight more favourable. Because the law is consistent with the social partners, the Social Democrats will not oppose the law, but let me draw attention to some other views. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will avoid warning the Court of Auditors by adopting a bill to subsidise student diet that tenders for student food providers were not carried out in accordance with the law, although the representative of the Court of Auditors did not claim that all previous invitations to tender were invalid or even invalid. However, it is likely that it is not possible to count on the satisfaction of those who have not been selected at this year's invitation to tender in accordance with the invitation to tender. Therefore, the proposed law will be resolved because it will be fully clear which law is applicable. The proposed amendment is therefore necessary, but it is true that coordination with the social partners has been necessary, this is with the representatives of the students, for a long time, and some still believe that the grant student diet operator is not supposed to be the Student Organisation of Slovenia, but should leave this to the invitation to tender. The student organisation of Slovenia, as a food provider, will be obliged to ensure the purpose, economy and efficient use of resources in carrying out the tasks. There are many tasks. One of them is participation in the implementation of the invitation to tender for the selection of student food providers, followed by the conclusion of contracts for the implementation and provision of subsidised student food, the issuance and sale of standardized student lunch vouchers and so on. What we believe to be essential in the Social Democrats Group is that the tenderers are selected in accordance with the rules on the implementation of the budget and not in accordance with the rules on public procurement, but that priority criteria should be given to the choice of quality and its price. Even better, it would be essential to meet the criteria of food quality. Why are we stressing this in particular? The fact is that the resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010 points out that we do not have representative studies on student eating habits, there is only a study of the eating habits of students of two colleges in Ljubljana that confirm the pattern of incorrect eating habits that also appear in other groups of the population. In particular, this applies to the abandonment of breakfast, the release of meals, the consumption of fresh vegetables, the consumption of fruit and milk and milk products. In contrast to other groups of the population, however, students are more likely to eat in catering establishments and are more likely to eat fast food. A review of the choice of food providers shows that the number of those offering fast food is higher, and this is not exactly in line with the smart eating habits that a young person would expect from a young student. It is therefore necessary to promote not only a lower price for subsidised food but, above all, to encourage providers to ensure the quality of their diet, not only when the subject of the invitation to tender is the subject of a choice, but throughout the year. As we say, we will not oppose the bill in the Social Democrats' Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u51	Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! For parliamentary consideration, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sent a proposal for a law on subsidising student diet and, unlike many other proposals, has previously aligned it with the Student Organisation. I particularly mention this because it is an exception to the current government, and in our view it should be a rule. Let us recall that the idea of subsidised student diet matured on the assumption that healthy diet contains a warm and varied meal. The country decided to subsidise student lunches with the help of today's student voucher system, after being tested by the University of Ljubljana Student Organisation on its own resources, and thus helped improve the health status of students. We believe that the regressed student diet, which is regulated under the student diet subsidy law as a right arising from student status, is one of the mechanisms that indirectly ensure satisfactory health status among students. In doing so, it should be noted that a resolution on the national food policy programme, which, while it is necessary to ensure a regular daily hot meal, should also be taken into account for the quality of food provided, which has a significant impact on the health status of the population. While the state has exemplaryly regulated the regressive diet of students, it is necessary to recall that the student diet is still unregulated and will obviously remain unregulated for some time, due to the unwillingness of the Government and the Ministry of State to regulate the area. This is confirmed by the fact that the Government and the coalition did not support the proposal of opposition Members to gradually increase the budget allocated to the student diet when the budget is adopted. At the LDS, we agree with most of the proposed solutions in the bill. Let me point out only some: As a nutrition provider, the student organisation of Slovenia will be obliged to ensure the purpose, economy and efficient use of resources in carrying out its tasks. We believe that the most efficient assignment of tasks in relation to student nutrition, of course, is the assignment of these tasks to entities that are also involved in the performance of student population tasks. The show is such an entity, has personnel, equipment, cooperates with the Ministry and has coordinated supervision. Student nutrition providers will be selected according to the draft law in accordance with budget implementation rules and not in accordance with public procurement rules. The quality of food and its price will be determined as priority criteria. The choice of the tenderer in the invitation to tender would not be appropriate, as this would result in the commercialisation of the services mentioned above, which is not acceptable in our opinion, since this is a non-marketed category. The student organisation has no economic interest in this, but it has experience and transparent functioning adapted to the needs of students. With these changes in the amendment of the law, instead of the current 75% of the amount of the regression for the food of workers, it is proposed that the amount of the grant for the student diet fixed and the amount, i.e. EUR 2.35, be coordinated in the manner and within the time limit provided for in Article 3(1) of the Act. In conclusion, once again, I would like to point out that the already mentioned harmonisation of the law with the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the fact that students' rights are generally increased by law suggests that we do not oppose the law of Members and Members. While some ministers are preparing reforms to the subsystems past the public concerned and, above all, without the consent of all the partners involved, we now have a law that is a bright exception. The government hopes to draw examples, we call for it to come to Parliament with such prepared and coordinated proposals. For this reason, we will support the proposal of the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of Nova Slovenije will be given by Member Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members. An orderly student diet is certainly one of the factors contributing to the success of studies, the health of the young generation and a coherent social policy. That is why the purpose of the law must be to ensure that students are fed at schools, that is, universities or universities, as well as partially subsidising meals, so that those with lower socio-economic status can also be afforded access. Each country must be aware of the importance of the young generation and act responsibly, even when it regulates student diet. In this regard, however, universities and universities should take a critical look at their mission and think about what young generations offer in this regard. The Law on Student Food Subsidisation establishes the right of students to subsidised diet and the way and criteria for subsidisation. The vouchers are in some way social corrective and allow students to reduce the cost of studies while at the same time they have a healthy diet in order to concentrate as much on studies as possible. According to the amendment of the law, subsidised student nutrition providers will choose the Ministry of Public Procurement in accordance with the regulations on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the contractor will participate in the invitation to tender within the invitation to tender. The invitation to tender shall take into account the quality of food and its price as a priority criterion. The amount of the subsidy will be 2.35 euros for a new student meal and will be aligned with the rise in the price of living needs. Beneficiaries with special needs, due to a more difficult functional impact, fell into the war for Slovenia in 1991 with the status of students and students who are also parents, are provided with an additional 10 meals each month instead of the current 5 subsidised meals. Higher education will have to send data on students to the contractor, for example: status, registration number, method of study, non-abuse and proper update of the records. The issuer of the vouchers will have to ensure that the records for the subsidised student diet are kept in the form of an electronic record, with a computerised system, no later than the 2009/2010 study year. In Slovenia we have many good software houses that are able to implement effective solutions that will, among other things, prevent abuses that are present. Of course, in the New Slovenia Group, we want to provide budgetary resources as soon as possible and that this solution would actually occur before that study year. The proposed changes to the law are good and we will support them in the New Slovenia Group. We are also pleased by the wide-ranging support for the amendment of the law, which is certainly the result of the efforts made by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Students have the right to a subsidised student diet under the current regime. This is an important right that makes it essential for many students to eat during their studies and allows them to eat healthyly. On the other hand, in truth, the subsidised student diet is in some way also the promotion of the use of guest services, especially in Ljubljana, as students represent an important share of transport and bring them a significant share of the profits. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed amendment to the student diet subsidy law brings good solutions that will slightly improve the current system. Thus, it seems logical to us to regulate the grant to a student voucher in the form of an absolute amount, which will, of course, be adjusted accordingly, in accordance with the law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households. We also see a positive increase in the additional number of individual beneficiaries with special needs. This solution is especially welcome for students’ families. It is a courageous decision that requires extra effort and effort to decide for a student’s family or to continue the study despite the birth of a child. An additional incentive for studies and social protection in the form of additional student vouchers is both more than welcome. After the novel, mothers' students and fathers' students will actually have the right to the vouchers for every day of the month. Clearer identification of record keeping and clear determination of sanctions in the event of infringements by subsidised student nutrition providers will contribute to better quality services and reduce possible illegality and abuse of student diet. The home committee expressed some concerns about the legal definition of the organisation authorised to carry out individual organisational and other tasks in the subsidised student diet. For the purpose of carrying out these tasks, the law provides for a student organisation. In doing so, we would like to point out that regardless of the possible concerns we may have about the work and sense of the Student Organisation, the field of organised sales of student vouchers The Student Organisation is doing well. In doing so, it tries to be as effective as possible and also by its own means to support the organisation of the sale of vouchers and to exercise control over student food providers. We support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u57	Thank you, too. Dr. Pavel Gantar gave the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In order not to repeat most of what my respected colleagues and colleagues have said before, I will mention that we will not oppose the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, and we will support it, and as the rest of us think and judge that subsidisation of student nutrition has significantly contributed to the quality of student life and at the same time created better conditions for students who are supposed to be dedicated to them. Surely, after so long, it is necessary to make certain changes based on experience and knowledge, as well as on the shortcomings of the current legislation, and we may be a little disappointed, but we expected more major changes, not so modest, although we welcome them. Some of the problems in the student diet, in this diet, exist, some have been mentioned, mainly related to the supply of quality food and the related adaptation of food products or offers to specific sums, vouchers and so on, which undermines the introductory findings on quality or this quality could be significantly greater. However, as it is said, the changes indicated here are supported; we support that this amount of nutrition is fixed in the fixed amount, as it is written, by expecting this amount to be adjusted as necessary to the costs or inflation. We also support the provision of additional meals per month to certain beneficiaries already mentioned. In doing so, we have a comment that those students who are without both parents could also be added to these beneficiaries, 6.7% of the students who receive a family pension, and this could be added to these 10 additional monthly vouchers. We have some concerns and questions on the record. As with a lot of other marriages, there's too much to worry about after control and control. Records that are electronic will contain the name, surname, registration number, mode of study, regular, extraordinary, student programme, including duration, period of entitlement to subsidisation, number of meals eligible, number of meals used and type of records will have to be maintained and forwarded by the food providers themselves to the service provider. Of course, if I make a joke, there's only a menu missing. I think that the amount of data is too much, unnecessary, that only the data that binds to student status are necessary and important, that and nothing more. Why am I stressing this? Because these databases, which are in electronic form, can also be used and used for other purposes. Therefore, in the design of these databases, it is necessary to limit to the minimum possible number of data that still provide monitoring of certain specific services. You will recall this discussion under a completely different law, such as the real estate record law, and so on. So we think the government has gone too far here. Unfortunately, Members and Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members did not have a decision-making mandate on the Committees, so there was no adequate attention to this. However, we hope that these shortcomings will not affect the law itself in a way that would, in fact, change the objectives of these records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u59	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be given by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that again. Before I touch on these changes, I will express my satisfaction that the Minister has found a hearing and a common language with the representatives of the student population, that she has, after all, abandoned the content that has pursued different objectives. I hope that the future competent ministry will not give in to the aspirations of restricting student freedom of choice and limiting their rights. The fact is that the tendency of the government to restrict students in several areas is increasing: in the field of study itself, the system of study, student diet, scholarship and not least, today we have heard about controversial student travels - so to speak, to close the student to "fax". It is not possible to ignore the idea that we have heard on the home work body by one of the government Members, so that it is good to actually list the students, record them at every step, even what they will do to themselves, what they will have on the plate, and, of course, what they will eat from this plate. Nevertheless, I will say that the proposed changes are actually positive, fully positive - that is why we will also support them in the Slovenian National Party. Food subsidy, which has been fixed as a percentage following the legislation currently in force, is newly set at the amount. Beneficiaries with special needs are provided an additional 10 meals a month, with the status of students and students who are parents, instead of the current 5 subsidised meals, which is undoubtedly a greater social protection and, of course, an incentive to study, due to the more difficult functional impact of the children who fell into the war for Slovenia in 1991. The current provision is also supplemented by a more precise indication of the content of the records maintained by the operators and the providers of student diet and, of course, the definition of control by measures or sanctions for irregularities identified. According to the Ministry, a few more than 6 million student vouchers will be cashable this year and an additional 300 000 next year. According to available data, it can be found that an increasing number of students actually benefit from the possibility of subsidised nutrition. In the period 2000-2006, the number of voucher users has increased significantly, and this is undoubtedly an indication that such assistance is still welcome and, of course, necessary in the future. In the Slovenian National Party, we stand in the position that students should have free choice, including in their diet, when, where and what they will eat. This choice is given by the existing system and, last but not least, by the Minister. Therefore, as has already been said, we will support the proposed amendments in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u61	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will give his position to the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague. In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners we will certainly support the amendment of the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, because we are aware that subsidised nutrition is an important part of the standard of living of students, especially with emphasis on this matter for those who live far away from their home or who study at school and who eat at home, in a cheaper way, cannot. Of course, the proposed law also means a certain extension of rights, which we welcome and support. The law thus prevents abuses, and of course it is new that the invitation to tender for student nutrition operators is in line with the provisions on the implementation of the budget for tenderers and thus, of course, increases this solution of transparency in the implementation of the diet. We also agree with the news about control over the implementation of student diet, which we believe will help prevent all possible abuses, especially due to the introduction of an electronic method of recording, which is the subject of the Student Organisation and is expected to be implemented in the 2009-2010 study year. The provisions concerning sanctions against offenders of the provisions of the law also make sense, and last but not least, the most important fact for us is that the law is in line with the Student Organisation, which in this way will have the opportunity to benefit from a subsidised diet in accordance with the law, consistently fair, without abuse and to further assist students during the study and thus also contribute to the success of the study. For the above reasons, the amendment of the law is supported by our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u63	Thank you, too. Mrs Maria Possonec will give her position to the National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u64	Once again, I'm here to say good-bye! I would not repeat what the speakers have said, but I am pleased that this law supports youth, so it supports the opportunity and therefore deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u65	Thank you, too. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss individual articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the bill tomorrow, Wednesday, 30 May, in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the beginning of the day, this is the first defence proposal for a law on the suspension of the validity of the Act on the non-cooperation of public function with a gainful activity. We have 5 hours and 55 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Ptræ. With regard to this law, a group of 13 Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrče requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr Ptræ, the representative of the bill-maker, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In 2005, the National Assembly adopted the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity. The government and the government coalition wanted to achieve the same goal by adopting this law: abolishing the parliamentary majority and the Government of an independent body acting as a preventive against corruption, that is, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. It was also clear that the government and the government coalition were disturbed by the President of the Government, mainly by the chairman of the Commission mentioned. The opposition has been pointing out the bad solutions in the proposed law throughout the adoption of the law, but the coalition has been undeniable in its desire to destroy independent supervisory structures. When the law was finally confirmed in the National Assembly, a group of members of the opposition adopted the law was forwarded to the Constitutional Court for review. The Constitutional Court first retained the implementation of the law pending a decision on possible non-constitutionality and then decided that the individual relevant provisions of the law were unconstitutional and that most of the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act, which was replaced by decisions of the coalition, were applicable until it was brought into conformity with the Constitution. Therefore, there are all the arguments and reasons why the unacceptable solutions in the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity change immediately. Foreign experts aren't oblivious to our behavior, either. Thus, in a discussion on the NGO Transparency International, the head of the Global Anti-Corruption Programme and the Anti-Corruption Division at the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, Stewart Gillman highlighted Slovenia as an example of a country where anti-corruption standards are falling and in breach of pre-accession agreements with the European Union. He pointed out that he was primarily referring to the abolition of an independent anti-corruption commission. With the proposed law on the termination of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a profitable activity, we want the applicants to ensure that this area continues to be regulated in 2003 by a law on the prevention of corruption. The Anti-Corruption Act, according to our assessment, provides a better basis for preventive work in the field of corruption than the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity. It is also clear from the explanation of the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the retention of the enforcement of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity that the entry into force of this Act could result in greater damage than the further application of the Anti-Corruption Act, where control of the conflict of interest is ensured. If there are shortcomings in the current regulation of this area, it is better to amend or upgrade the existing anti-corruption law rather than break the existing system and build a new system in the way the Government does. The system, as it wishes to enforce by the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, is more opaque and probably less effective than the system established by the Anti-Corruption Act and would also not constitute significant savings for the state budget. We are therefore convinced that we are following with it the content of the findings of the Constitutional Court, which repealed the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity in all its important works, and that, if we want to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, the law we are proposing would show support. The anti-corruption regime is of paramount importance from the point of view of the democratic functioning of the system. It is therefore not acceptable to bring it into line with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Accession or to take it merely formally, through a different composition of the Commission. This, however, could be seen from some of the government's public appearances, which indicated that the law would in particular adapt to the requirement of a different composition of the National Assembly Committee for the Control of the Property Status of Officials. However, we would like the proposed starting point law to adopt a law on the prevention of corruption, which the Constitutional Court has provided for and ordered to comply with its decision, in accordance with the Constitution. If there is a common assessment that we need a different solution in this area, the Government can draw up a new, more appropriate law on this basis. Until then, this area should be governed by the applicable anti-corruption law. Any new regulation will also have to follow the requirements of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which an independent body foresees for prevention in the fight against corruption, as we already have in Slovenia. That's why we don't understand why the government wants to end it. We would expect the Government and the National Assembly to be ready to accept everything necessary for the speedy ratification of the said Convention and to be committed, on this basis, to regulate anti-corruption more fully. On a proposal for the adoption of this law, the Government has drawn up its views. I submit that the objections raised by the Government against the law are not convincing. The Government's claim that international obligations to the Republic of Slovenia so far do not impose a specific organisation for action in the field of anti-corruption is double-crossing. For the government knows that the International Convention on the fight against corruption, which has not yet been ratified by the Republic of Slovenia, requires the Government and the State authorities to work independently and to act actively. As soon as the Republic of Slovenia is ready to ratify this Convention, it will have an obligation to establish an independent working body and to ensure preventive action against corruption. However, we have not done so far because the Government has no interest in establishing an independent anti-corruption body in order to ratify the United Nations Convention. However, the Government has very different answers to several questions sent on when this Convention will be ready for ratification. On 10 July 2006, the Minister of Justice very optimistically assessed the Government's activities to prepare a proposal for ratification, which he believed could have been carried out by the end of last year. On 14 December 2006, he argued that the ratification proposal had not yet been prepared because the Constitutional Court had not yet delivered its opinion on the constitutionality of both laws. In response to Mrs Lovtijar Bebler's parliamentary initiative, on 7 May this year, the Minister even announced that the Government would examine before the ratification proposal how the obligations of the Convention have been met by the regulated countries that have already signed the Convention. The Government therefore does not wish to propose ratification of the Convention, which is unacceptable, only because it does not recognise the wrong decision it has made by adopting its law. However, since the Republic of Slovenia will have to ratify the Convention sooner or later, at least I hope that the Government of Ratification will not delay indefinitely, so it is certainly possible that the international obligation of our country will soon take place and thus all the objections of the Government that there are no formal obligations will become empty. They are already empty because the Government is well aware of the existence of this Convention and that it would be good even if we do not have it formally ratified to include its contents in our current regime. Finally, it is only an empty excuse for the Government to merely prevent corruption, which is intended to be ensured by measures and activities to prevent it, is not sufficient, as measures are also needed to detect corruption and effectively manage related criminal proceedings. Of course, that is true, but these tasks are carried out by the police, the prosecution and the courts, and these tasks are not the content of this law, nor by the law on the prevention of corruption, nor by the law on the incompatibilities of the exercise of a public function with a gainful activity. That is why the Government explains the facts of the known truth and itself knows that it cannot be an excuse for us not to adopt such or other arrangements as to prevent corruption. The obligation to operate the police, the prosecution and the courts will remain in any case. All allegations by the Government against the adoption of this law are therefore inaccurate, fictitious or semi-true. The fact remains that the proponents stress: the anti-corruption law is significantly better than the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a gainful activity, as it deals with all relevant anti-corruption issues of the state authorities and should therefore be adopted and enforced as soon as possible. Immediately after its entry into force, we are also the proponents of this law, together with the Government, if it so wishes, to assess its potential weaknesses and inadequacy and to complement it by fully ensuring a constitutionally consistent and effective assessment and prevention of corruption. So if we follow the Constitutional Court's decision, if we follow the international convention, then today we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u67	Thank you, too. I give my word to the Minister, Dr. Lowre Sturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity specifies who are the officials, the restrictions on the performance of a gainful activity, the acceptance of gifts, the operations of companies and other entities with the public sector, and the obligation to report data and the public record of their assets. That law repeals the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and confers its powers on the Special Commission of the National Assembly. The Anti-Corruption Act provides for the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a lucrative activity for officials, restrictions on the reception of gifts, control of their assets and restrictions on the conduct of contracting entities under public procurement rules with business entities in which an official or his or her family member is involved. The Commission shall be established to prevent corruption to carry out the duties under this law. The Commission of the National Assembly is also envisaged to oversee the work of this Commission under the anti-corruption law. The Constitutional Court, by decision No. The U1-57-06-10 of 13.4.2006 decided that the enforcement of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of activity 1 shall be retained until the final decision of the Constitutional Court. Until then, the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act and the regulations adopted on its basis shall apply. By a final decision of the Constitutional Court of U1 5706/28 of 29.03.2007, it decided that the first sentence of the third paragraph of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a gainful activity 1 is inconsistent with the Constitution and the fifth and sixth paragraphs of this Article are repealed. In accordance with that provision, the National Assembly is required to remove the non-compliance within six months of the publication of the decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. It's just a small part of the law that was attacked; a little bit, I'd say. Proposals for a law on the termination of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a gainful activity in the proposal state that the Law on the Prevention of Corruption provides a better basis for preventive work in the field of corruption than the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. The title of the law already speaks of preventing corruption. We believe that only prevention in the field of corruption is insufficient if, at the same time, there is no appropriate leverage to act on the detection of corruption and the crime of corruption. Since the Anti-Corruption Act is purely preventive, the Act on the Incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity constitutes a good basis for detecting potential existing corruption. With regard to citing the applicants that the system of regulation under the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a gainful activity is less transparent and effective than the system under the Anti-Corruption Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that it does not comply with the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a more efficient and sometimes more stringent nature of conflict of interest than the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. In view of the fact that it is not acceptable to take a formal approach to compliance with a decision of the Constitutional Court through a different composition of the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, the Government recalls the decision of the Constitutional Court by which the law in this part is to be aligned with the Constitution. In doing so, the Government also points out that it is crucial that the Authority is committed to legislative decision-making. This is an important issue that requires thorough legal regulation, which is not possible in the way proposed by the Group of Members of the National Assembly. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the incompatibilities of the exercise of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity is unfounded and proposes not to be adopted by the National Assembly. To quote what we have heard so far, let me say that the Government has waited for the decision of the Constitutional Court and that the ratification process of the international convention will run out. That is what I would say, such commissions as we have had so far under the Anti-Corruption Act, are not found in the European Union countries. I therefore call on all proposers to give us a body similar to ours, for example, in the European Union countries from the euro area. Let today's debate indicate which of the European Union countries has an authority such as we have, or should mention at least three Member States of the European Union that would have had such a commission to prevent corruption as was the case with us under this law and is still the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dušan Kumer will give the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! To begin with, I will try to return the question to the Minister and the Minister will indicate the countries of the European Union where the Parliamentary Commission is, as defined in our law dealing with the fight against corruption. In the Social Democrats Group, we have already made it very clear in the adoption of the law that the content of the law is a copy of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity adopted by the National Assembly more than ten years ago, and that its adoption constitutes a decisive step backwards in regulating this problem, namely in the fight against corruption and clientism in Slovenia. It is an incomprehensible step backwards, despite the assessments and findings in the public, when you ask people who face it every day, that nepotism and customerism is a ticket for business, successful tendering and so on. So corruption is still an ongoing problem that has not yet been removed or reduced by its social evil. On the contrary! Given the fact that the economic and political elite in Slovenia has been strongly strengthened over the past two years, it is more than obvious that the problem is even more topical. The former elites have been joined by new elites, but the government staff mills are rapidly spinning, and this is precisely why Slovenian public opinion believes nepotism, clientism and corruption are still worrying and frequent, although the government is trying to convince us with statistics that this is not the case. If we judge by this data and judge on the basis of the experience and effects of the police and the prosecution, then in Slovenia this phenomenon is almost absent or the force is non-problem. On this occasion, we have also warned the Government and the drafter of the law to the United Nations Convention, which speaks of countries ratifying this Convention establishing an appropriate independent body for these purposes; it is said to prevent corruption. The law adopted by the Constitutional Court, however, which is justified and evident by its content and the establishment of a parliamentary commission in the National Assembly, proves that we are withdrawing from this Convention. And not just! We also deviate from some of the Council of Europe conventions concerning the prevention of corruption. And since we would like to make such an appeal to the European directives and guidelines, of course, when that is right for us, it would also be right in this case. Indeed, we are obliged to establish a convention on the prevention of corruption, a strategy and a programme that incriminates the active and passive corruption of public officials in the European Union, its countries and its Member States. These are directives and guidelines that define the need for European Union countries to have specific anti-corruption bodies, independent and independent, in order to adopt anti-corruption programmes in all national authorities and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, you will recall that I also asked about this three months ago, what was done on it, and the answer was that it was time until July of this year. So, through some parliamentary commission to determine what the assets of officials are, there is much, much too little to fight against clientism and corruption. And last but not least, this government, that this government majority, this government coalition has won in previous elections also because of the promise of a more effective suppression of corruption. Now her first move was to eliminate the tested European standard, an independent control of public and management functions that could potentially be the focus of clientism and corruption. Moreover, the current executive even assists in reintroducing self-control, a model whereby the idea that the political elite is trying to establish a system that will control it alone is re-established. Therefore, the proposal that the parliamentary commission composed of Members of Parliament should carry out these tasks, contrary to the direction of independent supervision. Similarly, the Commission would have been established within the executive branch of the Authority. So, in the Group of Social Democrats, we still believe that the current orientation is comparable to those in the European Union countries. With almost two years of practice so far, however, it would be wiser and wiser to draw up proposals for amendments and to supplement the existing law if we believe that its solutions do not create conditions for practice to be more effective in suppressing this evil, namely cuneiformism and corruption. We also agree in the Group of Social Democrats that the current Commission may not have the appropriate powers, so it would suggest that we assess whether or not we increase them and where we increase them. However, we are not in favour of ideas that have been legally defined in some other countries, so that the anti-corruption commission can also obtain enforceable, judicial and possibly even prosecutorial and police powers. This, given the division of power, would not be useful, but we agree that the police, state prosecutors, have an extremely important role to play in the fight against corruption. However, this role is not incompatible with the anti-corruption committee we have today. These roles complement each other because one is repressive and the other is preventive. That is why we believe in the Group of Social Democrats and once again stress that this law is a major step back in the fight against corruption in Slovenia. This is one of the major errors of this government and the government coalition, which abolishes the commission as a single body that controls the assets of all officials and advocates a self-monitoring strategy. It is paradoxical, therefore, when those who are a large part of their rhetoric and political energy during the period when they were in opposition used the daily repetition of valuable judgments in the style of 'all are dirty, all corrupt and corrupt, only we are not such' to end this independent control, for which they have so scrupulously advocated in the past. Even more. Even the WD40 have fought corruption somewhere in Dolenjska. And on this account, they've gained a lot of people's trust. With the hope of these same people that they are the ones who will once and for all put an end to these atrocities, which are called theft, corruption, customerism, etc. Of course, the question is in itself why this is so and one of the answers is clear: also because nepotism and clientism are the means of concentration of political and power the most effective means of preserving power itself. And this phenomenon is far from immune to the current political majority or executive power. On the contrary, the entire family and the related extension manages specific areas, both the economy and in other areas, which mean influence, money and, of course, the most important, status. And, of course, in such a context, an independent commission and an independent body of this political and economic elite can only interfere. So, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the parliamentary commission, which is also needed, is not a suitable substitute for the independent and independent commission we have today. And for two reasons. Members would monitor themselves by this logic, and secondly, the parliamentary commission is not an expert body, but a political body and in the Group of Social Democrats we see its role in addressing the system and functioning of institutions in the fight against corruption, but not in analysing, examining the property situation of all other officials and so on. In short, amendments to the current law - yes, the new law, which abolishes the independent commission, returns in 1992 - does not. It is not acceptable for Members to search for information on the property situation of other public officials and even have the opportunity and opportunity to misuse such data for political or other purposes. Every day we watch and remember what we watch on TV and what we read in newspapers. In short, once again, in the Group of Social Democrats, we propose that the Government take another look and try to redirect the current direction it advocates in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u71	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u72	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr President, Mr Minister. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a profitable activity and consider it a suitable basis for further consideration. In the Liberal Democracy, we are aware that the anti-corruption regime is of paramount importance in terms of the democratic system. That is why, in the future, not only now, we will be in favour of an arrangement that will follow the United Nations Convention against Corruption if it is signed or not. If a date has been given today, whether it is signed or not. Indeed, this Convention on Prevention of Corruption provides for an independent body, which we now have in Slovenia and does well, works well, every day works better. I have to say, two years ago, it was obvious that he wasn't doing well. It was obvious to him that he had not worked well for five years, but at the time he was only three months old - I mean, such a misdirection and you spent such lies here. And in this respect, of course, we fully agree with the proposers that, on the basis of the adoption of this law, the 2003 Act on the Prevention of Corruption, on the basis of which the Anti-Corruption Commission has been established and on the basis of which it works, should be reinstated. In fact, it is a preventive action and, of course, we have all the other organs for criminal action. I hope they're doing well and doing what needs to be done. In this context, we then support and fully agree and accept the finding of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which, in its explanation of the decision to suspend the law, stated that the entry into force of the incompatible law could be more damaging than the further application of the law on prevention, since control of conflicts of interest is ensured. This is recorded in the finding of the Constitutional Court. And if there are shortcomings in the current regulation in this area, it is better to amend or upgrade the existing Anti-Corruption Act rather than break the existing system and build a new system in the way the Government wants to do. The system, as it wishes to implement with the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of public functions, is more opaque and would probably be less effective than the system implemented by the Anti-Corruption Act. In the Liberal Democracy, we stress that it is not acceptable to take a formal approach to compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision through a different composition of the Commission, because it is also one of the reasons why it has so hasty with the Act on the Incompatibilities of Public Functions. Again, we agree with the proposalers that, by means of the proposed law on the basis of the Constitution of a coherent regime in the National Assembly, we adopt a law on the prevention of corruption, the application of which has also been provided for by the Constitutional Court to comply with its decision. However, if the debate shows that we need a different regime in this area, we agree with the proposalers that the Government should draw up a new, more appropriate law, and by then this area should be governed by the applicable Anti-Corruption Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u73	Thank you, too. Comrade Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with co-worker, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Assembly adopted the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity last February. With its adoption, the Anti-Corruption of Corruption Act and all the regulations adopted on its basis have ceased to apply. First, on 13 April last year, the Constitutional Court suspended the implementation of the law and in April this year decided that the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity was incompatible with the Constitution. The bill that is before us today seeks to ensure that the area of corruption is still governed by the Anti-Corruption Act. If we compare the detained law and the Anti-Corruption Act, we can find that the Anti-Corruption Act is a more preventive nature, but it does not contain measures to detect corruption and effectively manage procedures, which is of primary importance for an effective fight against corruption. As we believe in New Slovenia, it is essential that we provide an independent and autonomous anti-corruption body in our country. We advocate rational and effective solutions. The media is teaching us or informing us, and the National Assembly is also talking about corruption in Slovenia every day. So, the so-called Kosovo Commission is not effective enough. It is therefore essential that the National Assembly, with the upgrade of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of public office with a profitable activity, abolish this European uniform, establish an independent and autonomous body and finally step on the fingers of corruption actors in Slovenia. The government has just less than half a year to prepare a law that will comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. The government is also the central provider of the anti-corruption strategy and therefore, the fight against corruption and intelligence in this area is primarily its task. We will not support the proposed law in New Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u75	Thank you, too. Colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u76	Your Honor! The proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity has been tabled by a group of opposition members in the procedure of the National Assembly. It is therefore a matter of expiring the law by which the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption was abolished directly after the expiry of the Anti-Corruption Act. The purpose of this Commission was to provide prevention in the fight against corruption. As the proponents of the law in question wrote, the aim of the Government should be to repeal that commission by drafting a law whose termination is proposed in particular. The Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function was also addressed by the Constitutional Court, which first suspended its implementation and later decided that the individual solutions were unconstitutional and ordered that they be abolished within a period of 6 months. The purpose or purpose of the proposed law is to effectively reinstate the former law, namely the Anti-Corruption Act. It is interesting to think of the applicant as merely formal harmonisation with the Constitutional Court decision. Of course, harmonisation is necessary, this is absolutely undeniable. The laws must comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and, in our view, this is also the aim of the Constitutional Court's decision. In our view, however formal or substantive, such harmonisation is a matter of political discussion. It is crucial whether the law is or is not in conformity with the Constitution. Of course, we understand the opposition's desire to maintain the Anti-Corruption Act, as it has shown such interest when it adopts the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, at the time of the Constitutional Court's decision, and, of course, also by the proposal of the law under consideration today. In the Group of the People's Party, we supported the adoption of the Law on Incompatibilities. To this day, in our view, circumstances have not changed significantly in a way that makes a difference today. That is why we will not support the proposed law. We understand the Incompatibilities Act slightly more broadly than the Anti-Corruption Act, and from this point of view we think it is more appropriate. It includes both prevention and provides clear grounds for detecting existing corruption. It is so clearly governed by the non-compatibilities, prohibitions and restrictions on the acceptance of gifts, the prohibition of business and the declaration of the property status of officials. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with the Government's opinion on the proposed law. Let us stress in particular that we are awaiting the early preparation of the amendment to the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of the public function with a profitable activity that will eliminate the findings of non-conformity with the Constitution. On the basis of all the proposed legislation, we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u77	Thank you, too. Dr. Matej Lahovnik will give the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u78	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the parliamentary group, we really expect that the National Assembly, by a decision of the Constitutional Court within a specified period of six months, will abolish the publication of the unconstitutionality of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. At the same time, of course, we also express great concern about the proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function by virtue of the profitable activity that has been submitted by the Group of Social Democrats. We estimate that this is an urgent solution to the Group of Members, because the adoption of this law, as proposed, would lead to a great legal void. This means that since the entry into force of this law in Slovenia there would have been no applicable regulation governing the area of incompatibilities in the performance of public functions with a profitable activity. That would certainly not be good, it would be harmful, so we will not support this law. However, we want to make it clear that Slovenia needs an independent and autonomous commission to prevent corruption. It is clear from the Constitutional Court’s decision that the authorities cannot control themselves or that some institutions are still required to exercise independent and autonomous control over public officials. For this reason, in the Group of Members, we really think that we are going to make the law ourselves, either alone or with other parliamentary groups that are interested in this issue, which would actually regulate the autonomy and independent control of the work of public officials, of what is going on in this area. In fact, transparent supervision must be ensured, but we believe that the support for today's law, which we have in the procedure, would only mean that the Commission is in fact immediately lifted and a complete legal void arises. This would be very bad for the current situation, such as in Slovenia. We estimate that this is an urgent move and expect that in the very near future we will be able to come together and make a law that will properly regulate this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u80	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague. Members of the DeSUS are firmly convinced that regulating the area of anti-corruption is of paramount importance and constitutes one of the foundations of the rule of law. The proposed law, which is now under consideration, relates directly to the prevention of corruption by proposing the abolition of the 2005 incompatible law, which was nothing more than the upgrade of the repealed law adopted in 2003 on the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. In 2003, however, the Act was repealed by the adoption of a law on anti-corruption, which re-ordered the area under review and also provided for the establishment of a new, independent and independent anti-corruption commission, whose tasks were specified in detail in the law, but of course in a preventive sense, without the elements of sanctioning the cases identified. In order to oversee this Commission, an additional Commission was envisaged, namely the National Assembly Commission. In March this year, the Constitutional Court issued a decision establishing the proposed law that we have today on the table and which we are considering. The Constitutional Court has decided that certain provisions of the law adopted in 2005 are unconstitutional and have ordered them to be abolished within the prescribed time limit. We understand, of course, that much of the law that was passed in 2005 remained in force after the Constitutional Court's decision, but that part, which is inconsistent with the Constitution, is enough for us to think that it is best for the law to be repealed in its entirety and thus preserve the anti-corruption commission as it is and which enjoys a great deal of respect in the world and represents a major step forward in preventing corruption practices in our country. We believe that in the future it is also necessary for the State to have an independent body, an independent commission to deal with it, but we believe that the issue of the powers and possibilities of the anti-corruption commission to act can also be addressed by amending or upgrading the anti-corruption law. We also have some other institutions in the country that identify irregularities that are equally without the possibility of sanctioning, for example, the Court of Auditors has found a number of irregularities in the use of public money, but cannot act, which does not mean that they cannot act on those institutions that have the right, duty and the ability to act when it comes to illegal, anti-corruption and criminal behaviour in the field of public money and also money or resources in general. This is how we think that when we write in the coalition agreement that we will not support institutions in the fight against corruption that do not have adequate powers, we can also understand this by giving these powers to the appropriate commission on the one hand and, on the other hand, by pointing out to those institutions that have powers that do not use them or use them badly and could be used; we have the criminal police, we have the prosecution, we have the judicial system, and I think that all of these are called to fight corruption wherever it is discovered and wherever it appears. This is how we think it is necessary to repeal this law, which has constitutional reservations and inconsistencies, and to amend the 2003 law in force with a new anti-corruption law. In this context, we will support the proposed law on the abolition of the adopted law in our parliamentary group in 2005, and we will also support all proposals to increase the powers of the Commission that it does not have now and which is the only and in fact the main evidence is in this and in nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister, co-worker! A group of Members with the first signed Member of Parliament, Mr Portec, introduced a law to terminate the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of public functions by virtue of a gainful activity. It is clear from this act that the applicants of the law in question are not satisfied with the decision of the Constitutional Court, from which they expected the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of the public function to be fully declared unconstitutional. Obviously, only such a decision by the Constitutional Court that the law would be declared as a whole is acceptable to them, i.e. the whole law for the non-constitutional. That didn't happen. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, this is a political event, as some political actors are making every effort to preserve the so-called Kosovo Commission and the President of this Commission, Mr Drag Kos. Here I would like to point out once again that the Constitutional Court has not ruled in line with the expectations of the applicants and therefore has not established the unconstitutionality of the current Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity and not the unconstitutional nature of the parliamentary commission, which would, inter alia, take over the tasks of the so-called Kosovo Commission. The Constitutional Court has found that only one part of the competence of the Parliamentary Commission is constitutionally inadequate, namely that part relating to the supervision of so-called independent authorities such as the President of the Republic, the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors, the Constitutional Court, and also local community officials. In this part, the Constitutional Court has concluded that this provision must be corrected or supplemented within six months in such a way as to fully comply with the Constitution. Thus, the current Commission of the National Assembly, which is composed only of members of the National Assembly, is able to control the Members and officials of the National Assembly in a totally undeniable manner, and also the officials who, despite their independence, are responsible to the National Assembly. Therefore, the Constitutional Court does not have any doubts that the Commission of the National Assembly would oversee the officials of the Government or the ministries. The legislator, i.e. the National Assembly, now has a six-month deadline - now this deadline is shorter - given that it has been some time since the Constitutional Court's decision to remove those previously mentioned discrepancies, which will not be a particular problem, since there are more possible solutions that have already been publicly ordered. In the light of the facts I have been talking about, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that the advocates of the so-called Kosovo Commission are running to their throats, as after the removal of the non-compliances I have talked about, the anti-corruption law will no longer apply and the Kosovo Commission will cease to operate on several occasions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we note that it is only the wish of the first-signed Member of the Parliament to bypass the decision of the Constitutional Court, which does not wish to execute or fulfil it, but rather what the Constitutional Court requires the Assembly to do something else - that is to say, not to follow the request and referral of the Constitutional Court, but to adopt a new law by which the requirements and instructions of the Constitutional Court would not be fulfilled. This is unacceptable and, therefore, we cannot support this enforced and non-constant law, which even contradicts the will of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u83	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Respect! Since I am alone in the National Assembly, I do not recall ever having a proposal for such a law as we have before us today, but this is simply to break with two articles a law to which the Constitutional Court has made its observations and has also required us to correct this Act on the incompatibility of performing a public function with a gainful activity in accordance with the findings of the Constitutional Court. I am also thinking in this direction that a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Ptrčem Hotel - I do not know from whom, obviously before the Slovenian public - to point out once again that in this country, as far as control is concerned, I do not know what is wrong with another commission performing this supervisory function and thus, somehow, to realize what they have always been committed to. It seems to me that this move today to abolish some of the laws adopted by the National Assembly is something similar to that adopted in 2000, when MEPs, on the proposal of Mr Potræ, changed the constitution and bypassed the will of the people expressed in the referendum. So, from that act at the time, the matter went so far as to create a new political party, of which I am also a member. So Mr Potz has experience with such proposals and similar, but you do not think that we think such a proposal is serious. And I think it's more like, Mr. Potts, it's some kind of "hammering." Thus, the Constitutional Court has found that the monitoring commission cannot be composed of members of the National Assembly alone. I understand this that this proposal will be complemented in the next phase by a wider representation on this committee. It is likely that the solution will go in this direction - or that the number of those controlled by this commission or, if you want, the authorities independent of the situation will somehow be excluded from this control and, of course, we will also realize what the Constitutional Court has imposed on us. Of course, all the other findings of the Constitutional Court will not be difficult to comply with, as we had different views on the level of personal data control that this Commission actually had in its proposal for a law. And at the time, some of us thought that some of the data, especially those created in connection with some of the functions, before someone began to perform this function, was not really necessary and neither did anyone have the right to supervise. I conclude that, in fact, these matters can be decided very quickly, as the Constitutional Court has imposed on us, and there is no reason at this stage that this law, which we have adopted, is actually being abolished. Of course, I do not intend to vote and lift anything that I have voted for in the 2005 National Assembly once before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. So the story of this committee is the story of how it does not hope to show up on those or those who are obliged to do this work, that is to say, to identify corrupt acts and also appropriate sanctions - for the authorities which have these powers to carry out sanctions as well. Of course, because of this, I will not support this proposal, which is now before us. I remain in the same thinking as I have in the design of this committee, I do not know how many years ago. True, I admit that at the time I also supported this commission, I supported this law, but only because no one would tell me that because we will accept such a commission, which will be a toothless tiger, that someone would tell me that of course I am "against corruption". Today, after so many years, it's been so long that we can draw the line and make a certain inventory. And I ask you what was the result of this, except for some controversy in the newspapers - and I will not now go into the content of that controversy, whether it was administrative or unjustifiable, that is not what I want to say after all. I would like to say that after so long there has been no effect, and the fact is that for these big corrupt matters, the only Grubelic was, I think, legally convicted and no one else, plus all the committees that have been, but all the authorities responsible have done so. And in this is the point and arguments of the proponents that I am hearing today, the words that I am listening to remind me a little bit of that initial debate about the Owl, the words are very similar, not to say anything else. It bothers me that you're talking about the inadmissibility of the president of this coalition commission. It doesn't make any sense. I don't have any more problems with the president myself. I'll tell you another thing. I personally know the President well from another area where he is very active, namely in the field of football court, because he is a football judge, which I can say and personally tell him that he is an excellent judge. For I am also dealing unprofessionally with this area, I have worked in one of the football clubs and our club has already been judged several times – one is rare, for which I can say that he was a judge without mistakes or at least roughly I can say. And why am I telling you this? Why man has been successful there - whether he has been, since recently he appears very little there. Because he had all the powers there, he had all the powers! Not like this committee! On the football field, he not only ran around the field and said to someone else, "Listen, this one did a crime, and here the ball got out," but he decided if someone had committed a crime or the ball went out or if anything happened. And that's a big difference, whether you have executive power or you don't have it, that's the difference. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, can you imagine if someone were just running on the football field and saying, "Listen, this is where it happened, that's where it happened. Give me the file! Come on, check this out, see if it was that good." We wouldn't have come anywhere! But here, in corruption, that would be possible, there would not even be a whistle here and there - but this law was prepared by you, and I am not reading anything because you simply couldn't give it enforcement power, because there is no such commission anywhere else in the world, if there is any such commission. He doesn't, because he can't have it either, because we have the organs that have the whistle to do it, if I say so figuratively, and these organs are the police, the prosecutors, the courts and you have to do your job. But with us, of course, we're innovative, and we'd invent someone else, and then we'd throw up the blame, "Yeah, because he didn't do it, it's a thing like that." But if we have this commission, without teeth, without whistles, without arbitration, then we're going to be corrupt, and we're going to be very successful. And if anyone is against such a commission, then you say, "Yes, but you are against corruption," and I don't know what else. No, gentlemen, it's not like that, it's not like that! Let's be realistic and let's say who didn't do what they were supposed to do - the judiciary and those who are in this whole branch helping along. They didn't! But we don't hope to admit there's something creaking there. I mentioned earlier that no one has been punished by these big fish except Grubelic. And now let this committee do it! It's not the president's fault, it's not his fault. Those are the facts! Because he has no power, no power, and some others, and they have not done their job. And now I don't know why they'd throw up guilt on someone who doesn't have the power to do something, and then they're limping at us. It's not working. Let's pour some pure wine and say what it does to us and why corruption is what it is, and why sanctions are not more effective and they are no longer normal sanctions, because someone doesn't do something - but it's not this commission, and it's also this gentleman who's president, it's not who's to blame. I'm sorry, so talking about damage if we suspend this commission without authorization is to some extent misleading. It's pure bluff or, if you want, sand in your eyes, I'd say Sahara in my eyes. That is why, of course, I will not support this proposal alone, but it is right to talk, but let us point to the place that is right - these are the authorities that have all the powers to do it, but obviously one of these bodies does not. And I will not let go of who is now - either in the first stage, or in the second, or in the third, or at what stage is now the biggest fault. The fact is that these authorities are not working for us, and therefore do not pretend that it is now the greatest disaster if we respect the Constitutional Court decision, which has assessed it as it has estimated, but unfortunately it is not, but it is not the President's fault. I'm gonna say it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u88	Thank you very much. For almost six hours, it is certainly not necessary to discuss this as announced, but not because this debate would be irrelevant after the content, but because, as we have heard so far, we probably have not heard any new argument - even in the future it is not expected to do so. In fact, I speak more for the sake of supporting what Mr Žnidaršič has already said on behalf of the DeSUS Group that I will also say that I will support the proposed law and that I protest at least a little; although I support the law - the introductory thoughts written down in the bill. It says that the coalition has helped write this law to the Group of the Slovenian National Party. And at the very least, I have to exempt one part of the coalition from this serious accusation - the DeSUS Group had nothing to do with this. At least in my memory, there was a debate at the time in the sense that we opposed the proposed law at the time: for the first time, for the purpose of reducing independence, and for the second time for the sake of the procedure. And if I recall correctly, then there was also a coin that spoke of a coalition reserve, about a group of opposition Members, who very often came to the aid of the Government when DeSUS Group cancels its obedience. So, this, I think, had to be said that no one would really burden us with this marriage that we helped write - because I am referring to the previous one. So we, and I myself, will vote in favour of this law. Not because we would feel that injustice would then arise, as someone has already mentioned today, but because we believe that the previous arrangement was appropriate, at least more appropriate than the one now envisaged and to which the Constitutional Court has also had doubts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. I see that the debate is moving very quickly. I would like to say first of all that the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity has been adopted in this Parliament by democratic procedure. It was accepted by the Members who were elected in democratic elections, and I believe that it is also in accordance with the legislation and the Constitution in force. That way he can't be seen from this point of view. It is true, however, that the Constitutional Court has found certain parts of this Act to be inconsistent with the Constitution and has therefore imposed on the Government and this Parliament to remedy this non-compliance within six months. The Constitutional Court has not found that the whole law is incompatible with fully repealing, but only certain parts. The second thing I would like to say is that, already in 2005, when we adopted this law, which some would like to completely repeal, we found that the arrangements we had until then are practically unique in our area, that signs of the inefficiency of the commission's work to perform this anti-corruption function - some also mentioned this harmless tiger at the time. That, as such, the Commission imposes illogical, unnecessary demands on those it is supposed to oversee and that, last but not least, it brings the work of such a commission, at least in my opinion, not so small financial obligations for the state budget. In other words, in my introductions, I have heard that some think that these financial consequences are negligible. I think that a million or two million euros for Slovenia may not be such a small sum. The main observation that this law is intended to repeal is that this committee of the National Assembly is not independent. If she's talking about not being independent, then it would be logical for her to be dependent. Then the question is, who does she depend on? From who? The law clearly states that the President is a member of the opposition. The law also stipulates that the opposition has three members in addition to the presidential seat, i.e. a total of four out of seven. So the opposition has a majority in this committee of the National Assembly. And if someone claims that this commission isn't independent, but it's dependent, then it can only depend on the opposition. And the opposition probably could only wish that it had in such an important committee, which has the power to control corruption, to prevent customerism, the majority. I really don't see any issue here. For this reason, it seems to me that such a proposal that we have on the table today does not follow any objective of preventing corruption in order to reduce corruption in Slovenia, but may be pursuing other objectives. I am offering one that comes from the debate that the only objective is to maintain this existing commission or possibly its President. However, if this is not the case, I might recall the statement made by the current president of this anti-corruption commission, who was on one committee when we discussed this law, saying that it is likely that this is "to whom it carries more far". However, if the reasons for maintaining such a state are the same, then this law that we have here today, I absolutely cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. You're like a debater on the list. Yeah. Okay. Then Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In fact, one wonders whether there is a point to debate after we find that in this National Assembly, at least in this reference, some things cannot be said clearly enough to understand and accept what we are trying to say to the proponents of this law. As I accompanied the adoption of the Anti-Corruption Act in the previous reference, I can say that the law was prepared in cooperation with the opposition of the day. Who would like to know how the opposition decided at the time of the vote, who could look at the vote and see what the debate was like at the time. There was also, interestingly, a lot of talk about the title of the law, and it was supposed to be one of the fundamental sins of the law, that it did not indicate the prevention of corruption. But since I have relived this story today in the eyes of the Justice Minister, it seems to me only necessary to say that the Law on Incompatibilities does not speak of measures and the persecution of corruption, it speaks of something else, it does not speak of the incompatibilities of functions, it does not speak of anything, nor does it speak of "corruption". Therefore, this argument, which is of a cunning vine, is similar to many others, which could have been heard in the debate. Of course, I am speaking to express my support for the bill, which has only two articles, but other ways than this, to prevent a law that has a very unfortunate story about the origin, I do not know. It is not hidden to the public, not only once has it been said that the creation of a law that is supposed to be the result of even the opposition's view of corruption and comes from a party that, in my opinion, had specific tasks and a specific range, if necessary. As this law has then changed, we also know, but it cannot be denied that Slovenia has not ratified the Convention on the Prevention of Corruption and that, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, precisely the part which the opposition has most disputed since it considered that the anti-corruption regime, as established by the law on the prevention of corruption, which, however, guarantees the Authority’s independence, has been sufficiently regulated: however, if the scope of that body has not been too small or if the circle of those to which the law relates has not been adequately defined, we usually do so with changes in the law and such changes as are partial - what would be said in the language of the people, "what is adopted after the party" in the National Assembly. But here another procedure had to be introduced, that the script was completely transparent - and I am using the word transparency, because this coalition is so kind, even in matters that cannot be transparent in nature or cannot be, if they are related to secrecy; that we are talking about the Owl, of course, it is understandable - so I see no reason why we can shed so much anger on the proposal of the law, which is simply the result of something completely unacceptable, which has occurred in this national assembly because of the power relationship, of course, could happen. But he has no logic, but he has no real desire to deal with corruption in common. I do not intend to extend my debate to the very often mentioned field of the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office, the police and their powers. This is the way, after all, not only of those proceedings that are not related to prosecution, but also of the judicial branch and other repressive authorities in order to effectively prosecute them and prove them. I just don't know the possibility that either an investigative committee of the National Assembly or a commission such as is now established by the law on incompatibility in the National Assembly can replace what judges, prosecutors and police have to do. It is sad that the coalition - but I apologize to fellow Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners who have not yet joined in this view - cannot deal with corruption in the right way, but to look for circulars and excuses for what it would have done in the third year of its rule if its intention to combat corruption were indeed as convincing and firm as it had said when the opposition was still able to do, and not least to do so. Unfortunately, with such blind maneuvers as we have witnessed in the National Assembly, this will not be convincing and credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would be happy to support this law if, in addition to the good intentions of the proposalr, he could see in this law some meaning and meaning. The more I look at it, the shorter it is, the more I monitor the history of anti-corruption legislation, the more I see that this law is not useful and that it brings more problems than a solution, so of course I will not be able to support it. Of course, if, under any case that cannot happen, the abolition of this law automatically enters into force the law that we are dealing with today, says the old law, of course, would have made sense, but it cannot be in the legislative process that we know about. Thus, if we abolish this law, we are left with only the decisions of the Constitutional Court and we are left with only existence, not functioning, existence, existence, existence of the so-called Kosovo Commission and nothing else: neither the legal basis for action nor measures nor mechanisms, even unsecured funding. In fact, I'd say to this committee, a little bit more "stitch around the neck" and wait for the first passer-by to come by and slip the chair. That there was no other way, it was said in the debate. There's another way, I have to let you down, there's another way! And once again, we are waiting for what: a painful, long-lasting, also a frustrating battle between the opposition and the coalition concerning amendments and amendments to the law on the basis of the Constitutional Court, which the Government will bring to Parliament. We're going to fight here again, we're going to try to argue with each other again, what the real solution is. Once again, we will prove 1,000 times that it is necessary to have a body outside the government, outside Parliament, that it must be in the system, as we know it, relatively independent that we must, in particular, put our own, Members and other matters relating to transparency in the hands of someone else, not ourselves and so on. Once again, we will explain to the unbelieving Tomas, and not only to the Tomaž, which I do not see, in general, that the fight against corruption is lost at a time when corruption has already been received by the prosecution and the police, because corruption has already been suspected of being related to a number of other forms, social, political, ethical actions that will lead to fewer of these actions and that the prosecution and the police will have fewer jobs. We will explain all this again, and we will fight once again, and my assumption is that we will meet again in the Constitutional Court if we do not know each other, if you do not know first and foremost in the opposition or in the coalition, and learn from the many cases that have already taken place in this mandate. In spite of the good intentions I have said to the proposalr, I see no point in this law, I cannot support it, and of course I am waiting for a new fight on how to understand the fight against corruption in this country. I hope the pediatric clinic, the installations, the calls will teach you something and we'll be able to find a solution. I doubt that. Goodbye again in one year - I believe in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I did not engage in discussions in the preliminary steps of the adoption of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of the fact that there were many unnecessary debates, instigation, infuriation and everything else. Today I would like to express my opinion and position on this proposal. All respect for the signatories or investors of this proposal has only two articles. It doesn't convince me that this proposal is well-intentioned. I wonder what the real purpose of this bill is: whether to effectively repeal the law adopted a good year ago and to replace it with so far, and, as is clear from the very explanation of the proposal as well as from today's debate, it would be necessary to amend or upgrade the law so far. That's what the proponents were talking about. Or, which leads me to make time, today it has been set for six hours of new debate, and to discuss again what has been heard many times before; if the law is not good, how will corruption begin and increase, that "scroll" and so on, that I do not repeat. In short, create an climate, mainly in the direction of opening up corruption. These discussions were true, as I said, in my opinion, much too much. Such discussions are so full of listeners, and so are the debaters. If the applicants really had a good purpose, then they would draft a new law, a law that you think would be really good, or make proposals to upgrade the existing law. This would be the right way and could also be a good debate - none of this. You are giving us a message about how the anti-corruption commission is being abolished in the first place, because the czech - this is also written in the explanatory statement - was mentioned earlier - how the President of this commission Kos resented the Prime Minister of the Government, as the President of the Government ordered the Slovenian National Party to prepare and submit this law, which was then supported by the coalition. For my concepts of pure insinuation and insinuation, with no real basis and no real evidence. Your Honor! Corruption was more than too much in these transition times. Without corruption, some would not be able to enrich themselves beyond some reasonable limits, with fair work certainly not. We can't get rich without speculation, without all kinds of connections, information, political support. Without it, you can't become a billionaire, and we have quite a few in this Slovenia. I ask you how many of these anti-corruption connections have been discovered and denounced by the anti-corruption commission. How much? The anti-corruption law came into force in 1994. And here we really have to ask ourselves, honestly, openly, what is the competence of this anti-corruption commission, what it can actually do with its competences, what it has done so far, how many complaints it has made and what kind of complaints it has done. Does it actually have real power? Is there just some kind of scene, how we control and prevent corruption, and now that it stops, this corruption will break out. I don't want to be malicious with these questions. Some work has certainly been done and done by this anti-corruption commission, but in my view this work is more visible, more administrative. In particular, I would like to point out that there is no necessary power and resources to prevent corruption as it is in Sweden - you have indicated in your explanation where a special anti-corruption police and also a certain institution has been established since 1923. Then he can do something. And if we wanted, as I said, well-intentionedly, to propose such proposals, to supplement this existing law, the existing law. The Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity has transferred this work of this anti-corruption commission to the Commission in the National Assembly. And you don't agree, and I don't know why not. Do you not have confidence in the committees of the National Assembly? You have recently requested and also received or set up an investigative commission on the purchase of eight-wheel armor, which you even run. So, you have confidence in the committees in the National Assembly. We can transfer this work with some good professional support from the anti-corruption commission to the work of this commission in the National Assembly. Some of the countries mentioned in the explanatory memorandum have transferred this control to Parliament, such as Ireland. Ireland shall have a committee which shall also lead and supervise the matter in this direction. The Constitutional Court has examined the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, but, unfortunately, also the applicants of this law, the Constitutional Court in the Constitutional Procedure has ruled that the law is not inconsistent with the Constitution. It's not in violation of the Constitution! You probably expected it to decide that, but it's not. It has repealed only a few provisions which, in my non-professional opinion, are of a legal nature, particularly in relation to the administrative dispute. However, there is one provision, the delegation of powers to the Commission of the National Assembly, where it has provided that the National Assembly must, within a period of 6 months, remove this non-conformity with the Constitution. To conclude, I would only say that, in my opinion, it is irrational to repeal a law that has given so much and so much, I would say, procedures and debates and coordinations, and to continue working with the law so far, which in your opinion should also be corrected and upgraded. And it seems more appropriate for me to see that the opposition is also constructively involved in complementing the current Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, especially as regards the Commission, where the most optimal solution is to be found. This, I think, will also be the subject of a debate at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly, and I also expect constructive proposals from the opposition. But I will not support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. This proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with the profitable activity that we are dealing with here today does not, in my view, have the weight of discussing it as long as we have reserved it for this debate. For only these two articles, which break the existing, existing law and bring nothing new, make no sense to me. Personally, I must say that I advocate that everyone in the country, all institutions in the country that have to worry and fight corruption, do their duty to do their job. In this history of Slovenia, I think there have been quite a few corruptions that need to be pursued, but unfortunately there has not yet been an appropriate institution capable of getting to the bottom. I think the basic thing is that people are conscious, and they hope to report the things they see in their environment. Therefore, there is no need for a special anti-corruption commission, as we have enough institutions in the country to do so and are also responsible for persecuting it. Starting with our police, the D.A. and going to court. But unfortunately, I'm sure that all of these authorities have been at a certain stage or at a certain point have failed to perform their tasks consistently. And so I could say about the anti-corruption commission, if we look at their reports, we see what their successes are. We cannot be particularly proud of that. But it is true that we might ask ourselves, perhaps only as far as one thing is concerned, how does this corruption commission have more applications than, for example, the police and the prosecution, who in my opinion are the first to be called to detect and prosecute corruption in our country. I would expect the applicants to actually come to the National Assembly with a proposal for an amended, complementary, better law, rather than simply by repealing the law. In my opinion, there are many things in this law that are good and it is right that certain things should be upgraded. Above all, all those whom I have counted before will have to play their part and carry out their duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Today, we are having a general debate on a bill that we do not want anything but to enforce in 2003 the Anti-Corruption Act, if such a common will. However, in this law, it is still necessary to say in our proposal for a law that it is good that we have this debate today. What's good about it? In order to recall how, in the three years of the rule of the current government, the adoption of the law, which we are proposing to terminate today and what, due to the naturally established protection by the Constitutional Court, has been done in this time of anti-corruption. It is known that, as one of the means of taking power, the government coalition in 2005, of course, through the so-called opposition under B, proposed and adopted a law that had abolished itself, from the parliamentary majority and from the government an independent body. It has been said that it is okay for Members of the National Assembly to do so. It is not necessary to explain very much, but from what has been happening in recent weeks, it is obvious that it was for the government and coalition, because of personal grievances on the part of the President of the Government, in particular the President of the "Kosovo" Commission. Members of the opposition warned of bad solutions at the time of the adoption of the law. What it means is that we will no longer have an independent body in Slovenia. However, the ruling coalition, desiring to abolish the "Kosovo" commission, is like taking power in the economy, subjugating public servants, the media, the repressive authorities, but has gone to the end. Fortunately, we received support at the Constitutional Court for our arguments. And luckily, the Kosovo Commission is still a functioning body today. Even though this National Assembly, as if it believed that the Constitutional Court would not attach to our objections, has already reduced the money to the Kosovo Commission by 2007. Nevertheless, the Kosovo Commission is still a functioning body. However, to act contrary or to act inappropriately for the Government, it shows some interesting views, the principle opinions of the "Kosovo" Commission, and I think that they are valid to present them in a little more detail below, in order to actually see what happens, if, of course, on the basis of public statements by the representatives of the Government, we simply correct the composition of the Commission, which is currently created and is called the Commission, of course, after the anti-corruption law - the Committee of the National Assembly for the Control of the Property Status of Officials. Our intention to propose the termination of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity is to maintain an independent body. Three examples of why this is necessary. Let's start with the famous helicopters. On 9 January 2007, the "Kosovo" Commission issued a principled opinion, opinion No 60, if I am not mistaken that the functioning of the authorities of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of the adoption of a regulation and then without a call for a dedicated business to Flycom or "Letty commercially", as translated, of course, is a sign of corruption. And it was logical for Minister Bručan not to be pleased, not to Mr President of the Government, because only a few days earlier, I think he was lying on December 18th on television that these helicopters were okay because a call was made. Logically, the government doesn't want such an independent body. Second example, principled opinion number 67 [[You can all look at this on the website]] , the opinion of the "Kosovo" commission on the settlement of the Minister of the Beast with the archdiocese in Maribor. It's also a negative opinion. Opinion showing signs of clienteleism, property damage and inadequate operation. And if we go back to health care, the opinion of the "Kosovo" Commission regarding the implementation of the so-called additional type-crossing insurance. The mechanism developed by the ruling coalition with Minister Bručan at the helm was designed to solve health problems. It is clear that, of course, this is about the problems of clientelism, corruption and so on. These three examples - I could count them a few more, I think the last number is just over 80 - principle opinions of the independent independent body are very important to regulate the functioning of the ruling coalition. Well, these principled opinions are feared by the ruling coalition. Therefore, you are proposing or you will probably wish to propose an amendment to the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of the fact that there are simply some members of the National Assembly who will be added to another external or I do not know of any other officials. Such statements shall be made from public appearances by the representatives of the Government. That is why we wanted you, with the proposal of the law and today's debate, to note above all that the law needs to be substantially repealed and returned to the Anti-Corruption Act 2003. Let me remind you that the Anti-Corruption Act was one of the conditions for entry into the European Union. And let me remind you, Members of the ruling coalition, Minister of Economy, Minister of Finance, Minister of Foreign Affairs, when you begin to negotiate with the OECD, this will be one of the fundamental questions - whether Slovenia can guarantee and has an independent institution. This is not only something that will have to be organised in Slovenia in accordance with the so-called international obligations if, of course, Slovenia ratifys the relevant documents. This will undoubtedly be one of the most important parts of the negotiations for the OECD. We are therefore concerned that external observers estimate that anti-corruption standards are falling in Slovenia and that this violates pre-accession agreements with the European Union. The abolition or attempted termination of the anti-corruption commission, which prevented the Constitutional Court, is part of this section. Therefore, it is our intention as proposing that, by means of the proposed law on the termination of the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, it is by repealing the law repealing the law on the prevention of corruption that we wish to return, even under the provisions of the Constitutional Court, to the applicable law on the prevention of corruption. We are in the first reading and it is necessary to ask whether this is the right way, and certainly it is possible to have an appropriate editorial with a transitional provision to ensure that such a law will continue to be in force in the National Assembly, to enforce it in the legislative body if such political will exists. However, today's discussions show that there is no such political will. You don't want to have an independent body. You don't want to have an authority to give an opinion or buy or rent helicopters was a corrupt act. You don't want an organ to look under the minister's finger or settle well with the archdiocese. You do not want an authority that, in the case of Minister Podobnik, would see whether he has made a good deal with the company PUH d.d. You do not want to have authorities to warn the Minister of Health that we have such very serious problems in the field of health, with the application of specific species. The Anti-Corruption Commission website also shows very interesting statistics or a very interesting survey. People entering this website say that 51% of them believe that there is the most corruption in politics. I think 15, 20% say that the most corruption in health is followed by the economy, the judiciary 9%, etc. Why did I mention politics? Because you do not want to have an independent body from the politicians who, with their principled opinions, would point out what is the right thing to do, a body with which corruption can be prevented. You know, it's not enough to look at just the assets of the officials. In particular, because some of the changes in the legislation you have made, mainly with tax legislation and free movement of goods, capital, etc., can make it possible to have the assets of officials in different parts of the world and therefore it is not enough to have only a committee of the National Assembly to oversee the wealth situation of officials. At the very least, it is necessary to take over whether it would be good to take over from the anti-corruption commission a form for so-called reporting on the assets of officials. And may I remind you, of course, that many, many so-called, acknowledgment, of the winners of the transition, have preferred to reject you so that they would continue to be municipal councillors, rather than to report fully on their status at the beginning of a given mandate. That is why, of course, I think it is right to go back to the Anti-Corruption Act, that once we return to the Anti-Corruption Act, we allow the Kosovo Commission to carry out certain actions by the end of this mandate that are still necessary. One of these actions will undoubtedly be linked to the two investigations carried out by the "Kosovo" Commission, according to the public, must be very interesting. One of them is, of course, the prosecution of a tax inspector by the director of the tax administration, because this tax inspector wanted to extend the tax review of Mr Domn Zavrl, a flier of Partner Fin, d.o.o., to the Pediatric Clinic. Why is that interesting? This is interesting because, of course, the Minister of Finance of this Director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia defends or because the Minister of Health, Mr Bručan, says that there is nothing wrong with a person sitting on the Pediatrics Clinic's job committee, who was a few days later or even at the same time a procurator of a company who received a quarter of a million euros commission to intervene in some paediatric clinic business. And when the tax inspector proposes to extend the review of the operation of the Paediatric Clinic, the Director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will give him a cancellation, an extraordinary cancellation of the working relationship. Fortunately, we have several independent institutions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the appeal body, annuls the decision of the Director of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Did the tax inspector come back to work? No, it's not. Because another disputed resignation was given in the meantime. And, if it is true, according to surveys, 51% of those polled believe that the most corruption in politics is, of course, the functioning of public function holders such as the Director of the DURS, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health, of course, cannot be prevented except that you have an independent body expressing its opinion on such matters and I believe that, of course, the "Kosovo" Commission will say that the functioning of the director of the tax administration has been, at least, the protection of its clientistic actions. Mr. Director of Tax Administration is the owner of S&P, Simič & Partners, which is a landmark of 24 companies offering tax advice to Slovenian companies, and then tax inspectors subordinated to Simič are, of course, reviewing such tax forecasts. Another case that is worth mentioning because it is up to date is, hopefully, the "Kosovo" Commission will succeed despite limited resources, their opinion on the famous purchase of 8x8. It is true that an investigative commission has been set up to investigate all actions concerning the purchase of 8x8. However, I must say that this investigative commission, which has an extremely long title, will not quote it, but, in its own words, it says that it is necessary to eliminate the lack of transparency, to determine whether there was any lack of transparency, whether there was potential corruption, cannot be done in its work, or, in its own work, to try to draw attention to the opinions of the anti-corruption commission. The Anti-Corruption Commission is preparing its opinions on this, and we also understand that the Court of Auditors. And that's important. It is important because, according to international statistics and international analyses, I quote from the Geneva Centre for Democratic Control of Armed Forces, the role of the National Assembly in monitoring public defence procurement is very important. And the public order of a confidential nature that was made in the case of the purchase of armored 8x8 has a suspicion of corruption, has the suspicion of customerism. And it is good that an independent body, the anti-corruption commission, could also issue this opinion. However, the ruling coalition remains at issue, in particular, by the chairman of the said Commission. And that's where I'm gonna end up. If there is a problem in Slovenia that a certain authority should be abolished because the disputed chairman of the Commission asks you: What would it be like to use it with Banka Slovenije? Mr Gaspari was disputed, Mr Rant, Mr Mencinger was disputed, Mr Bole was disputed, Mr Dark was disputed, and Mr Dušan Maramor, of course, is also disputed in the opinion of individual parliamentary groups. Will you stop Banka Slovenije? Are you going to abolish the institution that allowed the euro to be taken over because the governor is in dispute? No, no, no. I hope that something like this will come to your mind, so I suggest you support the law in the first reading, the law on the termination of the law on the incompatibilities of performing a public function with a profitable activity, and, of course, in the second and third readings, we write such a law that will maintain an independent body, regardless of who will lead this independent body. If, of course, this is as controversial for some of you as we see it in the previous case, the case of the Bank of Slovenia, but not because the President of the Government has a grudge against the President of the said Commission, you are withdrawing an institution that has issued some important fundamental opinions in recent years and has begun to apply good practice in preventing corruption. That is why, of course, I will support this law and continue to work towards reducing the potential reduction of customerism and corruption in the National Assembly, in practice, through our actions, rather than acting in such a way that corruption and clientism, as is evident from a number of cases in the mandate of the Government of Mr Janez Janš, will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u102	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. The preliminary debate, in my view, is a typical example of confusion between the existing problem and distraction from the very thing that is the subject of this debate, which has been initiated by the Group of Members. The Group of Members initiated the procedure for the adoption of the law, and this preliminary debate discussed all the more than what the proposal of the parliamentary group or group of Members was but something else, what we discussed in this Chamber when we discussed the adoption of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of the function with a profitable activity. 90% or 85% of my predecessor's debate was based on what he said when he discussed this law. In my opinion, the purpose of such discussions is to maintain a group or commission for the prevention of corruption at all costs, to maintain its President at all costs, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court, by its decision, found that the Anti-Corruption Act was in some parts unconstitutional and that was also one of the reasons why a new law had to be adopted and this law was adopted by this National Assembly. This was the Act on the Incompatibilities of Public Function with Profit Activities. The Group of Members proposes the adoption of a new law with two articles. The essence of this law is that the Act on the Incompatibilities of Public Functioning with Profitful Activity is abolished and that the Anti-Corruption Act is established, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court has stated that this law is unconstitutional in certain provisions. I now do not understand what is desired here; does he want to follow the Constitutional Court or does he want to oppose the Constitutional Court? And this preliminary debate has only gone this way. So not to accept what the Constitutional Court has said, but even the contrary, by this law you are proposing to establish a law that the Constitutional Court has made very clear that it is necessary to amend it. We changed it. Now that it's been amended, you want to re-establish the previous law, which was replaced by a new one. It's a totally wrong world. So, total opposition to what the Constitutional Court has decided. I would not go to the debate to oppose all that has been said on the principled opinions of the anti-corruption commission, then on the fact that the existence of the anti-corruption commission is, if possible, still under the chairmanship of the current president, a condition for Slovenia's involvement in the OECD to be one of the more important negotiating venues and so on. I think it's really a little overpriced of explanations to do this, especially because it's not the topic of the agenda. We're talking about a marriage with two articles. And the Constitutional Court here has made very clear what needs to be done and I think it is the duty of Members to follow this and to correct those provisions that are constitutionally disputed and correct them by making these provisions indisputable, but this is just something, just a little bit to be supplemented, to change that the law in the set will fulfil its purpose and the Constitutional Court has said that the concept and content of this law are not constitutionally disputed. That little part, and that's the thing we need to talk about and fix, and I expect this part to come up on our parliamentary bench in a short time, and that we will settle the matter in that sense. This is what the Constitutional Court wants from the National Assembly, not what you want to do, that this law, which is fine, to be repealed and to be revived by the law which the Constitutional Court once again said was wrong. Therefore, we are obliged to follow the direction of the Constitutional Court and therefore such a law which opposes this direction and the request of the Constitutional Court, certainly, I cannot accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I guess I wasn't clear enough in my debate. I'll explain to Mr. Kovacic where the link to the OECD is. Let's take a helicopter case. If there was an invitation to tender, there might also be an Austrian or German company involved in helicopter operations. And this is what they call, within the OECD, freedom of economic activity. In Slovenia, as an integral part of the pre-accession agreements with the European Union, we have also accepted this in principle. In its opinion on the conduct of officials of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which decided that the Auto-Moto Association of Slovenia, in addition to the Slovenian Army and the police, could, in its opinion, be the only one to focus on helicopter transport for emergency medical care and transport to the health service or hospital, find that it corresponds to the definition of corruption. And the OECD, when we negotiate with it, will ask us to do what the International Convention against Corruption requires, and this is that Slovenia has an independent working body and has an active, preventive action. The Commission of the National Assembly, the supervision of the assets of the officials, cannot carry out this active, preventive action. That is why one of the basic assessments of the OECD or Slovenia will have a body that actively, preventively acts in the fight against corruption, and this is so-called "Kosovo" Commission with its 80 plus opinions. And I regret that Mr Kovacič, as a lawyer, does not understand that the Constitutional Court has only held us back, has held back the mistake of the National Assembly, which has gone to abolish the anti-corruption commission and, of course, is upon us, it is at the National Assembly that we meet the obligations we have committed to the European Union and if we ratify the international convention on the fight against corruption, even existing activities. And I'll be very happy when the next government comes and says, you know what, because of the OECD, we need active, preventive action, and then you're gonna have to fix it. So, Mr Kovacic, the link between the OECD, the "Kosovo" Commission and what you want to do yourself, there is only what document to read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! The law itself, as proposed, cannot be supported for a number of reasons. I can't agree to some of the allegations cited by the law's advocates. Hand to heart, the "Kosovo" Commission is just as apolitical as those LDS Members are apolitical to LDS, but now they've resigned, they can say, and we've never been LDS. As far as the good work of the Kosovo Commission is concerned. 61 gifts, of which only five are not the property of the National Assembly and these five are, I think, a couple of bottles of wine, a woman's route, an advert towel with a bottle of foam wine, which I will not name, because I could make someone an ad. Even "Kosova" herself has reported one liver sausage. Please tell me where the houses, cars, statuses are, and I don't know what else is going on when we're talking about corruption. But you won't tell me that liver sausage is corruption. Then we're corrupt every day. Either I borrow my co-worker or she ever lends me a sandwich. And don't tell me that I'm going to be reporting ten decagrams of Paris, and I think that's the weight of that liver sausage, unless someone else got something else. Houses, cars, status and stuff, and this "Kosovo" committee hasn't found out since its creation until today. I am also one of those opponents of commissioning, so that we can find out something. In my humble opinion, these committees are set up when we want to cover something up. Give me an example of a commission that was set up, and in fact, it has discovered something, and because of the work of this commission, someone has also been injured. I have to say, I don't remember a case like this. The fact is, and here too you will probably attach to me, if you are real and honest, the possibility of corruption was the greatest since the Republic of Slovenia's independence, and that first period of transition, when the "Kosovo" commission was not needed. At least, according to some then very senior government representatives, for example, one of the secretaries of state who said at the time, will probably recognize himself because today is no longer a secretary of state, but a colleague of ours, but also with what function was further rewarded by the electorate, so that he would not be mistaken: "Corruption in Slovenia is not enough to require a law on the prevention of corruption." Today, he advocates that we need this law. But then, hand to heart, the environment was so mature that it was a possibility of corrupting the surplus. There was no need for an independent commission at the time, but today this commission is absolutely necessary. And I'm not saying that the current government is any better. But today it seems to me that the present government is more concerned with clienteleism, clienteleism than corruption; perhaps someone from the current government is getting something for a favor, especially if they are walking across the border to negotiate how to invest in Slovenia, but I think it is more about clienteleism, about frame setting. And here I have to congratulate the previous authorities who traded doctors for doctors, and the current government trades doctors for auto mechanics, only that they're from the right party and that they run a big business. I agree with that. But I am also sure that there will be a national assembly committee entirely enough to determine whether any Member has a bottle, a liver sausage, a Parisian sausage or a mortadel. And I believe, I am sure that, as long as we Members trust each other here, and hand in heart, I do not see one Member hoping in this Chamber to stand up and say, but I have ever been corrupt, which means that we are all in here honest so that we do not trust ourselves. Finally, we are the highest authority legitimately elected by the people, but everyone else is appointed or appointed by the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're that area. And no one in this National Assembly has the courage to say and admit that he has ever acted corruptly. So he's honest. And why not trust an honest man when it comes to corruption? Finally, this commission will consist of various options, both left, right, opposition, upper, lower, in which environment someone is adding. And I don't see any reason to be distrustful. Therefore, I find the reasons cited by the advocates of the law completely unconvincing that this law would be confirmed today. As I have already said, I will vote against this law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have one bitter taste, and I feel like I'm in that confessional if you've been watching this "real Big Brother show." This hall also looks like that confessor, for we are speaking through each other, we are not listening, and then, of course, there are short contacts, and I will mention two, three cases that we have witnessed today. We heard two discussions back that there was a new proposal for a law that we adopted in 2005 because the Constitutional Court found that the previous one was controversial and that is why we went to a new law. This was an argument by the coalition, a position that we adopted a new law in 2005, although I of course do not believe it, I am also convinced that I do not believe it is because it is a different concept, because it is a different strategy against corruption or a "fear" against corruption; but well, that is an argument. Today we are listening because, also, the Constitutional Court has retained this law, that it is only small corrections, and that we here only remove these small corrections and everything will be fine. When we propose that it would be good, of course, to draft a new law, this argument, of course, our argument, with a large scale, is rejected. This is just this two-faced or misleading argument that we are hearing today, including this law that has two articles, as you speak. Otherwise, in principle, I would say the following if there is a social climate and with us it is definitely that allows nepotism and customerism to be something everyday; and you have to ask people, not only through surveys and some research, talk to people and they will tell you that today is not possible to get to work, there is no way to succeed on the call if you are not from the real political provenance if you are not in the right party, etc. I am not saying that this has not been the case in the past, but I am talking about today's state of affairs and the consequence of this nepotism and customerism is then corruption and corruption. Without this corruption and corruption, without nepotism and clientelism, of course it cannot be. So, here I think there is no dilemma and it will be difficult for someone to convince me that today in Slovenia this social climate favors this nepotism and clientelism. There's more to it than there was in the past. Some, this is my opinion and my position, because the staff mills are spinning differently, and I also said today in the introduction on behalf of the parliamentary group - the political and economic elite has been strengthened in the last two and a half years by the new elites - I think this is no sin to say it out loud, because we said: one set replaces another, but that first set did not just give up some of the privileges that have been in the past, it is said that as a result we can have more opportunities for corruption and corruption. However, if you listen to the data, statistics and also the answer to my question from the Government, it looks like there has been no corruption and corruption in Slovenia in the last two years. Statistics show that this is not the case and that this is not really a problem. I don't think there's a right thesis on those you're talking about now that we're talking about this law that some other authorities can't do their job, the prosecution and the police. Listen to the fact that we are discussing this law, the fight against corruption or the incompatibilities of a public function with a gainful activity have nothing to do with the fact that these authorities are unable to function and that they cannot detect these incriminal acts related to corruption, clientelism and nepotism. This marriage does not prevent them from doing so. And I'm just wondering, I'm just asking the question, why haven't they done some of the things that have happened in the last year? Here we go, from the helicopter, as it was today, from the operating tables, problems at the pediatric clinic and so on. I haven't heard from the police or the D.A.'s office. It's all, I think, under the rug. And a third. I was specifically convinced by the two-and-a-half-year period in this National Assembly that the Parliamentary Commission, which may consist of 521 party representatives representing two million people, cannot carry out this work properly, cannot perform it for a simple reason, any commission in this National Assembly is a political body. It's an organ, a political organ. I am not talking about other people who are in so-called independent and independent bodies not having their political orientation, but who are clearly a political body. And listen: Is it hygienic for me to control myself in view of this two-year and six-year practice that I experience now, here also with some other commissions whose member I am to search for and have an insight into some of the property data of all other public officials? Who today can convince me that, like in other cases, this will not be abused? Unfortunately, no one will convince me in this National Assembly. And this is one of the protectors for which I advocate that this is an independent body outside of politics, not because people who are there would not have their political orientation or pedigree. So I am explicitly on the opposite side of those who say that this commission can do this work. Finally, I would like to hear the answer, now after two and a half years of discussion, but one truly verifiable and correct answer: Is corruption a problem in Slovenia or is corruption not a problem in Slovenia? I would like to hear this supported by data, with some evaluations by the Executive. I haven't heard that in two and a half years. But for one simple reason, because all of you sitting in executive power two and a half years ago and about a month ago, in this same hall, you talked a lot about corruption, about the corrupt activity of the society in which we live. And we don't believe that in two and a half years this thing has turned to its head, and that today this thing is really so beautiful, so clean, so decent, as things look in some temple of wisdom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u109	Thank you. The word is given by the government representative, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have explained something yet to be said in view of the debate I have been closely following through. One of the questions was: What about the ratification of the United Nations Convention, which also deals with the issue of corruption. The government has repeatedly explained that it has waited for a decision by the Constitutional Court. The decision of the Constitutional Court is now here, is known and is also very clear and understandable. The government will respect her fully. The ratification process is in progress. We'll follow that. Surely we respect all the legal acts of the United Nations. Let me tell you again some heartwarming news in this place. Slovenia was elected to the United Nations Human Rights Council by a large majority of 138 votes just a few weeks ago. The election, the election itself and the vast majority that it has received, reflects the reputation Slovenia enjoys in the United Nations. In the implementation of this Convention, the Government will follow those countries that have already ratified the Convention. I said, first of all, we will see whether or not the euro-area countries have implemented this Convention, how the most influential OECD countries will eventually implement this Convention or whether it has already been or will be. It is also necessary to respond to the findings that have been heard in the debate that the Commission is not eligible under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity in the National Assembly. If Slovenia is in the process of entering the OECD, it can certainly be imitated by the oldest and largest Member State of the OECD, by the United States of America, and there is the commission of the American Congress, which is called the Ethics Commission. It is the political body that deals with exactly the same issues that our envisaged Commission on Incompatibilities, as stipulated by the law, would address. Therefore, it is evident in this respect that such a commission is inappropriate, in the opinion of the Government, to be inappropriate. It was also unusual to hear objections that such a commission should be independent and non-autonomous, or at least so that it cannot be dependent and that it cannot be an autonomous commission because it is made up of a number of Members and in which the opposition has a majority. Does this mean that the opposition then denies itself the status of independence and autonomy in such an important body? This is a question that I leave to all those who think about these important issues. To the question I raised at the outset, I want an answer, which countries in the euro area have such a commission to prevent corruption as ours. I want to hear the name of at least three EU countries with as many commissions as we have. This question was not answered in the debate for a simple reason because none of the euro area countries has such a commission and because three such EU countries cannot be found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u111	Thank you. The text is also given by the proposer. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u112	Thank you very much. First of all, given Mr Rezman's warning, I would like to apologize to DeSUS. Indeed, DeSUS did not participate in the adoption of the current law in my conduct, and I was imprecise in this part because I was talking about the coalition and I should be talking about the three coalition largest parties, with the help of the then bill-maker, which was the Slovenian national party. Next. I would like to remove the misunderstanding, which, according to the position of the group of unrelated Members, is the reason why they cannot support the law. We believe that the proposed law will not bring about a legal void, but will enter into force the law we passed in 2003, which is the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. For if, like our proposal, we repeal the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, Section 23 of the Act, which states in paragraph 1, "As from the date of the entry into force of this Act, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption shall cease to apply." Secondly, if that were not the case and we were wrong in this respect, it is right to say that the Constitutional Court, in its decision, said that the Anti-Corruption Act was still in force in its 5th paragraph. And, of course, we have neither jurisdiction nor wanted nor could we in any way annul the decision of the Constitutional Court. Our law will continue to be subject to the 5th point, which states: "The provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act shall apply until the end of the unconstitutionality identified in point 1 is eliminated." But we said we agreed that if there was a need for a supplement, we would do it. And for the third time, respected colleagues who are concerned, if for any reason there is any doubt, have already said that the law is being tabled on a regular basis, can be amended, complemented, could also adopt Article 3, which would stipulate that the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act apply until further notice. That's my well-intentioned explanation. That's where we came from. I don't mean to say that someone was making excuses for invalidity because they had another political interest, but this is certainly not a fundamental issue that should not be supported and rejected by law. A very important misunderstanding, not inadvertently, but purposefully, has appeared many times in today's debate. Indeed, it has been said that we want to implement the old Anti-Corruption Act in every way, but we do not recognize that all the powers previously conferred by the anti-corruption commission are transferred to the new Commission of the National Assembly. This is simply a profound falsehood that no one who has expressed it knows what the content of one marriage and another is, should not afford. The Anti-Corruption Act is an independent commission composed of five members, with the participation of the President of the State, the National Assembly, the Government and the Council of Justice, we have only Members and Members here for the time being. Secondly, both Commissions speak of the powers they have with regard to gifts, the declaration of property status, the prohibition of the exercise of a gainful activity, professional activity, and they have the same arrangements. And that non-reality, which is great, is the fact that the current Commission, under the Law on the Incompatibilities of the National Assembly, has no preventive powers, does not have any advisory powers, cannot give the opinions of my colleague, and has so far issued them, and has pointed out where corruption can be guaranteed. And this is a big difference that exists, and in this part, the former Anti-Corruption Act refers to a United Nations resolution against corruption, which explicitly requires preventive action, which also explicitly requires a self-sustaining and independent commission to carry out this business. We are not saying anything about trusting or not trusting the parliamentary commission for the work it is doing, but this work is essential in the Incompatibilities Act and is significantly more irrelevant than joint action, also preventively, against corruption. That would be the right thing to say and it would not be right for opponents of our proposal to hide from it. The next, which is very, very important to stress, is the fact that the law that we would like to enforce again is the Anti-Corruption Act has no action to ensure the sanctioning of corruption. This is only true if you make a dot here, then you create the impression that the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity provision providing for the sanctioning of corruption does not, nor does it. Neither one of them has them, and neither one of them has them, because we have the police, the prosecution and the judiciary for it, and at least as far as the good people of the legal system are concerned, it is wrong to mislead the public with such half-declarations. We all wish in this law and in another that the authorities we have to carry out this task successfully. We believe, however, that an advisory anti-corruption action is useful for taking action in every country's body. Today, in one of the debates, it was said - why have a particularly independent anti-corruption commission for this if we have a government? We believe that the Government cannot exercise these powers. This does not mean that the Government is not in charge of taking care of itself, within its bodies and within its control, that corruption does not occur. Only, even in the context of the functioning of ministries, including ministers - governments as a whole, I would hardly say, is possible anti-corruption action, and as a whole customerism is possible in the government and administration. So don't tell me that the government can solve this on its own and that it's no better that we have an anti-corruption commission in this direction. Giving the government these powers is if I'm a little mean, like letting a wolf guard a sheep. And this is also the opinion of the majority that the most corruption is where there is the most money and where there is the most possibility and where the most direct link between politics and the economy is if I define it most generally. The next completely inaccurate and unreasonable statement was that we are not satisfied with the Constitutional Court's decision or that we do not wish to implement it. Satisfaction or dissatisfaction with the decision of the Constitutional Court is a completely irrelevant matter. Only through this bill do we, in our firm conviction, implement the Constitutional Court's decision, as the Constitutional Court also states in its 5th paragraph that the Act on the Prevention of Corruption, which we, in our belief, are subject to the harmonisation of the current law with the Constitutional Decision, is applicable. We believe, however, that it is also this time to read in addition to the saying also the explanation in the decision of the Constitutional Court. As regards the reasoning, the Constitutional Court argues that there is no direct order that the law should regulate anti-corruption, but that corruption is such an important social problem in every environment. I am not saying that it is significantly larger or smaller in Slovenia, but it is also in Slovenia that it is right that anti-corruption activities are regulated. Secondly, it is true that we do not have a formal obligation under the international convention, but this does not mean that we do not have a moral obligation, and we will formally have, once the words of the Minister have been fulfilled, that in the shortest time - this is the shortest time I have added, he spoke only in due time - only to finally ratify the United Nations Convention against Corruption. And what is incontrovertible is that the Constitutional Court also states that, in establishing relations in the country, there is always a need to take into account in anti-corruption the relevant relations between the individual branches of government, which is why part of the decisions of this law should be repealed. It does not, however, point out that we should have an anti-corruption commission. That's right, he doesn't. As is the case in different ways in different countries of the European Union, this anti-corruption action can be regulated. Maybe even through the government, maybe there's a democratic relationship that lasts longer than we do, they trust that it's governed by the government. Many places, however, are therefore entirely different in the design of independent institutions, including institutes and the like. And it's only right that such a complete analysis is done. We hope that it will be done by the Government, or we will propose it ourselves through our research sector, so that we do not think about who, who thinks that it is arranged or not regulated in a country. I am therefore convinced that if we want to ensure that some of the elements of anti-corruption activities contained in the Anti-Corruption Act are preserved and are not even in conformity with the law, it is the Commission's systemic analytical tasks, which are specifically born in this regard alone. It's the coordination tasks of the commission. It is the advisory and educational tasks of the Commission and it is also finally an obligation for all bodies to adopt so-called integrity plans. Is it the luckiest or the luckiest? But these are issues that are much more broadly regulated in the Anti-Corruption Act than in the Law on the Incompatibilities of Performing a Acquisition Activity, which in just a few articles regulates the prohibition of receiving gifts, the fulfilment of property forms and, in principle, the inability to carry out a professional gainful activity for officials. So it's two substantively unacceptable laws. And our thing is that we decide in content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u113	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm opening a debate. Please report to all those who wish to discuss. Three reported, five minutes. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief. Mr Ptrce and I have no problems understanding the content of the anti-corruption law, the Anti-Corruption Law should be included here. We probably don't have a lot of problems. However, we have great problems with the interpretation of what this law you have proposed actually means. If I understood you correctly, the adoption of your law, which repeals the current law, would put the former law into effect. In my opinion, and we have consulted some lawyers - I am not a lawyer myself - I must say this is not true, even if there is this 23rd section of the law. Only if anyone, especially the Constitutional Court, declares that the current law is legally null and void and has no consequences and no consequences. Otherwise, if this law, whatever it is, I agree with it, is the existing one, you do not, it has article 23, which has extinguished the previous law and the previous law cannot be brought to life without being adopted by the procedure applicable to all laws. My interpretation is that if we adopt your law today, we do not have any anti-corruption legislation other than the Constitutional Court ruling which allows the Kosovo Commission to exist. Once again, I stress that this matter is very sensitive and that out of these uncertainties - of course, once again, I cannot vote in favour of this law, which has been tabled precisely for this reason. In short, it is my opinion that in the legislative procedure, as we remain, there remains only a long painful struggle to adapt constitutional changes to the existing law or to adopt any new law that will repeal the current one. I cannot see any other interpretations, for no one has declared the current law in force legal nothing. I just want to mention one more thing. By the way, a comment on the minister. Each country has its own specificities of the legal system and the regulation of matters, etc. Therefore, no solution is automatically transferable. There is not only a formal structure, but also a political tradition, etc. Therefore, it must be said that proof that some other countries do not have so-called independent commissions does not mean anything because they may have other mechanisms that replace these things and such arrangements as we have. We know that well. What we could learn from this proposal from the Independent Commission is simply a matter of self-restraint. Members as Members, independent of positions or opposition, should be aware that certain things related to their work, with the transparency of their activities, assets, incomes, ethics, must be passed on to some other people, not to themselves. This is a fundamental principle that should be respected and that principle respects this very arrangement. It could be even better than what the current law has abolished. Therefore, this argument cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u116	Thank you very much. First of all, on this issue, what was the intention of the proposer and what we are going to accept today. We're not going to make any laws today. Today we will only accept whether it is right to go to the Anti-Corruption Act 2003. How to enforce it is the next story. But I volunteered for the debate myself so that the Slovenian public would not remain open to what Minister Sturm said, but when in America they have so-called "Ethics Committee" and if it's good for America, why isn't that good for Slovenia. First of all, Mr. Secretary, that's not true. U.S.N. - in the middle of playing with the Internet - U.S.N., says the State Council has "Ethics Committeee. So if we were to translate this into the Slovenian situation now, the State Council will set up a commission to prevent corruption, which will eventually oversee the State Council and the National Assembly. However, the National Assembly, the US House of Representatives, also has "Committee on Standards of Official Conduct." So their lower house also has a so-called ethical commission. However, under US law, there is also an anti-corruption commission. It's called the United States Office of Government Ethics. The website you can see is in the so-called "Triangle of the Federal Institution", New York Avenue, Washington. And this institution is doing what the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission is doing. So please do not deceive the Slovenian public that if Mr Voinovich was on a visit to Slovenia, who was indeed in the previous term head of the Ethics Committee, this is enough for Slovenia. No, we also need an independent institution in Slovenia in accordance with good practice from the government. And as you have seen in the case of the US administration, the US legislature, we have three institutions doing what Kosovo is doing to us, the anti-corruption commission. I would therefore like to point out to the Slovenian public that it is not only enough to read something that is written on one website, but also to connect with other websites and you will find that we also have preventive authorities in America, even though Ethics Committee has. If you look at their website, you will see that they are carrying out similar activities, issuing preliminary opinions that the administration would not do this or that. And I stress that this is the United States Office of Government Ethics, it is not the US Government or White House, or, if you want, directly with Bush a competent authority, but it consists of appointed officials in Parliament. The staff list is clear. And it clearly shows that if you want to transfer American practice to Slovenia, it is not enough just in the National Assembly to appoint a commission with one or two "staffers" that will ensure active preventive action. So, Mr Minister, please do not deceive the Slovenian public, because unfortunately there is an Internet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u118	President, thank you very much. With these, forgive the expression "Jeremiahs" on corruption, the question is constantly asked: Who is the one who blocks any progress in this legislative area so that this matter can once be settled legally? If we look ahead to the elections, then the opposition shot three Ks with all the cannons. We were given sprays. We have been given various threats, how everything is wrong, who is in a corrupt relationship and so on. And the voters, and I personally expected that this Government, which has 34,000 people on the payroll, would be able to solve this problem with its potential and material support for tax money by sending such a Anti-Corruption Act to the National Assembly, which we will all accept more or less for our own. What happened in the past? The deer's law, which makes it more or less clear to us, is why it has become the main anti-corruption issue. Government and position this law strongly supports. We're just yelling it's not good. It goes to the Constitutional Court and is repealed there. So everything we did during that period was just so that the government stood in the shadows and looked at it. Then I expect, Minister Dr. Sturm, that your government will be capable. For I have no doubt that this law that we are talking about today will not come forward as soon as possible, that you will bring into this National Assembly some kind of law that will really help fight corruption. I can say that I don't understand the government that in the face of such pressing problems and the promises it has made about corruption, it is now going to war with everyone. She went to war with the press. She went to war with entrepreneurs, went to war with intelligence. Look, it's just for a few days of articles about Owl. And I've already got three files up there. She went to war with an army, two investigative committees. The position itself investigates actions on this, it goes to war with the police -- they threaten you with a strike. She went to war with the judges - nothing can be done here either. She's been going to war lately with a whole segment of higher education, science and technology. Yes, gentlemen, what are we in emergency? Are we going to meetings in the morning before the National Assembly, where we are talking about the very irregularities in this society? However, the government, which should make sure, on a legislative basis, that we have both the legislation and the mechanisms that the executive has in place to prosecute these things, has not done enough in this area to be able to be satisfied. I also think that the current motioner, Mr Minister, is not solving this problem at any satisfactory level. It seems to me that this was one of the desperate attempts to try to get a legal solution in this area in such a way that it would truly conform to the standards we dream about and of which I do not know how many people in the Republic of Slovenia. If I only remember how strong the lobbying is after this, it was years ago when another fellow Member and I tried to put in the lobbying law procedure, where if someone openly lobbies, admits, writes, wages are done. But don't ask what the pressure was, what was going on. Not only on a personal level, but also on the media, so it wasn't any of it. It seems to me that it would be good, Mr Minister, if we gathered so much will in the Government, so much courage, I think you have enough knowledge - to once with the sword of Damocles, cut this corruption and bring such a solution to this National Assembly so that everyone can be satisfied and be able to support it in this National Assembly with consensus. At least I expect that from you, and I think that the colleagues you've been trying to tell today that there's something really wrong - I'm going to vote for you, but it's a call from a desperate man in the desert.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u119	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the context of the half-hour vote. That's 3:40. This concludes this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. With regard to paragraph 2 of the agenda, I inform you that the assembly will vote in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Constitutional Court tomorrow, Wednesday 30 May 2007, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Complements of the Law of Justice. We'll proceed with the second reading. This is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 10 of the Act. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 13. In doing so, I inform you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 26 and, if the amendment is not adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant to Article 26. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 10, 13 and 26 of the amended law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I find that no amendments were tabled in the third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. With regard to agenda items 5 and 6, I inform you that the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment and Work of Foreigners and on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidy tomorrow, Wednesday, 30 May 2007, in the framework of the votes. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on the termination of the Act on the irreconcilability of performing a public function with a gainful activity. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function with a gainful activity, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 47. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jožef Školč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Jožef Školč's question on the question of respect for the ethical code in the ministerial assembly." An application shall be made for reasons of vote, first on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Joseph Scholch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will certainly not disappoint you if I say that I will vote in favour of this proposal and that I will also ask you to support it. Mr President of the Government was very embarrassed yesterday when he was motivating in his reply about what high standards the current Government has. I propose that we open a debate on this and really see whether the ethical code works better than the normal instruments that Parliament has and that the state has. Mr President of the Government, for example, said yesterday that his ministers had not paid anything from the black funds. No one's been able to tell them that. However, he did not answer why they were acting contrary to the laws of the budget. That's what we'd like to talk about. That is why I believe that it is necessary to support this, however, to see whether Minister Rupel really did the right thing, whether it is indeed Minister Bručan who cares for taxpayers' money, or whether Mr. Sponik can believe someone in the word that the work has been done and that he can be paid even without an appropriate contract and so on. I do not think that a coalition that swears on high ethical standards should at least refuse to discuss how its ethical code works if it is avoided, as I have often said, by Parliament. This will be a test of whether you are willing to discuss at least those instruments that you have set up yourself if you do not already love those that the Constitution provides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u122	Thank you. There's more to it than that. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my personal behalf. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I will support the debate on this because, above all, I would like to discuss what Mr Janez Janša said yesterday in response to Mr Školč's question. He said the government made two decisions in helicopters. These two marriages, both of them, the government is supposed to let that happen. One is the Public Procurement Act. The second is the law on, according to the household, the operation of natural disasters. Well, it's not like that. It is clear that the Government should act primarily in accordance with the Public Finance Act when spending public money. And far from having a legal basis for the Government to adopt a Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the organisation, equipment and training of protection and rescue and assistance. This was also noted by the Anti-Corruption Commission, which in this regard found that the Government, that the operation of officials of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who had determined that, in addition to the Slovenian Armed Forces and the police, only AMCs had the sole right to carry out helicopter transport, was in line with the definition of corruption. It would also be good to discuss this issue in order to tell Mr Janez Janša who will cover this loss to the AMC. I think it will be more than clear in the debate that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are acting wrongly and as the real anti-corruption commission is defined as corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u124	Thank you. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Miran Porč's question on the impact of the non-election of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia on the functioning of the Government. What's the interest in explanation? It's not. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 45. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Paul Gantar, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: At its next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the President of the Government of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Paul Gantar, on the content and method of drafting the Higher Education and Research and Development Act. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. I propose, of course, that you support this initiative to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to my question. I have to say that the more interesting answer I got yesterday, I have never seen or heard. I didn't see it either. Unfortunately, this was not enough to be satisfied with this answer. Above all, I was somewhat disturbed by the fact that, as the Prime Minister of the Government said, I was asking about something that does not exist, that there is no law, I heard. At the same time, however, as you have, I have found that the Minister of Higher Education has extended the public debate on a law that is not. Four former and reputable rectors urged the minister to withdraw from public hearing a law that did not exist. If I may be ironic, but I am truly gravely serious, it would be right to discuss this, it would also be right to discuss what the objectives of this law should be before the minister goes on or amends the law that he does not have, or the making of what I sincerely hope, of a completely new law. I hope that you will all support this desire for this debate in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u126	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, please, on your own behalf. It's just one hand. I'm not opening the application. Here you go. There's more deadlines. The application's on the way. In the future, if there's only one hand, I won't open. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. I will certainly not support this proposal. Not that I don't want to discuss these things. However, this working draft certainly does not deserve to be addressed in the National Assembly now, as it will make many changes and complement the debate in the professional public. Nor do I accept this general criticism, which comes mainly from the mouth of those who are trying to criticise it unjustifiably from the outset, but in particular from some places they care about their positions or the status to which the current regime suits them. Here I would like to point out that in discussions with a number of distinguished experts in this area, this law or this draft has received many praises. Especially those who aspire to excellence and all that Slovenia really wants and needs. This law will be subject to a number of amendments in the coming months. And when it's time, we can discuss it here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. I myself will support the proposal of Mr Gantar. Because it was very interesting to hear very different answers on one side of the President of the Government and on the other side of the competent minister. For one spoke of the adversaries, which are very loose. The second said that we have a draft law that is under internal review. At the same time, we also had the answer to talk about something that is not actually there. Of course, I understand that the Government and the Ministry of Higher Education are in trouble. In view of the fact that it came with the text contained in 128 articles as a draft law that actually came across a very sharp response from the public, which is actually the most competent one to judge the content of the law. So, rector conferences of students, research institutes, engineering institutes. It would be very correct to hold a debate in the National Assembly on what is actually going on in the public debate, which has been extended for a period of time. At the same time, we cannot know where we are or where we want to go with this law. Therefore, I think it is appropriate, reasonable, and necessary for us to discuss this here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u130	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u131	The talk itself in the National Assembly, in response to the Prime Minister, would be more than a challenge for this National Assembly. If not the other, I should face a very philosophical question: How do you deal with one phenomenon that does not exist? I mean, there's no law. The consequences of this phenomenon were: the students went on the road, set up an autonomous tribunal, the rectors broke down and signed a declaration that strongly disagrees with what the Prime Minister says is not. And if nothing else, it would be even more interesting to hear how to justify almost 50,000 euros in order to write something that the Prime Minister says is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u132	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support the proposal for a debate on the response of the President of the Government. I'm not going to ask the philosophical question, but I'm going to go down into the poetic field. This will be like discussing cat yarn if I quote Svetlana Makarovich. How else can it be explained that there is not something that could have been read in the media? Three authors of the draft Law on Higher Education and Research Activities reported to three rectors that they were against dialogue. Would it not be best in the National Assembly to discuss what was to come? Because what the rectors are reading about the draft law is that the concept of law for users and performers of this sphere is completely unacceptable. What can be done in the legislative process - but it is known that the majority always vote on the minority, and that the surplus is reasonable in the minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal alone, or it is not new. You've already proposed this in your previous session. At the time, Dr. Gaber asked for an answer from the minister, received an answer, and then the matter was already going on. You probably didn't follow up, so there was a talk at the time about these issues of the bill, some kind of draft sent by the minister to the professional public. And now, of course, this debate of the professional public is taking place. However, if it takes place in a way that we could have seen last night in Studio City, where a student - because I don't know if it was, if it wasn't all directed - he put it before the Faculty of Law and said that this law meant that the minister would appoint professors. If this is the way that is discussed and, of course, shown in this way, we can say that the mountain is shaking and that the mouse will eventually be born. I think that you will have plenty of time, that when the proposal is made, the draft law will be ready to have a debate in this House, and, of course, until then, it is necessary to wait a little longer and not to rush to the right and left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to Mr Sreč Friends' question on the envisaged disposal of the State share of the company General navigation Portorož." The application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members shall be pending. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] I'm opening an application in my own name. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I think that the least we can do today is to support this proposal for several reasons. The first reason is to give the Minister of Finance, who is a very busy person or the most busy person in this country and has limited time, the opportunity to respond to what he tried to answer in at least four written replies and yesterday in a somewhat more superficial oral reply about what will happen to the only Slovenian shipman. For those of you who don't know, there will be property. And the fear is that the main potential buyer is someone against whom many criminal charges are being filed, not only in Slovenia, but also in other countries. And the state here just doesn't do anything. Of course, you will not support this proposal unless you want the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do nothing if you want to hide anything. But last but not least, the independent Members are not bound by this, because yesterday the Prime Minister of the Government said that he was not the one who ordered it. You are independent people in here and all of you should be interested in what is happening to the biggest, only Slovenian shipowner. I therefore believe that your good conscience will find that this proposal needs to be supported and spoken here and that it will give Mr Bajuk the opportunity to say something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 16, against 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Sreč Friend about the use of frequencies in the area along the Italian border." We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 21, against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Boruta Sajovica will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister for the Environment and the space of Mr Janez Spožnik to the question of mags. Boruta Saiovica on the implementation of measures to adapt to climate change. The application shall be made on behalf of the Group of Members. Mag. Sayovic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u139	Thank you very much. There was a time when we talked about what would happen if the weather changes really did occur. Today, the fact that climate change is here and here is where we feel it. However, the awareness of the public, Slovenia and the world is relatively small. I mentioned yesterday that winters like this year are no longer a case. They're not extraordinary. They become a rule and every responsible government and every responsible country, and ours must also move from words to actions until it is time and limit CO2 emissions. I must say that I was satisfied with yesterday's question, because there were quite a few positive responses to it. First of all, I was asked about the Internet by elementary school students, and how CO2 can be reduced. And for all those who don't find this topic funny or marginal, something on this subject. By reducing the temperature in the apartment by 1 step, we reduce CO2 emissions by 300 kilograms. The energy label A plus refrigerator can reduce these emissions by 200 kilograms per year. Already replacing five ordinary lamps with low energy savings of 250 kilograms of CO2. Of course, what use of cars and motors should be like, I wouldn't be talking about this moment. However, these are also one of the major producers of CO2. How, on the other hand, can we also effectively help with the adjusted speed of cars if we reduce the speed of 110 kilometers to 90. This saves us a lot of CO2 and even in our wallets, as fuel costs are reduced by about 20%. What the ancient Chinese proverb says is that you have to fertilize a child, write a book, and plant a tree, by planting one tree, bind about 1 ton of CO2. These things need to be seriously discussed and considered. Yesterday's rain didn't ease the drought. Far from it. In the last half of the year, there has been a record of little rainfall in Slovenia, where these cracks have never been observed - say in our country in Gorenjska - we see cracks in which you can insert your hand at a length of one metre. Of the five better market sources of drinking water, which are as low as cascades, the upper dried up and there are still many of these cases. The time is coming for us to take concrete measures to decide whether we will have artificial snowing and cableways or thermals and spas on the ski slopes from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u140	Thank you very much for the parliamentary position of the LDS Group. Check-in is on. Mr. Pavel Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I will support the proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response to the question put by my colleague Saiovic. I myself believe that this topic of climate change is constantly coming on the policy agenda, that politics has long been reluctant to move on, but now it must. The fact is that Slovenia has a CO2 reduction programme of minus 8% by 2012. The fact is that this programme will hopefully be able to come to fruition. However, the fact is that Slovenia does not currently have a programme not to reduce but to deal with and adapt to climate change. Such a programme would be most needed in the field of water regulation due to the changed precipitation regimes, watercourses and all of this, but the Slovenian government should not have taken action at this time. We have projects until 2023. Except for hydrogen technology, there's no project to really do this. We have an island near Izola, but I tell you that in 2023 or earlier we will defend the coast from Izola, Piran and Portorož before the sea water rises. And I therefore agree that this debate will begin, even through the question of the Member State, because it has already begun in society in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I will not support the proposal for a number of reasons, which has already taken place within the framework of the EU Affairs Committee, where ministers and state secretaries are, as well as the Ambassador of Great Britain, who is very involved in this issue. They have just presented some visions or program to respond to climate change. Thus, the Ministry of Defence presented a new plan of threat against floods, a new plan against reptiles and so on, the Ministry of Health, the threat of tropical diseases. So, on the Committee on EU Affairs in a special session open to the public, we have already addressed this issue. I am pleased that there have been some nine to ten Members who are not members of our committee. Well, it's certainly an interest in the problem. If the problem were as acute as the proposal for a special debate, then it would be desirable for more Members to be present at this meeting. In addition, in Parliament, both homes, i.e. the House of Lords and House of Commons, i.e. in the State Council and the National Assembly, there is a GLOBE parliamentary group dealing with these problems. We have just returned from Great Britain, where we have been familiar with some aspects of solving these problems. And whoever wants to get involved in a more active rescue is, of course, cordially invited to join our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Anton Kokalj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u145	As a matter of fact, my friend Ziherl has already told us everything. I myself believe that the Institute of the Affairs of Parliament is a relatively inappropriate way of solving such an important problem, in particular with regard to the content proposed by Mr Saiovic. I think it belongs to textbooks and curriculums. I suggest to him that he goes there on roads that are common. Otherwise, I would reiterate that this issue is being addressed not only at a public meeting, but also at the starting points of the European Union's ministers when they go to various coordinations. And then also Members, if you are present, you can actively cooperate with your views and comments. And through this, I think it's also the most effective tool to achieve something in the end, not just to do some cheap populism story.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to Mr Saš Pečet's question on privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor." The application shall be made on behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs. Majda Shirtz has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] The application is pending again. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say, when I follow these votes, they are very interesting. Between 20 and 27 for. Everything else is against, but because you follow the instructions so well or suggest how to vote, in which you wish to debate - because we are still sitting in Parliament where you need to debate and talk - I am glad that if you follow what the Minister said this time - I have his magnetogram in front of me. Obviously this is a topic that will take longer than the Rules of Procedure offer us in this session of questions and answers. So I'm not hiding. The debate on this subject would be welcome, so I am pleased that you will once again follow the instructions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, how to vote and how to deal with such a matter as the New Bank of Maribor, at least those coming from Styria, know how to gather so much courage and vote that the privatisation of the New KBM is still under way, and thus enable Mr Bajuk to have a little longer session than the one given to him by the Rules of Procedure in the first item of the agenda when it comes to questions and answers. I will take an interest in taking a look at the vote, especially the Styrian Members, who come from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u148	We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 68 votes in favour and 68 votes in favour, 28 against 38. [[The vote was 28.]] [[38 votes against.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrey Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla in connection with the non-admission of the Law on the Legal Successions of Authorised Investment Companies." We're voting. The vote is under way. 68 Members and Members voted, 23 votes against 44. [[The vote was 23.]] [[44 votes against.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Mr Janez Spožnik to the question of Mr Sreč Friends on the establishment of gas terminals in the Gulf of Trža". We're voting. The vote is under way. 68 Members and Members voted in favour, 24 votes against 44. [[The vote was 24.]] [[44 votes against.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Rudolph Mojet's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "At the next regular meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister without a licence in charge of local self-government and regional policy, Dr Ivan Žagar, on the question of Mr Rudolph Mojet's question on how the Development Council of the cohesion region works." An application shall be made for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Mogue, please, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With great hope in the LDS, we participated in the adoption of the Law on Harmonised Regional Development, because the Republic of Slovenia is indeed so in need of this law. We set up a development region in it, if you remember. We've established cohesion regions. In the European Union, we have even now, because we cannot determine for ourselves that Slovenia is divided into two cohesion regions. The law also specifies the powers and authorities governing these individual saints. So we were very impressed by the reply of Minister Zhagar that Slovenia has not yet established a cohesion region Council, despite several years of validity of this law. When I personally asked the Minister here, he was evasive, and he did not answer the following question: "Why was this body not appointed, which is more than necessary?" And the second question is, "Who decides instead of this body which is prescribed by law? I think it is appropriate to say that we all respect the law and that this law should be respected with particular care by those who live in less developed areas. This marriage is supposed to bring some new quality. The lack of such an organ, however, means that it is essentially a decision over the thumb. We don't even know who decides how to decide on cohesion funds that are inadequately larger than the means for regional development. For this reason, we assess in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that this law is not respected by the ministers' replies that this Government is not up to coherent regional development. And that is why we will vote to discuss the answer again at the meeting of the National Assembly. Just to see why the government did not appoint this more than the necessary authority and who decides instead. If this is not voted out, it writes above the gates of hell "lasciate fire esperanza voi qui entrate", we predict that we will continue to try by legal means to reach the goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted for 26, up to 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport Dr Milan Zver to the question of mag. Majde Potra in relation to investments by local communities in educational institutions." On behalf of the Group of Members, the application is pending. The word is "ma'am mag." Exclusion, on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I ask oral questions regularly. This is the first time that I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt a debate on the Minister's response to my question. To steal your time now is because I was the last one to ask the question. I don't think you've looked at the magnetogram, what actually prepared me for this proposal. The school field is looking for major changes. The two laws are announced to be amended. Minister Zver convinces the professional and other public what will be the impact of the proposed changes on the increase of funding in schools to which they will be, and in kindergartens implementing the public school programme with concessions in private premises. The talk is that the public school network will not fall apart. The talk is that there will be no investment from public funds in these schools, private schools, and concessional kindergartens. However, there are no answers to which expert analyses give an opportunity to argue this, since the relevant expert analyses have not been carried out or they do not wish to be presented to us. And that is why, given that the Minister of the Beast has not yet responded to the proposal to extend the public debate at least until 1 July with regard to these two bills of law, I think it would be good to have at least a discussion in the National Assembly on the answer of Minister Beast to my question and to find a basis for whether we share the same views on the major changes that are being announced in education. I therefore expect the proposal to receive support. The Group of Social Democrats will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u152	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 43. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. It's a day-to-day thing, man-to-day love stuff. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Group of Members and Members of the Parliament of the Social Democrats submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a candidate for Vice-President of the National Assembly, proposing to elect Mrs Darjo Lavtizar Bebler, Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats, Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposaler, Mr Miran Potræ, to explain the proposal for a candidacy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u153	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats suggests that you choose Dara Lavtišar Bebler as Vice-President of the National Assembly. This proposal is made on the basis of Article 20, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, whereby the National Assembly of one Vice-President or Vice-President of the largest opposition parliamentary group. The proposal for a Vice-President or Vice-President shall be submitted this time. Our first proposal for Dr. Mark Pavli did not receive the required majority when voting in the National Assembly. The required absolute majority of Members and Members have, in secret, followed the political objections of the transition of the 12 members of the LDS Club to other Members' groups, rather than the obligations of the Rules of Procedure to respect the maximum opposition group and its candidate or candidate. Regrettably, Members and Members of the coalition, without whom the Vice-President of the opposition cannot be elected, did not respect their obligations. Later, without evidence, they tried to dissuade themselves from the responsibility for not being elected, which we understood mainly as a recognition of the error and as a message that the next candidate would respect the will of the biggest opposition party. That is why in the Group of Social Democrats we have decided to propose our candidate again. Mr. Mark Pavlich refused to run again. After careful consideration, Ambassador Lovtišar Bebler agreed to the candidacy. Members and Members of the Social Democrats, we unanimously supported her candidacy. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler is a university-graduate lawyer. She started her career as a journalist on national television. The Ambassador of the National Assembly was in the mandate of 1990-1992, 1996-2000 and in the mandate of 2004 which is now under way. In all its terms of office, she was a member of the Constitutional Commission, which she is now. At the time of the creation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, she was also the head of the working group to prepare a chapter on human rights in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. During the mandate of 1990-1992, she was Chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, and in 1996-2000 she was Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice. During the same term of office, Slovenia was co-chaired by the Association Parliamentary Committee with the European Parliament Committee at the crucial time of Slovenia's involvement in the European Union. From 2001 to 2004, the Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, where she was also president of the reporting group of the Committee of Ministers of Social Cohesion and Health of the Council of Europe for two years. In this parliamentary term, he shall be Head of the delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and for the second year also the Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In this function, in the absence of the President, he shall also chair the agenda. Dara Lavtijar Bebler has active English, Russian and Serbian language, conversational French and Italian and passive German. We are convinced that Ambassador Dara Lavtijar Bebler of the Group of Social Democrats has valuable and many kinds of parliamentary experience that ensure the proper and successful chairmanship of the National Assembly. We sincerely expect Members and Members to support our proposal. Due to public and, in particular, internal statements, we hope that this time a significant majority of all Members and Members will vote for the first-ever elected Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Darjo Lavtijar Bebler. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished candidates for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleague and candidate Dar Lavtijar Bebler! Ms. Darji Lavtizar Bebler, New Slovenia's new candidate group, recognises her long-standing political experience and her activities and her involvement in the work of the National Assembly, which, last but not least, has been rewarded by her constituents several times. As such, she is a suitable candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Its political path or career will surely be marked by the fact that, following its election to the LDS list in October 2004, after a good half of the 2004-2008 mandate, it has crossed over to the Group of Social Democrats, which has also become the largest opposition group in the National Assembly, which is the seat of one Vice-President of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you and the Slovenian public that the New Slovenia Group has not changed its position on support for this time as Vice-President of the National Assembly since the April meeting of the National Assembly. If not otherwise, it would be unfair for a colleague of Dr. Mark Pavlich, who was not supported at the April session as Vice-President of the National Assembly. For we cannot, with the function of Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, reward the fellow Members who were elected to the elections, with the anniversary of October 2004, entrust the city in the National Assembly, exclusively in the LDS Club. This fact has so much weight, given the electoral system we have in the Republic of Slovenia. Nor do we recognize the restructuring or transformation of the National Assembly on the basis of some arrangements, negotiations, or promises. We recognize the image or distribution of the seats of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia solely on the basis of the result of the elections. The New Slovenia Group would support the candidate or candidate for Vice-President or Vice-President of the National Assembly, proposed by the SD Group on the condition that it was or was elected in the October 2004 elections on the United List of Social Democrats. If I listen to the well-informed media, today Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler will become Vice-President of the National Assembly. I assure her that there will be no Members or Members from the New Slovenia Group to make her work difficult, in which we wish her many parliamentary skills and objectivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that today's election of Vice-Presidents, or thus Vice-Presidents, caused events in the past about two months ago in the Group of Liberal Democracy. The fact is that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we do not support the arrival of Members during the term of office from one parliamentary group to another, because we do not think that such a transition is in line with the results achieved by individual parties or individual lists in the elections to the National Assembly. In view of the Rules of Procedure, I must say that, on behalf of the Group of Members, we support the proposal of the SD Group of Members, because this is as stated in the Rules of Procedure and that this seat belongs to this Group of Members. Second. Because we support the decision to appoint a woman to this place, which we probably missed at the beginning of our term of office. And thirdly, because we believe that colleague Dara Lavtišar Bebler is also able to perform this function as an experienced lawyer and Member of Parliament. If she's elected, we want her to do a good job. The Group of Members will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u159	Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting. The largest opposition group shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, be the Vice-President of the National Assembly. The SD, since the largest opposition parliamentary group, has sent a second proposal to the election, this time a woman. The previous proposal in the vote is mainly due to awkwardness or lack of waiting, or perhaps also due to the skills of the leader of the parliamentary group, and has not received sufficient support. The non-electing of Dr. Pavlihe is primarily the responsibility of the proposer, who has not provided sufficient support for his own kind. However, the matter was hot and the steam was somehow needed to be released from the parliamentary group, even though the price of not selecting Dr. Pavliha and also the failure to fulfil Pahor’s promise to the candidate had to be met. We have no reservations until this proposal, which was submitted by the SD Group of Members to the SDS Group's election. Today too, Members of the SDS will act and vote responsibly, as we are aware of the rights enshrined in the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, I would like to recall, however, that in recent times, the style of the SD Group of Members has changed considerably. They used to be a tough but correct political competitor, but now this is not the case. Examples of recent meetings of some working bodies show that a large part of the arrogance, shame, resentment, which was formerly characteristic of another parliamentary group, has moved to them. And I must say in public that we are surprised that there is no public response from the party's top representatives to the conduct of certain working bodies. Nobody apologizes, nobody wants to see or hear anything. And I think you can very much take with your left hand all the things you've noticed so consistently in others and, of course, you've also made this very harsh and public objection to them. We believe your statement in that part of the proposal when you say that Ambassador Dara Lavtijar Bebler has valuable and many kinds of parliamentary experience. However, we are quite skeptical, especially due to recent events, in that part of the same statement, when you claim to be provided with proper and successful sub-presidentship in the National Assembly. The last cases in the working bodies do not absolutely attach to this. However, as has already been said, the SDS Members will vote in spite of this obvious change as we did in the previous candidate. On this occasion, I would also like to point out that this coalition, including with regard to the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, provides a superstandard solution, since, following the election of Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, there will be as many as two Vice-Presidents of three of the opposition types. That wasn't the medal of the previous coalitions. Even more. The previous coalitions were able not to allow the election of any Vice-President of the National Assembly from the opposition. Not even the one that belonged to the biggest opposition party. Of course, before the vote, we expect the Group of Members to make it clear that, in addition to the provisions of Article 20 of the Rules of Procedure in the application, they have also respected the provisions of Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads as follows: "The Members who have been elected by identical lists and Members who are members of the same parliamentary party shall have the right to establish only one parliamentary group. The Member may be a member of the parliamentary group of the same name list on which he has been elected, or of the parliamentary group of Members of which he is a member." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u160	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was confident that I would not have to talk about how I would vote or why it was worth supporting our candidate because I fully agree with what my colleague Potrce said in the introduction said. And I heard a little bit of an ashtray. Indictments, including talking about who has the credit for not having been elected at the previous meeting. And in the end, of course, the story ends with the proposer, with the Social Democrats, who, by the way, we now have 14 votes in Parliament. This is too little for us to have the 46 needed to choose. And probably not all of you just did what was foretold. In doing so, I would like, without specifically addressing the individual speaker and trying to contradict the claims about our arrogance, to say that, of course, I do not want to be offensive to birds, irrespective of their nature, but Mr Tanko - I prefer to have swallows in this case than a coward who puts his egg somewhere else, where it does not belong.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u162	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Dusan Kumar, you're giving up. Mr. Mag. Squeak, not at all. Mr. Just Bevk, not at all. Maybe he still wants the word "proposer"? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I am sure that our candidate, Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler, not only meets all the conditions for election, but will also work properly and successfully in this National Assembly. I would like to point out that I am firmly convinced that all Members and Members of our Group are trying to do so and to do so. But I'm not saying there's ever any slip. But I do not accept that only Mr. Jože Tanko can judge whether this is a slip. He's too little objective to afford it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u164	Since there are no more reports of debate, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the vote. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the election of the Vice-President, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Mr Franc Jazbec - SDS, Mr Aurelio Juri - SD, Mr Rudolf Moge - LDS and Mr Martin Mikolič - NSI. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? I'm guessing no, so we're moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. The vote is under way. 60 Members and Members voted in favour, 59 votes against 1. (For the vote was 59.)( He voted against 1.) I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 199 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate shall be elected, if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that shall be 46 or more. We will vote in the hall, in the voting booths. The Members and Members will submit the completed vote to the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament and Members to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 5 p.m. and will continue until 17.10. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-05-29-SDZ4-Redna-28.ana.u165	Dear Members and Members! Continue with the interruption of the 20th point. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 29 May 2007. 70 ballots were distributed, 70 ballots were delivered, 7 ballots were invalid, 63 were valid. "For" was voted by 37 Members, "against" was voted by 26 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mrs Lovtijar Bebler was not elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes of all Members. As the proposed candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes, the running procedure and voting procedure on the basis of the new application shall be repeated on the basis of Article 196 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. I interrupt this agenda item and the 28th meeting of the National Assembly, which will continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. I would also like to inform you that the Commission has its own meeting to oversee the budget in the large lounge in 15 minutes. Thank you. Good night!
