ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u1	Good morning, honourable Members. Please take your seats and calm down! I am opening the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Ivan Yelen, mag. Vasja Klavora and Mag. Janez Kramberger. I invite the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janš, to the first item, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the representative of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at 2nd and 12th points, the representative of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krk nuclear power plant at the 13th point and the representative of the Council of Justice at the 24th item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 6 December 2007. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We move on to a proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The SDS, NSI and SLS members propose to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia - the first consideration. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 12 December 2007. Would you like a representative of the motions to withdraw? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the bill's proponents? Here you go, Mr. Žnidaršič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! As the first-signed draft law, I strongly object to the proposal for withdrawal, since the coalition had the opportunity to express its opinion on this law at the time before the submission of this proposal, the same is true of the Ministry of State, but the ignorance of our party in this coalition is so severe that we were not worth a single word on this subject, and then, of course, in accordance with the rules of operation of the coalition, we have introduced the law ourselves and are waiting for consideration in the first reading, within which we would determine whether the law is the appropriate basis for the continuation of the hearing or whether it will convey a critical word on whether the adoption and procedure is continuing or not. The proposed withdrawal at a time when half of the people in this country live worse than the year before, at a time when the withdrawal of the law to reject the collapse of the social state is required, the proposal of the three coalition groups of Members for us is offensive and unacceptable to the citizens of this country and means a further erosion of the social state, not to say even the erosion of the constitutional regime which speaks of Slovenia as a democratic, legal and social state. If it goes that way with social services, then it won't happen again. This means that even the constitutional provision in the preamble of the Slovenian Constitution is being violated in this respect. It is unacceptable that at a time when the President of the Government in all his performances is talking about prosperity, about great economic growth, about the success of our country, we are making the situation of the poorest worse, and he is talking about prosperity when half the people are worse than the year before. Not to say that when the law was passed, it was said that the financial implications of 1.8 billion tolars in last year, financial consequences or savings to the poorest in that country would reach 5 billion, and the second year would be even more, etc. Of course, what's the point of not saying fair? I count that this is one of the nails on the baptism of such a government in the future, and I expect that that half of the citizens who live worse than the year before will be able to handle this matter properly in the next parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Because I am more open to applying for the word of the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Žnidaršič, please, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u4	Thank you very much. We are aware that this law would not solve all problems in the field of coordination or the rights of recipients of social transfers. It is true, however, that this would not be the only law required by appropriate amendments at the time of consideration. The government sends to Parliament laws that experience amendments to all articles. Generally extremely poorly prepared laws, however, we generously support such proposals, although they are not good, in the hope that things will be improved to an acceptable extent during the discussion of the law. As a rule, this does not happen, as a rule, amendments only run in the direction proposed by the Government after it has already tabled its proposal, which is deplorable and then Parliamentary groups or coalition parties have to change and complete this matter. This law has at least this good property to eliminate the injustices that have occurred to all recipients of transfers who have been secured for their rights and have paid contributions in this respect. I'm talking about pensioners' rights. Six rights are affected there, while the pensioner believes that this matter could be financially covered, the authorities have decided that it cannot be covered. And in this sense, I reiterate my opposition to the withdrawal of this law, whether in the debate we are prepared to settle the matter in a way that will ensure that all those who live in this country and all those who have paid their rights with work and contributions will be taken care of in the manner appropriate. This marriage was a mistake. We didn't support this marriage. That's when we said it was some sort of coalition fraud. And that's what we think today. Not to say that I feel that it will be sad if we spend some more time in this group, if this law is actually withdrawn or if we do not find a suitable solution for its completion. So again, I object to the withdrawal of the law. And it's right for the coalition to say why it's doing this. Probably because DeSUS was prevented from doing a good thing. But we don't want good deeds, we want solutions that concern citizens who are hard to live and who are much worse off than they were, precisely because of this law, which the coalition forced by fraud from the finance minister, who cited the lower financial consequences or less the impact on the recipients of transfers than it really was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, a very nice greeting at the beginning of this session! I hope that my speech will be more rational because I do not see the point of having pre-election talks on December 13th, which is nonsense. If this law, proposed by our colleagues, were to remove the validity of the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, this would indeed be the erosion of the social state and the slapping of those who live the worst in that country. For those who live the worst, we do have a real feeling and therefore we will do everything possible to amend the relevant law and possibly correct those items in the law on harmonisation of transfers that are indeed urgently needed for correction. With 9 votes, we will support the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda and, as we say, insist that something really rational be done in this area. Once again, if this law were to be adopted, it would actually be a step back in the sense of the social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote against the proposal to withdraw the law tabled by representatives of the DeSUS, namely the law on the termination of the law on the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. It is likely that someone will recall our debate on the adoption of the law when we firmly and eloquently opposed the bill. We have warned that it is unacceptable that they should be abolished, even if the necessary corrections are necessary, to abolish the rights that many recipients of social transfers have, to go into a situation in which it will be completely unclear when and under what conditions social transfers will be coordinated. And the weaknesses that have been since we had different bases for coordination have today led to our having, I think, for 26 months now, the inability to harmonise various social rights, with inflation increasing significantly more than the promises and promises of this government because of weaknesses in its own country and its functioning. And it's already growing over 5% today. It is not surprising, therefore, that most people claim to live worse than they did a year ago, and expect the government to be in line with the beautiful promises and beautiful words made by this group of citizens and citizens. We have warned in the debates that we are very interested in how the Government will act when it comes to a proposal for a law that is not ideal, but it has seriously warned that the National Assembly, and above all the government, must deal with the problem of people who are on the verge of real conditions and opportunities for life and their lives are getting worse every day because of inflation. And say, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that we will not have this debate and with our left hand, because on the last day the majority of the coalition has decided to do so, because the government does not have the ability and knowledge to come up with the appropriate proposals - this is unacceptable to us. [[...]] I don't care as an opposition party, what are the relations in the coalition, even though I don't like to hear that between myself, especially that it's political [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] questions are addressed in the National Assembly, but I am interested in the lives of people. [[...]] And, ladies and gentlemen, from the majority, please vote against your own proposal so that we can have a smart debate on the problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We will not support the proposal to withdraw this point in the Liberal Democracy Chamber. The arguments for this are a great deal to be found in the debate on the adoption of this law. We'd like to reiterate what led the government to adopt this law. It was run by simple mathematical calculations, budget savings. However, they did not pursue the fundamental objectives of ensuring social justice, how to ensure social sustainability, how to provide assistance to those most in need. The consequences of this law are very visible today. In the case of a recent examination of the budget, we can only follow what has been said since the adoption of this law. According to the government's assessment, "savings" this year, of course, I am talking in the term savings, €7.5 million, for 2008, these savings on these social transfers amount to €16 million and € some million in 2009 to €25 million. It is important to ask which inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia do we create these savings. The data provided by these ways of coordinating social transfers in the pension generation are very significant. This is precisely why the data show that in February 863 people have already lost a protective allowance, 892 have lost this supplement to again 892 pensioners, the poor 45,000 pensioners receive a lower protection allowance because of such a way, almost 8,000 of those who receive widow's pensions, and about 16,000 who receive a lower annual allowance for such coordination. That's what we're talking about, dear colleagues and colleagues. And given that we did not have a realistic analysis of this law, nor of the reasons for a different basis for coordination, we did not have realistic assessments of what the adoption of this law would mean for the very important number of inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, it is essential that we hold this debate. It is unreasonable to withdraw and close your eyes to adopt the law without any concrete consequences for the welfare of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia, of which you speak so much. Therefore, the only solution is to withdraw this proposal here or to vote [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group will vote in favour of the proposal we signed yesterday and propose to the National Assembly that we withdraw this bill from the agenda. This is a proposal for a law on the termination of the Transfer Coordination Act. We are aware, and we are convinced, that the data that are relevant shows that a significant number of people are severely deprived of this law. And we have to do it, and the country has to fix it. In the parliamentary group, we expect the Government, in cooperation with us, to prepare a proposal for amendments to this law. We expect this to happen in January, and we expect that we will then proceed with the proper procedure to adopt amendments to this law in order to correct those things that have so affected many. I'm not going to count the numbers because I don't have all of them, but one of the numbers says that there are about 43,000 people who receive pensions and a social security allowance, that these raises have long been disregarded and that they are severely reduced. The Group will support this proposal, which we have put forward, by really expecting us to bring this problem into Parliament in January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and for everyone's nice greeting! In our parliamentary group, we will support the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda, because we do not vote on the fact that we will not deal with the law, but we propose that we get some time in this way, that these solutions, which are in the existing law, be examined, that the consequences be examined more carefully, and that we should try to correct those matters that actually mean deterioration. The amendment of this law can also result in new consequences, new injustices in other areas, as proposed. And I don't think there's any need to fix this right now on the nose, even in accordance with the agreement that the coalition has made to do it in some other way. If this law is actually adopted in the form proposed, then many ways of coordinating transfers in many areas will change and then the whole spectrum of valorisation of transfers will be introduced in different ways, with the starting wages, then the lowest wages, with the lowest pension base, etc. We aim to ensure that the system in the field of transfers works transparently to address certain weaknesses. This government and this coalition have a good relationship with this, we want to fix these things, as we corrected them in the tax areas when we introduced certain changes for the taxpayers, for the companies. We are thus prepared in this area to settle all those things that have proved to be worse. I don't think the delay in considering the law for a month is so problematic, so critical that it would require such fateful and so difficult words. Let us take time, study things and then, on the basis of the data that will be and the proposals that will be made, we can also make a rational decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u15	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will say, the first man of the coalition in this House has said that we will take our time. I'm asking if it's true! We'll take time and stretch another month, two months, three months, a large number of people, those who live on the brink of poverty. 382 euros, as much as the minimum wage, forgive me if I've missed a dime. €382 is the amount received by a large number of families in our country. The law adopted by this Government, the Slovenian National Party, at that time strongly opposed the adoption of the law. But this law says that, and I will only give an example for family assistants, who are also bound by this law, when the minimum wage has increased by €11, their salary has not increased because it is bound by the law on the coordination of social transfers and will be valorised in the second year, but in the back. But do you know what 11 euros means to such a family? I believe that the vast majority of you in this House with a smile on your face swings and says, "Yes, we still have time to hurry." I say they're government ugly games, government coalitions. And when someone said before me that if we adopt the law proposed by the DeSUS Group, we will cause injustice in other areas. I ask in what areas. In the areas of EU Presidency, because the government will not have that much money left to rent expensive cars or to renovate, I don't know, many buildings in the city centre. Because the government is not going to be able to do such a luxury shit in front of EU gentlemen. Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is ugly to save in the social field in the area of those people who are most at risk. 12% of the people in our country live below the poverty line. 45% of pensioners in our country do not reach minimum wages or minimum standards. Is that not enough information for you to say, "Yes, perhaps it would be wise to listen to those who still care about the social situation in our country, who don't care about whether our citizens and citizens will die on their rations so that the President of the Government can bow to the EU." I will not support this motion to withdraw because it is unfair to our people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u17	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We therefore decide on the proposal to withdraw that proposal from the agenda. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 26. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. In doing so, I inform you that after the agreement to attend college, due to the release of Monday's time, from Friday three points, 2, 3 and 10 will be transferred to Monday. It was the college's wish to make Friday shorter. In this sense, you will also receive a new timetable on the bench. We are now moving to a full vote on the agenda, because I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting and by an amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the agenda of the 34th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Andrei Vizjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u18	Dear Members and Members of Parliament, the President! The proposed amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act are a complement to the existing system of consumer legal protection and are due to the requirements already in place and to the newly adopted legislation of the European Union in certain important areas such as tourism services, unfair contractual conditions and the use of language in the operations of businesses with consumers. The largest set of amendments to the law concerns the provision of administrative protection or market surveillance in the field of tourist arrangements - these are organised trips and trips - and unfair contractual conditions. The European Union Directive governing tourist arrangements has been adopted a long time ago, with some inconsistencies that are now being addressed, mainly through the bond law and in the smaller part of the law promoting the development of tourism. Since the main relevant provisions contained in the bond law provide for only judicial protection in cases of legal infringements, this proposed novelty, which is before us, also protects consumers with an administrative principle and more effective protection. This also avoids long-term and expensive judicial proceedings. A higher level of consumer protection is ensured, which is a weaker market participant. In this way, inspection services will be able to sanction infringements of market operators, as in the case of tourist arrangements, within the framework of market surveillance or administrative control. The following set of amendments concerns the use of language in the business of businesses with consumers in general business. The area of use of language in general business of companies which include forms of communication with consumers and are not specifically regulated by the Consumer Protection Act is governed by the provision of the first sentence, the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Act, which requires companies to operate with consumers in the Slovenian language, in an area where the Hungarian and Italian national communities live, as well as in the language of the national communities. This provision has also been the subject of some constitutional assessments in recent years. Both constitutional assessments state that the provision is not contrary to the Slovenian Constitution. The scope of use of the language in the field of product labelling is governed by the third, fourth and fifth sentences of Article 3, paragraph 3, where we are now introducing a term for the use of a language which can be understood in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. A change is necessary in order to comply with the requirements of European Union legislation, in particular with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Community. It is the regulation of the so-called non-harmonised area, i.e. the areas of labelling and advertising of broad-expenditure products. This does not apply to specific directives, but to Member States acting in accordance with the case-law of the Courts of Justice of the European Community, which is a key consideration of Articles 28 and 29 of the Treaty on European Union. In doing so, it is worth stressing that the Consumer Protection Act continues to require economic operators to continue to use Slovenian language in the sale and marketing of products. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , whenever necessary for consumer safety, as the mandatory use of the Slovenian language in the instructions for use and the guarantee sheet for the smooth operation of the product is still maintained. [[...]] The proposed regulation is also without prejudice to a harmonised area such as food, medicines - this is subject to the provisions of the sectoral laws governing the use of the national language, even [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] where she's been ordered. [[...]] The last set of proposed changes, however, interferes with the field of advertising and we are essentially preventing a double regulation here. Respected, the proposed amendment follows, above all, the requirements of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u19	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Vice-President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. The Consumer Protection Act or its amendments and additions have been drafted and proposed for consideration by the Government or the Ministry. The Committee discussed this as a parent working body and discussed the material it had received, i.e. the draft law, discussed the report of the Commission on National Communities, which also drafted one amendment, and the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposals for amendments were under discussion, namely those made by the coalition parliamentary groups on the basis of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission's proposal for nationality, the proposal of the Zares Group, the Chamber of Commerce and the proposals of the Slovenian Consumers' Union. The applicant explained in the introduction what changes and what essential elements of this amendment and the addition are and now do not show repetition. Let me say that the Committee discussed and supported the amendments, namely the coalitions, the amendments of the Zares Group, did not support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities or the Commission for National Communities, because it judged that there might be a conflict with respect to the requirements of the European Free Trade Regulation, but also responded to the three interventions by the representative of the Slovenian Consumers' Association at paragraphs 15, 17 and 19 which refer to the time limits for withdrawals from the Treaty, all concerned the area of tourism, the proposal regarding the possibility of return of money or the adoption of a replacement tourist arrangement and the proposal concerning the right to appeal, not only in cases where the economic, but also other consumer interests were at stake. An amendment to Article 24 was adopted, which deals with the issue of a sub-legislative regulation, and Article 24a was added, which repeals the rules governing it so far. The Committee adopted all the articles, adopted all the proposals for an amendment, with the exception of the proposal by the Commission for National Communities, and proposed to the National Assembly that such a proposal should be adopted and supplemented by the Consumer Protection Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u21	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u22	Your Honors are here! In its introduction, the Minister gave the floor to the effect that the law follows the European Union's requests in its content. Three years ago, on 26 November 2004, we introduced a law with the same title in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party with the first signed Victory of Jelinčič. At that time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia said no, the law cannot be supported by reason of the vague content of the reply of the Constitutional Court. Today, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia fully follows the demands of the European Union under its law. I would like to point out that it is sad that the Consumer Protection Act is being supplemented solely because, years ago, the European Parliament and the European Council adopted instructions to domestic legislators. From this title, I would like to point out the two shortcomings of the law in its content. For the first time, this law does not promote consumer protection, as consumer protection is, at least in our opinion, necessary to follow through a large number of laws that touch on issues and consumer protection. You probably all remember the debate on the trade law, where the consumer even attacked. The idea is that there will no longer be professional support from employees in the shopping centres, as so-called employment standards have been reduced and thus for successful communication with consumers. On the other hand, it is necessary to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of its law, at least after our assessment, continues to harm economic operators operating in the area of bilinguality or better said in the field of ethnic minorities. With regard to this decision, or with regard to a decision of the Constitutional Court, an initiative or claim, even Petrol and Mercator complained of the unnecessary costs they have in their operations and in their communication with potential consumers in those areas. From this title, I must tell you that we do not accept the content of this law in the Slovenian National Party and that it makes much more sense for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt in its Article 2 the text of the proposed law by the Slovenian National Party in Article 1 where it says: "The company must operate with consumers in the Slovenian language. In an area where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live indigenously, the language of the national community may also be used in addition to the Slovenian language." We believe that in the entire area of the Republic of Slovenia, the mandatory use of Slovenian language and the possibility of an alternative in an area where they house the nationalities of the community in their own language is sufficient. However, it is not necessary, according to our assessment, to contribute to the protection of consumer protection, rather to the unnecessary costs of individual companies, particularly when we are talking about a region, a landscape or an area that has already been so affected. Therefore, from this title, it seems to us that it would be far more reasonable for the Minister of the Economy to enforce such legal solutions as would attract economic operators and development to these places, not to be pushed through such novelties as are before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u24	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. We accept the amendments and additions to the consumer protection law in the DeSUS Group in favour, and we will therefore support this proposal. We will also support the government's position on the only amendment tabled today. Otherwise, there were no candidates for this amendment on the parent’s working body to further elaborate the amendment itself. And if this happens at a meeting of the National Assembly, of course, we will listen to it and decide on our support or support. Otherwise, it is simply about regulating a very large area, because business processes, providers and consumers are distributed around the world as a special global network. Within this network, as mentioned earlier today, the consumer is the one who is less powerful in defending his interests. Therefore, it is our view that consumer protection is necessary, not only on domestic soil, but everywhere in the world, where it is exposed to various pressures, invitations, information, information and so on. We know that there is an increasing violation of business customs, business standards, we know that there is a lot of misleading advertising, that there is a lot of unfulfilled promise, that there are a lot of unfair business practices, and that is why individual laws in this area are being adopted, which are actually complementary to the law that we are talking about today. The experience of such infringements is both domestic and foreign, and it is therefore appropriate that, as far as possible, Directives of the European Union are implemented, the European Council Regulation in order to adapt domestic, domestic and domestic legislation accordingly. It is also necessary to adequately support everything with the control authorities, with inspection supervision, which is not now provided in all areas. There is also a need to ensure cross-border cooperation and prevention of infringements and appropriate sanctions where such violations occur. This control and regulation of this area must be clear so that it is clear to all what is going on. In the end, however, it must also be effective in any case of consumer protection where such protection is justified. The consumer must not be left to himself because he is, in effect, a helpless party. It cannot be left to the strong power of suppliers, which cannot be measured, and it cannot be left to the mere possibility of litigation, since it is usually too long for him, too much effort is needed and costs may be very high. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we support the tightening of administrative control, appropriate sanctions, the extension of inspections to areas where this has not yet been possible, and the strengthening of the functioning of the supervisory authorities. The bill can contribute to better consumer protection if properly implemented and therefore the DeSUS Group fully supports it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Roberto Battelli will present the position of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u26	Mr. President! This is a lack of clarity as regards Article 3. What is proposed is also a school example of how to avoid the implementation of laws and the movement of materiel to a lower level that does not go through the legislative process and which can only be dealt with through the courts. The Law on the ratification of the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages in relation to economic and social activities provides that States Parties undertake to avoid any prohibitions or restrictions on the use of regional or minority languages, in particular in professional documentation such as the instructions for the use of products or equipment. This means that if it can be in the Slovenian language, it can also be in the language of the national communities. That's all this is about. What appears on the labels in the Slovenian language can also be found in Italian or Hungarian. The cost of this is zero, as the translation of those four, five keywords that denote products and allow them to be identified by the consumer or buyer does not cost both languages, perhaps 10 euros. For both languages. And this, if we translate these 10 euros into the entire contingent of the product, this is a millionth of a contribution to what this product costs. And everything else is mere conjecture. This same charter, which has been in force since 2000 in the Republic of Slovenia, says that special safety instructions must be drawn up in regional or minority languages. If we leave this to the rules, we may have an example in the interpretation of Article 15 concerning the same substance of the law on the public use of Slovenian where, in Article 2, this rule does not say: "The necessary information referred to in Article 15, paragraph 1, of the law means information about products or services which are legally binding in the labelling of products." But Article 3 says: "The information in the previous article must be in the Slovenian language." But not in both languages that are official in areas where national communities live. This also means that these two languages are somehow getting away from the concept of public use in areas where the indigenous communities live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u28	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with a team! The Consumer Protection Act, which we have before us, was last amended and completed in 2004. Administrative action or criminal sanctions under the applicable consumer protection law are not possible in the field of unfair contractual terms. In the field of package travel and organised consumer holidays, only judicial protection has been provided so far. This proposal establishes administrative supervision, as provided for by the European Community Regulation on cooperation in the field of consumer protection, for the areas governed by Directive 90/314 of the European Community on package travel, organised holidays and excursions and Directive 93/13 of the European Community on unfair conditions in consumer contracts. At the same time, inconsistencies in the transposition of Directive 2002/65 of the European Community on distance marketing of financial services and Directive 98/27 of the European Community on leave of action for the protection of consumer interests are being addressed. The second part of the amendment relates to compliance with the already adopted Consumer Protection Act against Unfair Business Practices, which means the transposition of Directive 2005/29 of the European Community of 11.5.2205 and which begins to apply with 1 December 2007, is already in force. Amendments and additions abolish dual consumer protection arrangements against misleading advertising while establishing a hierarchical relationship between the Consumer Protection Act, unfair business practices and the Consumer Protection Act in this area. The third part of this amendment is related to the use of language in the business of businesses with consumers. A transitional period shall be set for adapting undertakings to new operating conditions resulting from the adoption of a general provision imposing on undertakings in mixed areas also the use of the language of the national communities, thereby implementing the Constitutional Court decision of 20.4.2006. In addition, it is proposed to amend the provisions of the law governing the use of language in the labelling and advertising of goods. All changes are directed towards greater administrative security for consumers and better transparency of business, and we support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u29	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u30	Thank you for your word and good day to all who are in the Hall of the National Assembly today. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are very pleased that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has finally decided to make it easier to protect consumers' rights in the area of unfair contractual conditions, where the consumer has so far been able to achieve his right only through a lawsuit before a court of law, and now the Consumer Protection Act will also introduce the possibility of administrative supervision and sanctions based on this law. Even worse, we currently have regulated consumer protection in the area of package travel and organised holidays, where the area is regulated only by the provisions of the bond code and the affected buyer leaves the entire area to the legal mill, which we know how long they have been grinding with us. That is why it is so much more welcome that we will also bring a Council of Europe directive into this area and introduce a consumer protection law and allow administrative supervision and, of course, also sanctions that are relatively high, and we believe that they are justifiably high. According to all the information that appears in the media, we know that there is quite a number of violations in both areas. Of course, it is also finally a harmonised consumer protection law with the Consumer Protection Directive against misleading advertising, which has become a common practice in Slovenia. For us in the Social Democrats Group, it is particularly important that this amendment also solves the issue of the use of the Slovenian language and the language of both nationalities on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court last year, which decided to require the first paragraph of Article 2 of the Consumer Protection Act, that the company should operate with consumers in ethnically mixed areas in Hungarian or Italian as well, without prejudice to the free economic initiative, and provides that an adjustment period should be laid down, which is also introduced in Article 24 of the Act. However, we are not and cannot be satisfied with the amendment to Article 2, paragraph 1, where the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, removes some of the judgments of the European Court of Justice and reduces the language of consumer information in Slovenia on the characteristics, sales conditions, use and destination of the product in a language which, I quote, "to consumers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia can be understood". Not only has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agreed that consumers who understand and speak only in Italian or Hungarian will not be informed in their own understandable language, it has also agreed that our official language and most of our nationals are also replaced by a "consumer of an understandable language". Who says it's definitely Slovenian, Hungarian or Italian? Is the Government convinced that manufacturers selling their products in Czech, Slovak, Polish, say, on the Austrian market will consider that these languages are not generally understood by customers in Slovenia? Is she sure that the instructions written in the languages of other Slavonic nations, such as Polish, Slovak or Czech, will be considered by the manufacturer to be Polish, Slovak, and Czech? And who says that the manufacturer from France, Denmark, Germany, Great Britain will understand or know that Slovenians or Slovenian citizens do not understand Polish, Slovak or Czech? And that guidance, which also provides consumer safety, will often be particularly about cleaning, cosmetic products and so on, that they will know what is the safe use of these products. That is why, of course, we support the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of National Communities, which allows the consumer to be well informed and to be safe in the use of the products he will receive on the Slovenian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u31	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u32	Nice greetings to all present! In the LDS, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the consumer protection law proposing an administrative procedure in the field of organised package travel in the field of unfair contractual terms. These are the two issues for which we estimate that this law improves and that also significantly strengthens the situation of consumers, to whom only judicial protection has been available in these areas so far. This is linked, as a rule, to long-term and unreachable procedures for the consumer. In this way, the inspection services will be able to sanction a number of cases of market infringements already under market surveillance. We are aware that in protecting consumers we need to find the right balance so that it will not be good if we Americanize to this extent, that if someone burns on hot chocolate, a few days can put on the brink of collapse a company that has not warned him that chocolate is hot. On the other hand, the law must ensure that consumers are not deceived, that there will be a competitive fight on the fair market, and that they will indeed prevail over those competitive advantages, so that consumers can and will be assured that what they promise is at least to a large extent true. As they estimate that these changes do not lead to either extreme, but they are in this central area, so on the one hand they provide adequate consumer safety and, on the other hand, they continue to ensure competitiveness or exclude the previously mentioned possibilities for a society to be in trouble because of such banality, this part of the law seems fine to us. The law also provides for a six-month transitional period for adapting companies to new operating conditions resulting from the amendment of Article 2, which refers to the use of the Slovenian language and the language of both nationalities. Here, of course, we stress the importance of keeping the Slovenian language in the official language and also in business, and also in all forms of communication with consumers, regardless of the fact that the market within the EU is open, regardless of the fact that, of course, the free movement of goods can be offered to our customers by other providers, they must provide such communication, which will not be misleading and, above all, it will be understandable that consumers will be able to obtain information in the Slovenian language. I also agree, of course, with the need to ensure rights for them in the area of nationalities, but it is also here to be noted that the difference between who is a member of a national community or a member of a national community is the language of this national community. It is true that some of these things are interpreted differently. If there is a condition for someone to master, say, Italian, it cannot yet be a condition for employment or something that is really Italian or Hungarian. In the LDS, however, we believe that the changes to this law make sense in the part that I have mentioned and we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by fellow Member Martin Mikolič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u34	Well-known, distinguished vice president, minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The new Consumer Protection Act introduces some significant improvements to the existing law, which are particularly important for consumers in the field of tourism. The amendment of the law introduces new administrative protection in the field of organised package travel, which is very important for users of these services, as we know that more and more Slovenians are deciding to use such services. Administrative protection in the field of unfair contractual conditions is also introduced. So far, consumers have only had judicial protection available in these areas, which, as you know, is linked to long-term procedures, which also cost the consumer a lot of money. This amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, however, will allow inspection services to sanction a number of cases of market infringements already under market surveillance. Another important area which is improving with the proposed amendment concerns the use of language in the field of labelling and advertising. The amendment of the law removes restrictions that may indirectly or directly impede the free movement of goods and services by economic operators on the common market. The proposed solution ensures a high level of consumer protection while respecting the principles of protection of competition, equality from law and free economic initiative, which we have always advocated in New Slovenia. Slovenia has already committed itself to align the use of language in the non-harmonised field in the pre-accession negotiations on the free movement of goods and services with the acquis. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the proposal for a amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, because it will make business easier, and at the same time it will be more user-friendly, so we will also support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My colleague Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Consumer protection is one of the most sensitive and demanding areas. We are all in one way or another every day as a consumer. I hope it's already happened to everyone that he didn't get a promise for what he paid. In particular, there is a particular confusion in the area of tourism. We are talking about so-called purchases, for which many Slovenians or Slovenes save throughout the year or even take credit. Holidays and trips in general become a status symbol, so the matter is so much more pressing if we do not get what we promised for the paid. We are pleased with the Slovenian People's Party that this issue is finally included in this bill. This is in line with the European directives governing unfair business practices, such as misleading advertising, unfair contractual terms and, last but not least, the area of package travel and organised holidays governed by a non-administrative bond code. Thus, this bill proposes the introduction of administrative protection in this area, which is a major gain for all consumers who have had the opportunity to appeal so far, but the longevity of the procedures of many has prevented them from doing so. The consumer will thus be more protected and able to exercise more rights than now. Thus, under the Directive of the European Union, the consumer has the right to transfer the travel reservation to another consumer, which is a particularly stressful act in practice, also a protected case of insolvency, and the Directive protects the consumer in particular in the field of advertising. In doing so, it is necessary to highlight misleading advertising, which today is also a constant. Many times different brochures, catalogues and brochures are completely unprofessional and misleading, they paint an idyllic image of the consumer and the reality is completely different. In the Slovenian People's Party, we strongly condemn this issue and support the legal regulation of this issue. 57.b. Article 57 of the bill provides that the catalogue must be legible and must contain accurate evaluation data. We also support the fact that in the proposal of the law, the consumer is protected against an unjustified increase in the price of travel and that in the event of abuse, it may impose a proportionate reduction in prices even after the end of the journey. A lot of controversy has also been sparked by an article that stipulates that a business with consumers must operate in the Slovenian language, in an area where national minorities live, as well as in the language of the national community. Companies will continue to be obliged to provide consumers with instructions for use in the guarantee paper in the Slovenian language. As I have already said, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are aware of the current situation of consumers and the will of traders and other service providers, and we believe that good regulation is a necessity and that this bill provides for some progress and guarantees consumer rights, including in some other areas where they have not been adequately regulated so far. So there's no reason not to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. And we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. The amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Community Group is dated 12.12.2007 and will be discussed. I ask for statements from Members and representatives of the Government who wish to discuss this amendment. Member Roberto Battelli has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The previous mandate was a mandate that paid great attention to the protection of Slovenian and, in fact, the whole story began, because practically every law had such a diction that a certain thing must be in Slovenian language. This could have helped to protect the Slovenian language, but it put both national communities living autonomously in Slovenia in a strange position. Thus, the effect of this philosophy was to put a certain pressure on the use of minority languages. This led to a certain debate, which we have also initiated by the representatives of the national communities themselves, and we have had to prove that, for example, in our printed media they are able to advertise in the language of these printed media, i.e. in the Italian and Hungarian languages. And then I also showed as an example in this Chamber a copy of the Primorski dižnik, where ads are in the Slovenian language, because if you showed something else, it would probably not be a problem; but it was a seemingly just problem that would have been presented to us if everything were to be in the Slovenian language. Well, then the consumer protection law, which now appears as the first sentence of Article 3, appeared in itself, directly by the then government. Petrol and Mercator, who have the power of the country itself in Slovenia - two such companies - immediately complained to the Constitutional Court. At the same time, we, I don't know why, but me and some of my colleagues, members and representatives of the national communities, have been called as some kind of defense before these big companies, if that's what we're thinking right now. And then it seemed as if all companies had to turn around in some way as gloves to be able to operate or communicate in the field of consumer protection in the languages of the national communities, which, we know, are official in certain areas of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, there was a philosophy that inspired the matter to the point that it had become unrealistic instead of focusing on what was actually consumer protection when purchasing a product, for example. As the European Charter on Minority or Regional Languages says, which is neither a committee nor a committee, no one quoted it as if it were not an integral part of the internal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Nowhere comes forward, and this is again this aspect of how I would say where the protection of national communities, so human rights, is moving into the area of trade and some economic logic that says: if it costs me one more tolar, I will not do it, and certainly, it limits me. This is this philosophy, which then clings to the inflatability of a particular area to the point where a particular matter must become impossible in practice. It is, however, feasible as far as Slovenian is concerned. In short, I don't know how the Minister will draw up his rules. What Article 3 currently says is an absolute mystery about its implementation. And I don't know what criteria will then be used to draw up the rulebook or what criteria will be used: such that only Slovenian will be protected. Because it is so and so self-evident for us to know Slovenian, in order to stay in Slovenia - which I do not object to - but this notion means that the languages of the national communities are not necessary for survival in the Republic of Slovenia for members of these national communities. Despite the commitment of the State Administration to comply with Article 11 of the Constitution and the remaining administration. But official languages become official because they are in public use; because they are in public use then they have the rank of official language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to receive the reply of the Minister of Economy, whether in this country, the Republic of Slovenia, which is a full member of the European Union, the decision of the Constitutional Court, which said that it requires companies to communicate with their consumers in Slovenian or Hungarian and Italian in areas where both national communities are present, that this is not a restriction on the free economic initiative. Then we move on - and said that the transitional period must be all good and right, because of these two languages, not because of the Slovenian language - but then we move on and change this same article in the fourth sentence of this paragraph and say that the sellers, producers, only those who communicate with consumers, can communicate in everything - as it is, I have already slightly forgotten the dictatorship - "all can be understood language or most understood language." Why do I ask that? In fact, in the same paragraph of the same article, we first use the list of three official languages in our country and then, suddenly, because of some of the three judgments of the European Court, which are not based on European legislation, but are judgments that want to introduce amendments to European legislation - we know how the European Court is carrying out its own judicial scratch. The European Court of Justice adopts its own judgments in such a way that they do not have a legal basis in European legislation at all, but in essence want to create new European legislation. Therefore, I think that members wishing to safeguard the interests of their national identity, their nationality, their autonomy in certain areas should require the European Union to draw up a directive that will prevent me from being required to use the official languages we have in the Constitution within our country. We have three official languages and we cannot talk about some imaginary, universally understandable language. Because what I said on behalf of the Group of Members, I am sure it is true. If one, now I will just say it at home, the Estonian company will produce some cleaning and write a instructions in Polish, Slovak and Czech, and sell it in Slovenia - who will understand that instructions at all?Oh, my God! So we cannot give up on such demands of the European Court of Justice, but we must take an active role and safeguard our national interests. So here, I think, the European Union cannot intervene and say that this is a restriction on the free movement of goods and services, because that is not true! Because if our Constitutional Court has said that, in the first sentence, the first paragraph of the directive does not restrict the free economic initiative, then it does not mean that the dictatorship in the fourth sentence of this paragraph does. Indeed, the free movement of goods is one of the expressions of a free enterprise initiative. And for this reason, I ask you kindly, Minister, if you, however, answer me and all of us whether our country is responsible, because we have not signed a declaration under pre-accession conditions that we will use such a dictatorship on the use of Slovenian language in our national territory. We didn't sign this. I don't believe it, and if I mean it wrong, please show me when and how we signed it. Then we will also ask ourselves how it is possible for a country to enter the European Union by kneeling before the demands that the official languages in Slovenia are not used in the way that this would be necessary after the stop. Since the official language is not only because it is used in administrative units but in courts, it is an official language because it is widely used in the public, both Slovenian and Italian and Hungarian. For this reason, I think that this amendment, I warn you, this amendment of both nationalities must be supported, or we will come to our interests of protection of the Slovenian language very far.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The debate shall also include the Minister. Minister Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u42	Dear Members and Members! First of all, there seems to be a lot of misunderstanding about this proposal. First of all, we need to separate four terms. There's the business. We keep business in Slovenian and in minority language. This is the first part of this amended Article 2 or Article 3 of the novel. We maintain business in the Slovenian language and in the language of both nationalities. We keep all the instructions, all the guarantee sheets, and please, the instructions, we don't even tange them with this novel. Instructions for use, guarantee sheets must be in Slovenian language, etc. But this novel doesn't touch that. So don't talk here about some instructions in Estonian, etc., as you mentioned. So, the business and the instructions, the guarantee sheets are the way they were. We are talking about changes in labelling and advertising. This results in the continuation of Article 2 or Article 5. And the amendment does not apply at all to Article 5. That's very interesting. Thus, advertising must be an understandable language in the consumer. The amendment applies only to labelling. And so far it has been written that the product must be marked in the Slovenian language or consumer with an understandable language. This is an existing solution. So there are no minority languages so far in this solution. They're gone. The current law, I can read it to you, in this article says that it must be said that "in the labelling of products, the Slovenian language must provide the consumer with the necessary information on the characteristics, conditions" and so on. We are adding a superstandard language to the consumer, which is clearly Hungarian and Italian in the minority area. It is said that we are going against minorities in this case, because we are defining that crucial - a language that can be understood by the consumer. And believe me, the consumer can understand the language in Slovenia is not Estonian, it is not Polish, it is not Slovak, it is not Czech, it is not French, it is German and so on. It is certainly Slovenian, and certainly it is Italian and Hungarian in areas where indigenous peoples live. And that's what we're dealing with. And please - I don't know how to be more clear, we're only talking about labelling and advertising, but obviously the amendment doesn't tange out advertising at all, it just tanges labelling on products. And here, once again, we are installing a superstandard according to the existing solution - that is to say, instead of Slovenian, we introduce the term "in the consumer of an understandable language". And I don't think anyone in this room needs to be convinced that this is Slovenian in the territory of Slovenia, and even more, where there is also Italian and Hungarian where indigenous peoples live in large numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Given that there's still a desire for a debate, I'm opening up a new application circuit. Here you go, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself will not support the amendment to Article 3 which we are talking about and proposed by my colleague Battelli. The reasons for this are something, as well as the article in the law itself, as proposed by the Government, I think that the article we proposed in the Slovenian National Party in 2004 was more acceptable. For we have written that another language and some other symbols, generally understandable symbols, can be used, while you say, "and also in the language of the national community". This information must be in a language which can be understood by consumers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It seems to me that the diction of the article, as proposed in the Slovenian National Party at the time, and you have easily rejected it by the coalition MPs, was much more appropriate. The reason, the main reason, you correct me, Mr. Secretary, if I say anything wrong, is reciprocity. Why the same does not happen to Slovenia's minority in Italy, Slovenia's minority in Austria, Slovenia's minority in Hungary and, last but not least, well, I will leave Croatia here. Why we go Slovenians always step forward, and we know we will not get feedback and feedback "feed-back" from the other side. I am a member of the Commission for Slovenians in place, and I must say that we have been in the Italian Parliament several times, where Members and also the President of their Commission could not believe that this is as orderly in Slovenia as it is. When we took them on a field trip, they were surprised that they were really so close to our bilingual table, while we were going across the border to Italy, we could see that this was very poorly arranged, let alone that the Slovenian language appeared on products sold in these areas. And why not within the EU, not least Italy and Austria and Slovenia are EU members, we do not agree on this reciprocity. Not to mention how difficult it is for individual companies to do business. This isn't just about making one letter or one sticker. This is about the whole range of products, the whole spectrum of letters and the whole spectrum of stickers that someone has to make, so that we can satisfy someone who has expressed such a wish, while on the other hand we do not receive Slovenians. I think it's some kind of overkill, some stupid expense for this country. It seems to me that if the lecture were "may" it is the free will of every manufacturer, whether it will or not. And even if I touch Article 3, which says that the company must operate with consumers in the Slovenian language or where the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities are also in the language of the national community. Tell me when it comes to very large migrations of workers in Slovenia due to, I will say, the situation in our country. And someone goes with pleasure from Styria to work in Prekmurje if they get a job there. Tell me if it's the right thing to do, and it's considered a condition, and now I'm going to cariculate, at one of Petrol's gas stations in Lendava, it requires Hungarian language knowledge. I don't think so. It goes, in my opinion, do, I'll say, in the invitation to even some kind of discrimination of personnel. A man goes to work where he gets it. And if this is not required for someone, I will say, in Maribor at Petrol's gas station, then it is absurd to ask for the same story or knowledge of a foreign language, especially Hungarian, because we know that in our primary schools in Slovenia we do not learn, to demand this knowledge if we want to work there or vice versa in the Italian area. It's some kind of optional knowledge. I will say, those who come from Maribor, central Slovenia, Dolenjska or Gorenjska. It seems to me that this article is too much and again, just as most of the things that this government proposes in its laws are lifeless. It cannot and must not live in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Bredo Pecan to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I would like to join Mr Zagorec myself that perhaps the problem is that he mentions the amendment, especially the Hungarian and Italian languages. However, I cannot believe that I would agree to replace the term or concept of Slovenian with the concept of, as it already says, "you can understand, most can understand a language" or "you can understand a language in Slovenia." In fact, I agree with this, Mr Minister, that it can be an understandable Slovenian language for us, that we consider it that way and that it is the only language that can be understood by most people in Slovenia. I can understand and accept that. However, you need to know that this refers to very, very many products coming from imports, other than from some common parastata, the European Union, but it is still for us some type of imports, and that when it comes to the shelves a product that will write a instructions for use in ten languages, here I am not talking about the washing machine but about the mixer, I am talking about the instructions for baking powder, it belongs to the product label because it writes the purpose, use and so on. This is the designation of the product - yes, of course! You cannot talk about treating baking powder or washing powder the same way. When we had this on the Nationality Commission, you explained that food products do not belong in the same category as technical products and that, therefore, what is written on the food product is treated as a product designation. I ask you if it will be written in 10 languages on the washing powder, among which there will be no Slovenian, Italian and Hungarian - what will the market inspection do? That's what I'm asking now. There will be no Slovenian, Hungarian, Italian because there will be 10 languages, among which there will be at least three Slavic languages, perhaps even Croatian and Serbian, without offense, because now there will be no more Serbian language, and all those who will think about exporting it to Slovenia will say, "Yes, because these are Slovenians, these are Slavs, they understand why we would be translating into Slovenia!" Not to speak Hungarian or Italian! That is why I believe that this dictatorship is wrong and that the Ministry of Economy and our country has kneeled before the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u47	Thank you very much. But there's a minister who's got the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u48	Just for a little while. The baking powder was mentioned. This is a harmonised area, this is mandatory, the use of Slovenian language and I have said this in the introductions. That's the first thing. The second thing is a market inspection, in which case, if it were not for baking powder, but for something that is not harmonised, will act, because if it is not in Slovenian, it is for most consumers a language that is not comprehensible. This is clear, and please, if this is not clear to you, let me tell you that this is clear and that a market inspection would take action in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Member Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues of the Member of Parliament and Members of the Secretary-General. I think it is clear to us all who are sitting here that the language in the field of the Republic of Slovenia is understandable. So those of you who say something else are just doing it to get some point in minorities. The advantage of the minority is, of course, Italian and Hungarian, that they also understand Slovenian in addition to their own language, Italian and Hungarian. It's a minority advantage. I do not think there is a representative of a minority in this country who does not know or understand the Slovenian language. That's the advantage. I am not so worried that in neighbouring Hungary and Austria they do not care about minorities as much as Slovenia. That's not what I'm worried about. We're just a more advanced country than they are in this area, where there's still a lot of work to be done. It also applies to Italy, not just Austria. As far as what some and what this amendment proposes is concerned. I was on the Commission for National Communities and listened to this debate. So there is also a need to understand some principle of rationality. Do you imagine that some of our producers will have to mark some of the products - previously said baking powder, a purely small product - in the area of Hungarian national community in Hungarian, it is said, they will have to write Hungarian and Italian for the Italian minority on a few 2,000 of these products. Yeah, how much is that gonna cost?Oh, my God! Are you wondering? On the other hand, you criticize inflation and we all know that food has contributed significantly to inflation. At the same time, because of this, of course, for producers of high costs, he will be able to give up and say, "Then we will not sell my product in these areas because it costs me so much and so much." Does that mean what we've accomplished with this?Oh, my God! On the one hand, reduced supply, on the other hand, high costs. I'm not an economist, I'm not an economist, but I think it's a determination of how it affects the economy of business itself. Do you think someone's gonna write it for free so they don't charge? If he has to give one more text, then whoever understands Slovenian as much as he does, he can read it in his mother tongue at the same time, either it is Hungarian, Italian. So, from this I wanted to conclude and say that I don't support such an "ad hoc" solution as it was written here in this amendment. I can't support her, because we're going to get her back on that kind of amendment. Parliament is then the one who has accepted this, that the article has irritated someone or, as I said earlier, that it will not be on the shelf because of the more expensive price. And what would that accomplish? It's practically the opposite of what some people want. To conclude, I will not support this amendment. I understand Mr Battelli, who advocates this because he represents his national community and must do something in this direction, but I do not understand Mrs Pecanova, who has said the same thing on the Commission for National Communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Since I can see there's still a desire for a debate, I'm opening up a re-appealing circle. Here you go. We have four panellists. However, Member Milneko Ziherl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I can listen to this debate so far. I would somehow agree with some statement by Mr Mrkaic, who once stated that 80% of people in Slovenia are functionally illiterate. How else should I explain when they need instructions for the use of washing and baking powder? You would also understand that you need instructions for the use of a technical product that we receive in ten languages. I usually tear eight languages away immediately, because otherwise I'd have a bunch of them at home for a blender, a meat cutter, etc. and keep only English and German, which I understand. The powder also falls under the Law on Chemicals among hazardous chemicals, as it must bear the label irritable and harmful to health and is therefore justified for each consumer to require a safety data sheet when first placed on the market or at any time later. Finally, I would mention if on every product, i.e. on a small baking powder, a whole bunch of paper - how much paper will there be for the great joy and expense of traders? Laundry powder, baking powder has been used at least a thousand times by most consumers and I hope it is correct. Maybe she was the only one who OD'd. Paper ecology. I'm gonna go back to paper ecology. We use too much paper for unnecessary things, because right now there is a conference on the environment in Bali and I would like to point out that it is paper production, that is cutting forests, that has a negative impact on climate change. Finally, I would like to use the conclusion of the Parkins Act, which speaks of the fact that as banal as possible is the topic, the longer the debate is. It is mentioned that the debate on nuclear power was held for 5 minutes because no one was hoping to report on the debate, and the debate on cycling was half an hour because some already knew something about it, but the debate on coffee cooking at the workplace took place for two hours because everyone knew something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u53	Thank you very much. However, the word is given by the Member of the Council of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u54	Thanks again for saying that. Dear President! I am glad that when we talk about the Slovenian language, we also find a little sense of humor, as my predecessor did. I'm glad, dear colleague Ziherl, that you're such a polyglot as you are, "good luck," I mean it. These are also good things, but if we go back a little bit to reality, not to cooking coffee and baking powder; now if you like to cook at home you also use baking powder on the toilet instead of toilet duck, then use it properly. But, Mr. Secretary, you have written it - it was also not Slovenian, but Comrade Ziherl, if you are thirsty, Comrade Grill, it is with pleasure that the water is out. Dear Minister, it says here in an understandable language, this Government has introduced another foreign language into primary education in the third triad, the first one they have before and the second one they get later. Tell me, English and German are considered to be understandable languages - when it comes to instructions on certain apparatus, in this case, given that each elementary school of these two languages is learning and perhaps also Italian and Hungarian in some areas - because if not, then I really don't understand why it doesn't say "Slovak" "no other understandable language"; then let me tell you, please, why we have another foreign language in another triad; the children will understand it, will be generally known. In addition, I would like to remind you of this - above all, small electrical appliances have been mentioned, which my colleague Ziherl masters "to zero" without instructions, but some of us are not such experts in small electrical matters and we want to be sure how this matter is used - that we do not get Slovenian instructions. There's all that's left in that pile, but there's no Slovenian. Tell me, is that right? It seems right for you not to act, especially when new embassies are opened in this country. But I'm glad that if you have enough French to attach a microwave, my colleague Ziherl, I believe that each of us has used it at least a thousand times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u55	Thank you. But I would like to take the floor by inviting Ambassador Robert Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u56	Thank you. I have previously tried to explain why so many standards on the language of the national communities need to be included everywhere, because they are not originally taken into account when it comes to regulating the scope of language use and we do not yet have one law that would actually regulate these relations in the way that all countries with more official languages have. We've been demanding this for 15 years, and it's not gonna happen, but we get into these problems every time. My fear is that, even in this area, where it also applies on the basis of the statutes of the municipalities and so on, some bilinguality where we live, it is said that this will be lost, as has happened, for example, with the first company law, because we have already established this, for example, that the employment contracts and all the information concerning the position of the employee have been in minority languages. This is gone if you're going to represent a cost to economic societies. So, something that has already acknowledged and ensured respect for the presence of these languages has disappeared. I am afraid that this will also happen as regards business - the little that is now being done with regard to business. And now something else about national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and comparisons with other national communities. Look, here you have to have, like every single thing, a certain measure of common sense. If we are dealing in our Italian case with a community that, where it is at home, prevails 1,840 people who are declared Italians, then we are dealing with such a reality. But if we have one national community that is unitedly settled in a particular area, almost uniformly, and that is 80, 150, 60,000 people, that is another reality. I wouldn't have to have these labels in my own language, because wherever I move, I move within my own language, except when I face the administration. There is a fire company in Slovenia, there are traders in Slovenia, there is a chain of cooperatives in Slovenia, there is a chain of nutrients in Slovenia and so on. This does not exist in Slovenia. This does not exist in Slovenia, which is why we need a certain regime from the country, which nevertheless tackles this fact that we are so few and then we take certain measures to keep it going. That's why there are so many of these standards. And whoever followed the constitutional debate could know that this is why. That's why we have special seats. If there were 30,000 of us in the middle of 50 years, we wouldn't need special seats. On the municipal level, all of it! Because if not, we could not participate in public decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u57	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Majdo Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. It seems to me that it is very difficult to agree to the thesis that any debate that touches on language issues is banal. I would advise those who have debated today in a very strange way to play the magnetogram when one of the important people of this coalition is discussing patriotism and more. To see how they are debated under the Consumer Protection Act. Yes, who is this law directed to? Or an economist or a consumer? Let's think about who this is meant for - consumer protection! So let us make a decision on this, not how much it costs the economic operator, but what purpose such a provision achieves from the point of view of the user of an item or the buyer of an item. And I am very sorry that Mr Minister speaks about the language superstandard, if it is written here that the consumer in the territory of Slovenia is "written in an easily understood language." Go and read what it can be an understandable language that is supposed to be Slovenian! An understandable language can also be used by those who do not have certain skills, but it is not the language of a nation or nationality. That's why it has to be [[End warning sign]] written Slovenian, therefore the national language must be written and members of the nationalities have the right to use their own language because it is their constitutional standard. And the fact is that there's a series of debates that we [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Does anyone else wish to participate in the debate on Article 3 within the time available? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Monday, 17 December 2007, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE TRADE LAW. We have 55 minutes of time available for this point. At its 60th meeting on 28 November this year, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to reconsider the Trade Act before declaring the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State for further explanation. Mr. Semolic, please step in the middle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I must say, my task today is relatively simple. I was relieved by the performance of Minister Visiak yesterday when he correctly announced the change if this law was announced, and given the experience we have with the Minister that the husband is a word, I will do my duty today much easier. The Council of State in its consideration of this law was of the view that, in order to develop Slovenia, knowledge is important to strengthen competitiveness, it must have its price and that in this law we are talking about, there has been a mistake. True, legislation must be adapted to life, yes, life must be followed, but a limit must be set. And in our firm belief, the beliefs of the State Council, it may have gone too far in this part of the marriage. Even in trade, certain minimum knowledge is needed in these professions, which is why we believe that this law should be corrected here. In fact, if this were to remain, it is only an incentive to pay, otherwise, the rights of employees have been reduced here. However, the message to young people is that it is probably not worth training in these professions, because some skills and skills are needed - except knowledge, of course. But knowledge, minimally, is, in our opinion, a firm condition for workers and workers in trade to do their job well and, as we say, to abolish this condition, to reduce the rights of employees and also to promote social dumping. Just to wrap it up. These were essential comments by the Council of State when it voted veto, and I would ask you to reconsider in this part, I think that Article 5 - yes, Article 5 - is an article that somehow does not go in the context of the legislator's good intentions in adopting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Veto is not just a member of the law. The request was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the parent of the labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Trade Act has had many discussions. The latter was important to the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body, which discussed the request of the Council of State to reconsider this law. Let me mention that the Committee has discussed exclusively the conditions for carrying out a commercial activity or the minimum level of education required for two professions: the seller or the seller and the one who runs the business. The Council of State based its request on the fact that it had written down that the National Assembly had failed to take account of its proposals in the process of adopting its proposals and had requested that the minimum educational rates for carrying out such an activity should be fixed. The assessment of the State Council, which was presented, went in this direction so that there would be no interest in training in secondary commercial, commercial and similar schools if such legislation was adopted. In order to reduce the level of education in trade activities in the long term, in order to reduce trade services as a result, to reduce the salaries of employees and to evaluate the profession in general. He agreed, the Council of State, that the current regulation was in the first place, but he did not agree with total deregulation. The government has responded to these assessments on the Committee on the Economy: that such regulated professions are hampered by an unnecessary administrative obstacle to restricting the labour market, its regularity, its current regulation, to follow international trends in this area, to enable, in this way, the growth of family businesses, to ensure that traders themselves, through their internal needs, take care of the employment of educated staff and the organisation of education; that wages are not dependent on education, but on the job or on the work done by someone, and that they are still preparing a recast of school curricula and professional standards. The proposal received the full support of the Chamber of Commerce and was opposed by the opposition bloc in the committee, including by members of the coalition members and a representative of the Workers' Union. The decision was a majority decision, so the Committee proposed that the National Assembly should re-adopt the Trade Act, for which the Council of State requested re-examination and decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister, as a proposal for an explanation of the opinion of the Council of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u64	Dear Members and Members, Mr Vice President! At the Ministry of the Economy, we believe that the Trade Act follows the development of trade activities, the trend of equating the conditions for managing the operating conditions of all economic operators; that is, all those offering consumer goods, whether they are produced or sold, also substantially simplifies certain matters, deregulation not only of professions, but also removes records and so on. So, the law is simple, transparent, short and is intended for the economy, because everything else is protected by other laws, consumer legislation on consumer protection, I don't know, labour law, of course, the Labour Relations Act and a whole bunch of data. Thus, it is a law which is primarily intended for economic operators to operate in a simple, transparent manner, ensuring control, control and so on. As a result, the harmonisation of the law has also taken place with the Chamber of Commerce and the law is fully in line with the Chamber of Commerce, which you could have read last night in the daily newspaper, where the representative of the Chamber of Commerce has undoubtedly said so. A key dilemma was the deregulation of educational conditions as conditions for performing certain typical trade professions, such as the seller, the manager and the like. With this deregulation we wanted to open up a little more hard labour in this area, we wanted to make this possible for some who are also engaged in trade activities. For example: according to the new law, it is possible to sell products on farms, for example, those producing wine can sell wine on farm tourism, but this is now possible. Those who produce fruit can also sell some fruit products and so on. Usually these people do not have some education and, of course, education can also hinder them from doing so and then take advantage of some aspects. So, the desire was to also somehow enable a wider range of potential people who do not have formal education, but can have a lot of knowledge, integrate into the jobs of the seller and so on. So, we swear by knowledge, stress that knowledge is important and necessary. Knowledge is essential today in all professions and especially in the profession of seller. But at the same time, we are also convinced that the formal paper that someone gets at some educational - or course, or program, is not wedding, there is no guarantee of knowledge, is one of the forms, there are also other forms, someone acquires knowledge with experience, work and similar, and can also be a top seller or similar. We are against regulation, in which we believe that it is not necessarily necessary. However, we understand the views, not least the majority in this House, so we think it would be a shame that this law, which has good solutions, would fall because of this opposition or this deregulation, so we are ready and will, clearly, take a step in the direction of compromise. I have already made a public commitment, and today, before the Members and Members of Parliament, I pledge that as soon as this law is passed, because it is formally impossible to do so earlier, I will propose to Parliament or to the Government, and later to the Government. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Parliament, the amended Trade Act, which will include an amendment that, in addition to technical conditions, it is necessary to have other conditions. [[...]] And there will also cost education for certain typical professions in trade activities and that these conditions will be defined as technical conditions by the Minister with a sub-legislative act. I commit to this, this novel is ready and will be filed as soon as it is processable. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Maybe. [[...]] If it is possible even before the adoption of this law, then also before the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u66	Thanks again. Let me take the essence of our position in such a way as to say that we have tried to defend the professional education of the DeSUS Group at all times against the "attacks" it has experienced in the proposals of various laws. This is drawn at least from the Hostage Act of the past, similar to that found in the Crafts Act and now again in the Trade Act. Let me also say, on behalf of my DeSUS Group, that we are pleased that the Minister is willing to compromise with us. This is also why we will not oppose or vote in favour of this law and we will oppose the veto. We have been opposed to total deregulation all the time. So not deregulation at all, but perfect deregulation. For we assess, not just us, but all of us in all the documents, that our fundamental comparative advantage is knowledge, education, that is, comparative advantage over others with whom we are in competition, and we must try to preserve this in every way. We are also convinced that it is possible to gain knowledge even beyond the school system, but that this is somehow sporadic knowledge, that it is knowledge that is more or less random and that it is not comparable to the knowledge that we acquire in a systematic way and that is statistically much more appropriate to build the skills of our staff on this. It is much more likely that we will get good traders if we train them in commercial or other vocational schools than if we happen to run into someone who does not have an education here and there, however, with our abilities, readiness and ability on the way to a good job. The arguments for deregulation are also largely acceptable to us. However, we consider that it is possible to support horizontal deregulation, i.e. deregulation in the sense that it will not be too concrete, who can perform the work of a seller or manager in a trade with a professional education. However, we do not agree to a complete vertical deregulation, where it is possible without any education to carry out the profession of seller, seller or manager. The arguments put forward by the proposer in his favour are of interest to us by the DeSUS Group. For these arguments, today the minister repeated them to swear to knowledge. We all say that knowledge is needed that education is necessary, we all speak or repeat to the Chamber of Commerce that the survey has shown that professions with III, IV, V. and VI are needed. the level of education in commercial activities, including management relations, and the need to renovate programmes, standards and upgrade the school system. We agree on all of this, but to a certain threshold, we are not to abolish it, nor are we to be able to pull it all together under a password that would be told by law over education or to break the school. Some suggested that in the debates, when they talked about how mothers would make sure that children would go to school if we did not have a regulated system. Some talked about the fact that in these schools that we are talking about today, there are only those who have been cut down, who could no longer be, but in this way we do not give firm support to the school system. We therefore consider that the proposaler has also come to some embarrassment and we are solving this embarrassment today in such a way that we will support the law in the DeSUS Group, saying that we are only supporting it because the minister has ensured that the amendment will be tabled immediately after the adoption of this law and that this amendment will nevertheless allow some of the minimum educational standards set out in the regulation. This path could be saved today if at least a proposal was adopted by the Committee on the Economy to change the title in such a way that other proposals were written instead of technical proposals. But now we're going to the same goal on a slightly different, longer route. We will support this law and also a novel that will be submitted later.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Stane Pajk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u68	Your Honors are here! We have a request coming from the Council of State that says: "The Council of State has warned that the draft law should correct at least the minimum educational rate for the performance of the profession of the seller and the manager and specify the laws applicable to those tasks in pharmaceutical shops, plant protection products stores and so on." I must say that these minimum conditions are already defined by laws such as the drug law, the pharmacy law, the chemicals law and so on. So this is already defined in other laws. The trade law itself is short, meticulous and I think it is modern, just as commercial activity as an economic activity needs. I believe that administrative barriers are not good anywhere and not in the trade law. With this law we then give other professions the opportunity to work in trade. However, the fact is that the profile of the seller is not much in the employment institutions and that the schools for training this profession are empty and it is not expected that it would be an attack on these schools at this point, so it is reasonable to give other educational structures the opportunity to carry out this profession. It is very good and fair for me to think that there is an increased possibility of small family companies working on knowledge and also on confidence that it is also possible to sell on farms, which is in terms of the development of the Slovenian countryside. Everything that has already been said is going in a positive direction for the development of trade and also for the economy, so this law has significantly more positive than negative things, of course it will continue its development and therefore the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u69	Thank you very much. My colleague Miran Potrč will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, when we adopted the Trade Act, we considered it fair and right to include in the law the obligation to provide for a minimum education for sellers and managers and possibly others in trade. We tabled an appropriate amendment, which unfortunately did not receive support in the parent’s working body, and then we were unable to repeat it in the assembly. The State Council has formed the same opinion as we and many other opposition parties in the National Assembly. The aim is to provide a better quality of sales by educating the seller and the managers, to provide greater information and better offer to customers, and to provide the basic conditions for a slightly higher salary than the owners could otherwise enforce if the conditions for education were not at all. We were pleased about this, and it seemed right for us that the State Council had voted veto. And our firm belief was that veto should be supported and voted against by law. However, it has made us happy to inform the Minister of Economy of Mr Visiak that, as he has reiterated today, after the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, he will immediately submit amendments and additions to the law, in which it will make sense, in the same way as with the amendment, to provide for a minimum level of education for typical trade professions in Article 5 of the Law, as one of the conditions for carrying out trade activities, so that these minimum technical conditions will be laid down by the Minister responsible for trade. This is the current organisation of the Minister of Economy. It would be inappropriate for the Minister's public statements not to believe, so we expect this to be fulfilled. We are pleased to say that it is better to say late than never, even though it would be preferable for us to have this knowledge in the Minister's office in the course of the debate at the time of the law itself. However, we expect two more steps to be taken by the government to adopt the proposal of ministers that the ruling coalition also adopt a government proposal. We believe that the Minister is aware of this and that he has such arrangements within the framework of the government coalition. If not, it would be right to tell us that it would not have happened later, that he would have argued on the coalition that he wanted to, but that through the government or through the coalition proposals did not go. We are particularly alert to this and expect full correctness. Under such conditions and under such an understanding of the commitments made by the Minister of Economy, Mr Vizjak, we are Members and Members of the Social Democrats, at least by a majority, willing to vote in favour of the law and thus allow the Minister to come to Parliament immediately with the amendments and additions that will provide, including the minimum education in commercial activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! In the LDS Club, we have already pointed out from the outset the inadmissibility of this provision, namely the deregulation of professions in the field of traders and managers, or generally the fact that, in accordance with the dictates contained in this law, there was no need for education for, not only being a salesman, but in general in all trade, to run trade, a very large shopping centre, so in principle, I hope and we believe that this would not happen, but in principle it could happen in such a way that none of the primary schools were completed. We were very opposed to this for a number of reasons. First of all, let me stress that we were aware that the existing solution in certain areas required changes, and we also supported these changes. But not in such a radical way, not so harsh and extreme, but when no education is needed anymore. Nowhere and never insisted that shopkeepers should have a commercial school. We have also pointed out that for sellers of certain articles, it may be more appropriate for those who have appropriate guidance at the vocational school. As a result, neither anywhere nor in the amendment which was tabled, but unfortunately subsequently rejected, was a professional commercial school defined. However, we have always advocated that the minimum level of education should certainly be prescribed, because Slovenia is based on knowledge, based on a knowledge society rather than on cheap labour. And that's the thing we've been exposing. If there were no conditions for employment, no conditions within the meaning of the minimum level of education, this could lead to negative selection and it would be that some would simply hide, hide, when obtaining their employment, because those with lower levels of education would be more competitive, as traders could also be cheaper to hire them. The next thing is that paper, a certificate of knowledge, a final exam or whatever we call it is not a marriage for knowledge; we could also hear it from the minister today. Unfortunately, this has always been more true, and unfortunately, it used to be different, and now it's happening. However, this is no reason to remove the conditions. We must not act like this now if someone may not have the same knowledge of a diploma, some final exam as he used to have, and then we can put an end to it. No, there is a need to change the education system, where we have also witnessed many deregulations at the time of the government, which lead and further the trend in this direction. Next thing. One argument was that admission to vocational trade schools is decreasing. By removing the conditions for education this will only accelerate, admission to vocational schools and thus to commercial schools will be even smaller, not the other way around, as one of the arguments should be. And many of these were mentioned in more than four hours of debate on the Committee, presented all the arguments, but unfortunately the strength of the arguments was not sufficient. It is said that the argument of power has now emerged and the Minister is predicting a change of law, which of course we are looking forward to. However, despite all this law that we are considering today, on which the Council of State has vetoed, we cannot support the LDS Club. By doing so, if this law is rejected today, by a model similar to that of the Education Act or the Basic School and Financing Act, the Ministry may introduce a new, revised law with these amendments, which are announced and which will be supported by the LDS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Member Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. Hello again! There's a trade law before us again. Interestingly, for the third time, we have been dealing with this matter before Christmas when citizens and citizens are literally obsessed with the consumption of cold. Now the matter has been re-cooked by the State Council, which vetoed the bill, and in the New Slovenia Group again gave us the opportunity to point out once again the lack of respect for the will of the people expressed in the referendum that trade, with certain exceptions, is closed on Sundays and holidays. The New Slovenia Group has said for the last time that the solutions brought by the new law are not controversial. We support the removal of bureaucratic barriers, such as keeping records in trade, and the possibility of additional offers will probably bring a lot of positive, especially positive, for smaller trades, as we know they literally live. However, the hottest content concerns deregulation of professions. Last time we witnessed on a committee of different arguments for and against. We in Novi Slovenije are mainly wondering why there is no staff, why there are no salesmen or sellers, why commercial schools are empty, why young people do not choose this profession. Isn't one of the reasons why you work in a store is your work week on Sundays? There weren't hairdressers, hairdressers years ago, that's enough today. Young people decide on this profession, as hairdressing salons are closed on Sundays. This means that certainly for many values, such as caring for family life on Sundays, are very important. We can also ask ourselves whether today it is even appropriate for the state to interfere with professional policy in the field of trade activities and to prescribe education. No one asks themselves today and probably has no right to what kind of education men who are building the entire trade sector in Slovenia are managing capital, and we call them successful managers. Of course, they are successful, capable, even for the cartel arrangement that has certainly taken place in the time that is behind us. We are talking about the necessary education of sellers and sellers, instead of asking ourselves if they are properly paid for their work, for work on Sundays. It is not a matter of fear, respected colleagues and colleagues, that because of the uneducated trades, unfriendly merchants would be able to spend less. The owners of large commercial houses, you are in this, and I am sure in the future, adventure time they are happy to accumulate profits, and we will continue to gloat about poverty and to be stuck in supermarkets as many as possible and to buy everything we need, and also what we absolutely do not need and thus indirectly influence inflation, because we know, more than demand, that can also be the cause of inflation. Since the bill does not contain any content that would suggest that trade, except certain exceptions, is closed on Sundays and holidays, we cannot support the law in the New Slovenia Group. We suggest, however, that if the Council of State re-enters, the Minister has promised, the Trade Act, that Sunday morning, when they are making salesmen. We will also be able to practically verify the atmosphere of Members and Members of the National Assembly on Sunday's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Kristijan Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. At the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have already stressed that one of the most important novelties of the legal text is the deregulation of the profession of seller and trade manager. With regard to the competitiveness of opening up the market, employment and the rapid development of trade, deregulation is, of course, meaningful and welcome. It is further supported by the fact that in other European countries the profession is not regulated. Once again, the deregulation of the profession does not mean that traders will not hire individuals with a commercial education in the future, as every trader wants good sellers who master their business and thereby create a greater profit by doing so. However, deregulation of the profession is also a challenge for commercial schools, which will have to prove their quality by making their students better off than other professional profiles in trade. It would be unacceptable for us to think in such a way that there is a need to insist on the regulation of professions in any professional field in order for certain educational institutions to maintain their schoolchildren. This can only be required in schools or programmes that are important, for example, for the development of the Slovenian language and others. Each educational institution must follow time and adapt its programmes to the needs of the market as well as to ensure that its programmes are attractive and quality. If an individual school is to educate comprehensive traders who will master their work perfectly, there is no doubt that they will also receive adequate employment. However, if this is not the case, it is logical that the demand for schooling in certain schools is also declining. Trade activity in Slovenia has developed very rapidly in recent years. Of course, trade, in addition to traders dealing solely with commercial activities, is also encountered by other economic operators offering goods to the consumer, such as those which have produced them themselves. The proposed law equates all these economic operators, which is particularly relevant in terms of greater competitiveness among these entities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its opinion on the veto of the State Council, also gives an example of a messard who does not have a commercial education and is undoubtedly an educational profile for the sale of furniture. Of course, there is still a whole range of other trades where someone who knows this better and who is significantly better able to handle it than a seller who has only a commercial education. Fearing that trade deregulation will bring additional pressure on wage cuts is not justified in our opinion. The Slovenian consumer is well informed and one of the elements on which it is decided to purchase and also the quality of the advisory services offered by sellers is very important. We believe that the traders themselves will, because of competition, employ a quality staff that will offer good advice to the consumer and thus provide him with purchases in accordance with his wishes and expectations. In our opinion, opposition to this law certainly harms both workers and businesses in terms of developing greater competition in Slovenian trade, which is not yet developed enough to allow businesses and traders to choose the best in the labour market. Unfortunately, if there are not enough suitable sellers, we will allow him to choose others for himself on the market. Even in the spirit of faster human resources restructuring, as certain companies unfortunately die in Slovenian space, such as textiles, and the unemployed may also be employed in other industries, such as trade, which flourishes and employs today. With regard to salary concerns, this is a matter of employer and employee and a signed contract with which both must agree. I believe that this law will be confirmed, adopted and also promised by the Minister, but in some parts may improve this request of the opposition in particular, and I believe that it will be in the interests of the workers, workers and, above all, the development of Slovenian trade, so we will gladly support the law, as we did in the first part of the veto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Alojz Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In fact, we always commend each law when it comes to the adoption of solutions that are good. And even in this Trade Act, we have shown even more than just praise for the part that truly offers great opportunities for further modern development of trade, for the part where it is possible to also flourish family trade, when it is possible that farmers that are still in need of various complementary activities can now sell their products themselves and that we have supported and supported some other good solutions to this trade law, but from the beginning of this debate, we are extremely critical of what the Minister or what was wanted to do until this deregulation. We are convinced that complete deregulation is not good. We have already warned about this in the area of hospitality. It has now been repeated in the area of trade, when we listened, on the one hand, to how the development of trade will be a step forward, in order to provide advice, better expertise, and, on the other hand, to convince us how to deregulation in order to allow work to be achieved by those who do not have an education. And it is in this work, Mr Minister, that I think your assessments have been incomprehensible and, even today, given the true fact that formal paper is not a wedding, but, if the Minister - and also Minister Beast - has said similarly in his reply and somehow put doubts into the system of granting diplomas and other things, that this is not a good signal that you send between citizens and citizens, especially among young people, who, however, have the only card and passport for further development in life. And if such a formal paper doesn't mean anything, I don't know why we're all working or we have to do a driving test, because since we were little kids, they've been watching our dad drive, and they could learn, just like you've been explaining that a kid learns from a father, how to sell in a store. I therefore think that it is in this part that it is necessary to insist that those who do not have an education and who do not have a job in your opinion, the task of the Government and this society, that these people be educated to be given a formal education in order to allow them access to better paid and more demanding works, not to be subjected to deregulation of this matter. Here is the paradox that we have experienced today to remove, on the one hand, those who are in need of assistance, a bill that would allow social transfers and, on the other hand, instead of educating them better, deregulation allows us to start working without education. I am therefore pleased that you have changed this position since the Committee's meeting, together with your colleagues, and that today you have publicly proposed that the novels introduce what we wanted, what we have warned by some parliamentary groups, and that what has been said before is that it is not good for people to be given fish, that they should be taught to fish. And that's the whole point of this story that messages are sent to people in this positive sense. In the Group of Members, indeed, despite a different vote on the Committee on the Economy today, we will support this law because it is more good in law than bad and it would be a shame to see this law fall. If you hadn't proposed such a solution yourself as you did to publicly promise the amendment of the law, we would be proposing to you today the Beast's model for the adoption of the law, which has already fallen once on the Council of State. Because you have made yourself, however, I really believe that this public promise is also linked to the adoption of such a proposal by the government and, above all, in a coalition which, just a week ago, at a meeting of the committee, has smoothly rejected all our comments on the necessary education, and today it supports what I am pleased to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. I am not going to say that I am happy with this move or the promise made yesterday for some newspapers by the Minister for the Economy that after the marriage he will go into change. I recall the debate on the Committee, the national working body of the National Assembly, where the amendment was also tabled. The amendment, which drew attention to the inadmissibility of work under this Act when a complete deregulation of trade professions was introduced. But then, the minister, the government coalition, refused to listen to the opposition's warnings. Today, when the minister counted how many votes he has in Parliament, because some coalition partners have announced that they will not support the law, he said, yes, and we will do something. But why did you have to push the minister right in front of the wall, why did you have to vote on the veto of the State Council, that the minister said, "Yeah, and we're really going to do something?" But what the minister will do is a puzzle today. Today, we will confirm or reconfirm, as it appears, given that Members of the SD and DeSUS have announced their support for the law, today we will support the law which introduces a complete deregulation of trade professions. In other words, deregulation can also mean degradation. If knowledge is the value of society, it is supposed to build in our society, then I ask what people are, those people who, according to the Minister, for filling a hole are said to be deregulation need no more knowledge, formal knowledge. This is at odds with all logic, with the values of our society. This is at the end of the day also with big words, promises by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will build on the Lisbon Strategy during the Presidency of the European Union. I believe you know what the Lisbon Strategy means, lifelong learning. The emphasis is on knowledge, including formal education. That is why we send data to the European Union every year, such as the structure of educated people in our country. Or in five, six years, we will be crying in the European Union that the educational structure of Slovenk and the Slovenians has been reduced due to deregulation, not just in the field of trade activity. A year ago, you passed such a law in the field of hospitality. In five, six years, we're going to be complaining that the number of people who don't even have high school education has dropped because we had to meet the interests of capital? And this law is written specifically for the benefit of capital. Someone in front of me, I think he was a representative of the SLS, said that this law must be adopted in such a form because it also means developing greater competition for Slovenian trade. So I thought about it and tried to find 10 Slovenian stores with my colleagues, a chain of Slovenian shops. Much farther than Mercator, Mercury, I didn't come to shower. And I found Spar, Lidl, Hofer, E'Leclerc, Harvey Norman, Rutar, H&M. These are all foreign trademarks, foreign merchants. Will Slovenians now worry about developing the competitiveness of foreign trade on Slovenian soil? What about the Slovenian worker and the worker? This law, forgive me, by deregulation of professions, by deleting that educational minimum standard actually means an unprotected Slovenian worker. Why? That is why, colleagues and colleagues, a long time ago, the work inspector's report was listened to because labour inspectors, due to lack of capacity, cannot perform work on the ground and, in fact, also from this point of view, workers and workers in trade are completely unprotected, on the fact that they do not even reach minimum wages, EUR 382 as much as the minimum wage in our country. After this law, I fear that these cases will be true workers who will not even meet minimum standards, as far as wages or working conditions are concerned, are so much more. And I fear that this law is also a consequence of two years ago of the introduced Act on Social Protection or the reduction of standards, which, according to the Slovenian National Party, is unacceptable, so we will not support the law again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The legislative vote will be held on Monday, 17 December, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting and the agenda adopted. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on patients' rights under the ordinary procedure. We have 6 hours and 50 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'll give the floor to the Minister of Health. Until he gets here, I'm gonna stop this session. I estimate that it is so important that I interrupt for 10 minutes and continue at 11 and 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u82	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing our session. We have been joined by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Žiberna, who gives him the floor to further explain the bill. Here you go, Mr. Žiberna.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u83	Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr President of Parliament, a truly good day to all! I am pleased that, at this stage of the procedure for the adoption of the law on patient rights, I have the opportunity to make an introductory statement. We work on this law and its contents by many people at the Ministry, but on this occasion I can say that many people outside the Ministry, you and your proposals, Members of Parliament and gentlemen, and those who are very important, representatives of NGOs, other important state bodies and also users are also involved in the content of this law. You have before you a proposal or a written text in the form that has been reached after a number of hearings with concrete proposals and proposals to improve the text of the law itself. The aim of the Ministry is not to pass a law through Parliament, which would somehow cause anyone to sneeze, but the Ministry's aim is to ensure that for two million citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and all those who will need to exercise the rights of patients in the Slovenian system, these rights are collected in one roof law in order to make their way to their rights as easy as possible. The law is in fact the fruit of a very broad team effort on this basis and at this stage, and therefore not just a narrow part of the Ministry of Health or the group, as could be concluded. I am confident that the law that is being passed here will be of great benefit to almost every one of the two million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to the circumstances in which it needs to exercise these rights. Of course, the proposal of the law itself also contributes to the universal respect for patients' rights and the prevention of potential conflicts. It will contribute to the effective resolution of violations or disputes in cases where they will arise, and what is also very important in fact is the raising of a culture of respect for human rights in our society. And the very debate, which is very wide and also in depth at many points, undoubtedly raises in the public the culture of knowledge that they are rights and that they must be respected. Rights in this law relating to the right to access health care and the provision of preventive services, the right to equal access and treatment in healthcare, the right to respect the patient's time, the right to information and cooperation, the right to self-determination of treatment, the right to take account of the expressed will, the right to prevent and alleviate suffering, the right to second opinion, the right to information on health documentation, the right to privacy and the protection of personal data, the right to treatment of infringements of the patient's rights, the right to free assistance in the exercise of the patient's rights. As you have heard, the law regulates a number of rights and regulates them in very detail and at the same time transparently. In the coordination phase, I have already said with the introductory words that we have done very important coordination with you, thus greatly improving the text of the law itself and ultimately its useful value. Let me just indicate with which important addresses we have coordinated the law with you: with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, with the Ombudsman, with the Information Officer, the Medical Ethics Commission, the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Union of Consumers of Slovenia, the Ombudsman of Patients' Rights in Maribor, the NGO Coalition for Patients' Rights - and here I would like to say that this coalition counts 19 members, so it is a very wide group of NGOs - with Europe of Don, with the Society of Nurses, the Forum of Clinical Patients in Establishment, the Legal Information Centre of NGOs. I hope that with this introduction, and given that many of you have been involved, we have convinced you that we have a law before us that will be useful and useful to the patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. Žiberna. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Germić, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 25th regular meeting on 5.12.2007, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the proposal for a second-reading law on patient rights submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. On 26 June 2007, on the basis of Article 122(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of Members submitted a request for a general discussion on the draft law. The general debate was held at the 31st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia 28.9.2007. Following final consideration, the National Assembly adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a patient's rights law was suitable for further consideration and was allocated to the parent's working body for second reading. In addition to the text of the draft law for consideration at the meeting, the members of the Committee adopted the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the letter from the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, the Association of Oncological Patients of Slovenia, the Association of Nurses, Grandmas and Medical Technicians, the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman of Patient Rights, the Commission for Social Activities of the State Council and the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on almost all the articles of the bill. We invited representatives of both the Government and representatives of the professional and interested civil society to the meeting alone. Mr Darko Žiberna, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, gave an introductory explanation to the draft law. He pointed out that the proposer wished to regulate the area of patients' rights going to all healthcare users, regardless of their health status and independent of the rights arising from compulsory and voluntary health insurance. The bill seeks to contribute to the long-term reduction of patient complaints and related costs and is primarily aimed at preventing infringements or disputes between patients and healthcare professionals. The law also regulates the procedural aspect of the protection of patient rights and the contribution to raising culture and the peaceful resolution of disputes. Amendments to the proposed law were tabled within a time limit for the following motions: Members of the LDS MPs to nine articles and addresses, Members of the Group: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to five-fifty articles, to the seventh addresses of the chapters or sub-chapters and to the four amendments for the introduction of new articles, Ambassadors of Barbara Žgajner Tavš to the 50th Article, and to the new Article 11a and Members of the Cvete Zalokar, to the eighteenth Articles and to the proposal for the introduction of a new Article. Prior to the opening of the debate, warnings and doubts were raised by members of the Committee on the quality of the legislative proposal, supplemented by the number of amendments tabled by the parties to the coalition and wishing to supplement them with additional amendments to their amendments. Understanding and the process of adopting all the amendments tabled will be so difficult and the final quality of the law will be questionable. In a long and controversial debate on individual articles of the law and amendments, in which all members of the committee and invited members participated, the maximum time was allocated to the Institute of Patient Rights and the Commission for the Protection of Patient Rights. The law regulates the complaint trails and the patient's rights will be unprofessionally represented by representatives of the patient's rights at the level of the district health care institutions and later at the provincial level. The Committee then proceeded to the vote on the proposed amendments. In the vote, the Committee supported the amendments of the groups of Members: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the fiftieth Article, to the title of Chapter 4, to the title of the first sub-section of Chapter 4, to the title of the second sub-section of Chapter 4, to the title of Chapter 2.4, to the title of Chapter 2.4.2, to Chapter 4. and to the title of Chapter 7, to the specific provision. At the same time, amendments were adopted for the new Article 64a, for the new Article 80a, for the new Article 89a and for the new Article 90a. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The proposal of the amendment to Article 72 of the Orazam Flower Amendment was also supported, but the other amendments of the LDS Group, the Ambassadors of Barbara Žgajner and the Ambassadors of the Zalokar Orazem, or certain amendments, have become irrelevant. [[...]] The Committee drafted and adopted the amendments to the 35 articles, which was adopted by 35 of its amendments, of which 31 were amendments to the amendment and four amendments to the article. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Health Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u86	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at the 31st meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 12.12.2007. First, I am putting to the debate the first article and the amendment to this article. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Mr. Contic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have also spent a great deal of time on the work of the mother body in the consideration of this article, which is perfectly normal, since this Article 1 bears the title, object and purpose of the law. This article is therefore the most important decision, which is then elaborated in this law. Several comments were also made on the Committee's consideration of this first Article. Several individuals or individuals representing various associations of patients, interested groups, have already left the home working body in this article, as it was in fact impossible for the lay public to monitor the debate on all amendments to this article, and somehow to exclude the objectives and purposes of this law, which is now under consideration in the National Assembly. We'll discuss all the articles later. If we just look at the text, we see that the bulk of this text is being printed, which means that almost all the articles have been amended at the committee meeting or the text has been changed. When we talk about this Article 1 and the amendment prepared by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, let me say that we did not table amendments in the Group of Social Democrats, because we somehow agreed with the amendments tabled by the opposition parliamentary groups and it would not be serious if these amendments were duplicative. We therefore agree with this amendment, which is proposed by the LDS in the second reading at the meeting of the National Assembly, because this amendment provides for the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 1, which states: "The right to health insurance and the manner in which they are enforced provides for a special law." In the debate on the parent’s working body, we were able to find that these stories are intertwined, that when an individual finds himself in a situation where he is a patient or, rather, a patient, he finds that his treatment can be quite difficult, including procedural, procedurally, not only in the manner determined by the profession. In recent weeks, we have also been able to come across from the public media, of course, because they have been monitoring non-love, as well as tragic events in the delivery of health services - the case of dentists or dentists - and we have found that the promises made by insurance sometimes differ greatly from the actual situation or actual possibilities that this patient, who knows his rights, actually gets when faced with the possibility of his treatment. This is followed by conflicts that can sometimes have tragic consequences. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we also point out that it is difficult to separate matters and that it is difficult to divide them into multiple laws and then direct the patient to exercise his rights, in accordance with this legislation, which he does not know, even if he has his own representative or guardian, whatever he may be told in this case. That is why we believe that the amendment is appropriate, it is appropriate to support it and then to amend some other articles and to enable it to be intended for those for whom we accept it, which are patients, these are patients. Patients now find that this law is intended primarily for health care providers, and much less for patients who should be specifically targeted. We will therefore confidently support this amendment in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We will certainly not support the proposed amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because the adoption of the amendment would change the whole concept of the law, with a number of other articles of this law being affected. For the law, as it is before us, governs the rights of health services. However, the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 1 would also include health insurance rights under that Act, which is already governed by other laws or by the Health Care Act. As we say, because of this amendment, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u90	Thank you. Mrs. Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! With regard to Article 1, we will support the amendment of colleagues, because, in fact, it is also in some way the essence of the law and also the basis of all matters. It is that patients and patients in particular expected us to prepare a law where we will settle all their rights in one place. This was also said very loudly and very clearly at a meeting of the Committee that when a person gets sick, he suddenly encounters a number of problems that are not exclusively in the field of health care, but also intertwined and related to the area of health insurance and disability-retirement insurance. And it is at this point that the law has also failed, and at some other points that I will talk about later, my purpose, because the patient will still remain in some way lost in the mazes of search for justice, both at different levels, where he will seek this right in terms of the institution he will represent, as well as in terms of the rights that are correctly stated in the health care segment, most of them cover all areas, but certainly what the patients want has not been achieved. I must say, I am extremely disappointed that the leadership of the National Assembly did not adjust the meeting to finally being a minister with us. It is my feeling and I will tell him out loud that the Minister is avoiding this issue and has never actually been with us when we have addressed it, even though we have appealed, called press conferences, asked to meet at that intermediate stage when the law was being corrected, after the Government has withdrawn it, but unfortunately such meetings have not taken place. And, Mr Secretary of State, if the coalition talked about some sticky fingers weeks ago or the president, then I can talk today about your sweet words, which we keep from sugar here, how you perfectly coordinated things with the patients' societies, how you worked together, how the doors were open at the Ministry, and people on the committee before all of us, those who wanted to listen, told a completely different story; that, while they were invited several times in the time of Minister Bručan and that they participated in the talks, then from there, when Minister Bručan left, the doors of the Ministry were closed. All the initiatives came across a deaf ear. Despite my express request to meet you in this interim period, you have not met the many amendments that were more than the articles of the law, the amendments, you have prepared yourself. Moreover, I personally believe that the key to this law was the medical profession, and that is why this marriage will be weak, because it will be the adoption of a law on patients' or patients' rights without patients, that is to say, ignorance and arrogance. And that's why people left the meeting last time, so she even shed some tears, so people were disappointed when they said, "We don't really know what you're talking about. Speak of our rights!" And perhaps if there were a little more of that understanding on your part, you might get some commendation for a solution. I admit that some of the solutions in the law are also appropriate: that it is good that we have adopted a second opinion, that it is also good that we have an advocate at the country level and so on. But you haven't given people a chance to understand. Those amendments were not yet understood by us Members of Parliament, professionals for procedures and rules of procedure, and we were hunting for nine hours at that meeting where they came to this opportunity for the first time. Of course, to tell such lies here, Mr Secretary of State, how well you have worked with societies, but here we have all received a letter from the Forum of Associations of Chronic Patients in the establishment, which brings together in fact the largest number of different patient societies that will now be organised, where it clearly states: "At the meeting of the Committee on 5 December, members of the coalition voted in favour of the article. The Secretary of State, Mr Darko Žiberna, said at the meeting that the proposal for a law was consistent with civil society, although he had to know that it was not true." And today you have repeated this once again, and you have received this letter from the Ministry, received by President Janša, received by Mr Tsukjat. And you are quietly passing through this letter and think that now the Slovenian public will believe in these few words how wonderful the matter is coordinated! Personally, that's what bothers me the most is that you want to show that the law has been passed with great consent, by applauding the societies of patients you've actually ignored on the entire line. Civil society had no choice but to cooperate, no problem at all, and take some time, maybe hours to explain the law to them. That's all they said, now I'm saying what society representatives said at this board meeting: "You haven't explained to us, we don't know the details." Okay, well, you're right, but it seems to me that the absolute excess of the influence of medicine was also through individual organs. And of course this is not the law that doctors should write; also doctors, but not doctors alone. This is all a big mistake from your ministry. That's why this law will also be what patients say here, and I quote, "A man so well-intentioned will get the impression that it's just one more task to unlock, and nothing else." That's what the patients tell you, Mr. Žiberna, that's what the patients say, not us Members, we're just the messengers. And you have made such an introduction today that you really would think a little about it. If we were at least right, we'd tell you how we struggled with all the articles when you had all the amendments, and you were also writing amendments to the amendments, and you're talking about wonderful things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u92	Thank you. Since interest is still an interest after the discussion, I am opening up the possibility of re-appealing Article 1 and the amendment to this Article. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, distinguished Mr President, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are talking about the Law on Patient Rights, which was long-awaited and yet also came to the parliamentary assembly. I am pleased that our Government, the Ministry, has taken on this difficult and extensive issue, and I cannot agree that it has not taken into account the opinions, suggestions, suggestions of civil associations, various societies, individuals who have done very important things in informing patients and working with patients, pioneering, and I think it is right to give them all the credit. It is true that civil associations wanted, if not even required, to include in the Patients' Rights Act also a material for regulating the rights and enforcement of health insurance procedures. However, this is a problem that is not so easy to include in the Law on Patient Rights itself, clean from legal, human rights and also for implementing reasons. As we know, health insurance procedures are regulated in two stages at the Health Insurance Institute. These procedures are extremely numerous. And all these procedures are guided by the "lex specialis" of the Health and Insurance Act. That is why I think that if we want this problem too - and it can happen that in the future, this issue will also be included in this law, perhaps not only this issue, but also, as we have heard from the committee, the issue of disability insurance. However, for the time being, if we wanted to reach out to the law, and it is right to adopt it as soon as possible, to act on this law, I think it is appropriate to accept it in the form for which a consensus has been adopted, and I think that this will be a good way for patients to travel to their rights and exercise their rights. We will not support the amendment to Article 1 of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the proposer. With regard to Article 1, which deals with patients' rights, the purpose of the law is to define them. Surely, though, the purpose of this law, as defined in the second paragraph, is only a dead letter on paper. In fact, it says here that the purpose of the law is to provide equal, adequate, quality and safe health care. That's not it. This law solves the procedure when violations have occurred, how to act afterwards. In fact, if it comes to what it says, "equality, appropriate, quality" and so on, there is no breach, then everything is fine and this sentence is already in conflict with the purpose of this law. The problem is that this law will not in any case improve the accessibility or exercise of insurance rights, and is in fact a substitute for all that health policy has not been able to do, know or wish to do, from what we have written in the coalition contract. If I just list a few things: there is no network, no national programme, no job awards, no better organisation and no time use, no management review, we agreed, no law on long-term care and so on. In short, instead of regulating or ensuring the functioning of the health service in order to avoid infringements, health policy offers a solution to the complications in the manner set out here in this law. So, I will support the amendment to this article. I submit, however, that the purpose of this law, as defined in Article 2, is fictional and unfulfilled, and this law certainly does not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to reiterate once again that I am firmly convinced and I believe that everyone sitting here today, that the law is intended solely for the benefit of our patients. And that this is a very, very good marriage, a big shift in this area, and I am sure that patients will benefit only from this marriage. If we touch on this amendment, where we have also received some suggestions, the critic that this area should now be extended to some others, let's say legal complications - let it be with health insurance companies, let it be with the pension and disability institutions, this law cannot solve it. For this law is intended primarily to solve problems, complications in the relationship of patients: the provider of health services or activities. That's the purpose of this marriage. I believe that it would be very useful for our citizens and citizens to have a truly covered professional institution that could help each of us in any field. But there is no such institution in the world, it is not in Europe, and I am sure that we can never have such a universal and professional institution. Let me give you an example. For me, the patient is also a person who has experienced, say, a traffic accident, is injured and is facing some legal problems in relation to the causer, such as accidents, perhaps in relation to, not a health insurance company, but to another insurance company. This means that we should also determine in this law the way in which people engage in or assist a patient in such areas. There are also compensations in companies where an individual can suffer from a occupational illness. There's a lot of these areas. That is why this law, which is now before us, deals mainly with the situation between the health service provider and the patient. And that's the basic purpose, and that's what this law is after. Very precise, with precise procedures, including time-bound criteria, leads anyone who needs this law in a way that is understandable to him and how he can proceed if he thinks that he has been violated by 14 rights, as far as this law also provides. Today, we have also listened to the criticism that this law protects health care providers. Please indicate where the right of the health service provider is laid down in one word. There is some duty, especially in patients, to cooperate with healthcare providers, which is also a basic and bilateral purpose. Thus, with such claims - I think that this is incorrect and, above all, misleading. We are hearing here today that more amendments have been tabled than were members. It was true, there were many amendments, but why were those amendments or, what did they change? The concept itself or the objectives of this law have in no way changed any amendment. The main objective of protecting our patients or patients is to achieve this, but in some areas with the amendment or amendments, some have tried to follow the opposition, as well as the media, as well as a wide range of societies, so that certain solutions are now fully defined in this law. Let me give you an example. It has never been said in the original text that the patient will have to pay for any services or rights that he or she will have to pay, to a great extent, and to mislead the public that the patient will have to pay. The representative was free of charge in the original text and is free of charge today. And such a claim was nothing less than and it was also a numerous amendment with such a purpose that things were also clearly defined. The claim that this law was not in line with the societies that it was not in line with the civil initiative that it was not in line with the Ombudsman. These are also statements they don't hold. The text of the law, before being introduced into the government procedure, was fully in line with the Ombudsman, Mr Hanzko. He did not have any substantive comments, and with such solutions he then went into the procedure. Now that we have a new guardian - she too has been interviewed because the Ministry of Health or the trainee asked her how she views these things, and she has also agreed with most of the solutions, and she has also strongly rejected what some of you are now trying to vehemently criticize so that we should have the Ombudsman's rights. The Ombudsman himself, who knows this very well, does not support this because he is aware that the Ombudsman or the Ombudsman of the patient's rights, for the first time, is not operationally capable of doing so in as many areas as the representative will be able to do, and, last but not least, he cannot have such operational and executive functions as the representative has. This is a perfectly logical and practical consequence that it advocates a solution such as now - an agent, not least it could be called something else, the essence of the powers it has. If the representatives of civil society had left the board, but if they had been correct to say how this meeting had been held, the beginning would have seen that indeed all those who were there had the word, what was right to have the word, had, in a long time, expressed criticisms that were unjustifiable, because with the solutions that were suggested by them, we also accepted them through the amendments, in other words, talked practically in mind, they did not know that these things were also taken into account, and when the cameras left, they also left. The only person who was constructive until the end of the seven-hour meeting was Mrs Kutinova. She too has worked constructively all the time and we have searched with her for all the solutions. That this is the Forum of Chronic Patients Associations, if I recall correctly, is the most critical of this in the establishment. This word "instituting" also raises some doubts to me whether it was established to try to discredit this law in this way. Who's using that? None! Let us tell our people that this is a good law, that they should use it when it is adopted, and that it will be in their best interests. I am so firmly convinced that we have the text of a law that we may still have with some amendments to improve further, where this will show that consideration is being given, and that it will then be what we need and we are one of the few countries that has such a good law in favour of our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u99	Thank you very much. When I first called on this Article, I thought that we would follow the rules of procedure and consider only the amendment to Article 1. However, I see that the debate has returned more than in the general debate, so I will also allow myself to say a little past the rules of procedure some of the things that have happened in this law so far. At the first reading, where a constitutional majority of 60 votes were so adopted that the law was a suitable basis for further consideration, 17 members of the opposition voted and thus gave a green light to this law to come to the second reading. Now all the excuses about how these Members, who back up the law at the time as a suitable basis, simply wanted to speed up the procedure, would not hold up the explanation, because they needed to know that once the law came into second reading, all the comments to the law could be taken into account only in the form of amendments. And in the light of all the comments made, both the Ombudsman, representatives of civil society and various interested societies, have come together in the form of amendments and several amendments have been tabled to the law, such as the articles themselves. And all the discussion that followed on the Committee on Health in this article, both civil society representatives and some societies, as well as the tears that were present by the Maribor Ombudsman, showed that all those who had left the meeting more than protestably, the amendments that had taken into account 100% and 95% of all the proposals that had been submitted had not looked at them at all, talked in mind, shed tears, expressed anger and dissatisfaction, left the meeting as soon as the cameras had left. In particular, any comments made by the Maribor Ombudsman shall be taken into account either in Article 8 or in the amendment to Article 8. It is true, however, that the comments of the founding society have not been taken into account, which I suppose started on the 11th, and the 12th has sent these comments to us and today we are the 13th. Therefore, such instigation is inappropriate and does not allow for serious consideration of such an important law as the Law on Patient Rights. In this law, it is also necessary to say that Slovenia has had health care, we will say, not in an exemplary manner over the past 17 years, but it has been regulated, and most of the comments made by patients have also been resolved in the past. Today, when this government has drafted an appropriate law to improve the situation in this area for the benefit of patients and patients, we have a lot of comments, and I say that most of these comments are without proper justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u100	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that, if we were to be aware of the words spoken, it is said that this is a serious consideration of such a very important law, then we would not be witnessing the work that we have done to him on the labour body itself. A colleague before me said, yes, he admitted that several amendments had been introduced to the law, such as the articles of the law itself. It's a disaster. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has made it clear that the law is far from being said to be definitive or consistent if you like to use foreigners. I hope you know what those words mean. And we were correcting or the government coalition was correcting on the proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service with amendments. Then we witnessed on the home work body that just before the present we had proposals that the working body was supposed to summarize as its proposals, is called amendments to the amendments because they changed their minds. Then the Secretary of State, at the request of the opposition and the civil public, who was present, even heard that the proposals were smart and would be taken into account within the framework of the law. And the representative of the government coalition said, "No, not the secretary of state, we won't accept it!" And the Secretary of State said, "No." Is this some consistent behavior or, I'll say, responsible conduct under such an important law as the law on patient rights? If we have a law on patient rights, then I say that the law or the key objective of the law should be: to protect patients' rights. No service providers! These are all too protected today. I hope that it is not the main objective of the law to simply, I simply say, solve patient-to-patient problems: a service provider. I hope that it will prove, although I do not believe, in the light of certain articles that I consider very unrealistic, it is inconsistent that the patient will be truly protected where protection is needed in the procedure when the law comes into force. At the outset, Mr Žiberna said in a presentation of the government's or ministry's position that for 2 million Slovenians and Slovenians, rights were written in one place. The path to enforcement will be easier, easy, but we are already witnessing at the first amendment that we can challenge his words, because rights for 2 million people are not recorded in one place, but we will look for the rights that are, I will say, written in other laws that overlap with each other to create total, complete confusion, to which the representatives of civil society on the committee have also warned. As for the rights of equal access for all, I will say, 2 million Slovenes and Slovenians. Equal access, please tell me whether the payment, as recorded in Article 66, or whether payment is equal, is equivalent to access for all 2 million Slovenians and Slovenians. No, respectable colleagues and colleagues! As long as we allow debates in our country, a proposal for a law on the agenda is withdrawn because the government will buy time - I'm specifically talking about social transfers - so much time, you know, you can't talk about laws that allow or allow our citizens equal access to services. A social picture in our country, respected colleagues and colleagues, does not allow people who depend on money social assistance to be paid in advance for a service that they may otherwise enforce under law. Yes, they will be able to enforce it if they pay in advance for this service. They will then receive the "post Festum" reimbursement, partly, entirely, depending on how the Commission will judge - the Commission, which is directly influenced by politics, the Minister. Not then talk about protecting the patient's rights! Dear colleague Grill, if you can't tell yourself publicly, please don't cross the microphone. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Please. [[...]] Don't bother. Buddy Grill! You're explaining because you're saying that our country doesn't need some sort of roofing institute to take care of patients' rights. But it's in your coalition contract! Read the coalition contract, where it is written that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will establish an institution of the Ombudsman at national level, which will be a professional body independent of politics. You've overstepped your own commitment in the coalition contract! In 2005, I addressed the previous Minister of Brussels with a question specifically concerning the law on patient rights, the law on mental health, which is still missing. These people need protection, too, and they don't get it. Apparently, they won't get it under this law either. At that time, in 2005, the minister promised me a clear, black and white record in the tape or written in Lotus Notes to the network of the National Assembly that the Government would establish the Ombudsman. So don't even think about it! Don't even think about it! And when you say that the law is in line with the entire civil society, I don't know if some of us on the board had a vague sense that we didn't know how to understand the words that were also spoken by the Ombudsman of the patients' rights from Maribor, who was responsible only locally for this area, it is said that the Styrian end. I don't know, don't I understand all the same letters coming to the MPs, to the MPs, to the Prime Minister, to the Minister? Neither does the minister hope to make a clear statement as to why. Why did we prepare and adopt marriage so superficially? This letter, which my colleague Zalokar Orazam has already read before me, writes - because some of you mentioned Mrs Szezlino - says that her comments have not been taken into account. Yes, she left the session with tears in her eyes because the work she witnessed was shameful. Embarrassing for patients, as well as for the legislative branch. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that some of you want to brag or sneeze a year before the election with such a law. I am sorry that we forced the adoption of the law on the home labour body just before the laborers to comply with the business regulations so that we can deal with it at the meeting today. You know why I'm sorry, too? Because all of this is so very superficial, we Members have in fact only had one day of time to prepare amendments to the amended bill, although we have heard that there was total confusion at the second reading of the working body, because we have considered the amendment to the amendment - I think there have been more than 100 amendments to everything - and proposals, comments on the amendment to the law. And this schlemparia, this schlemparia is also seen in this complementary proposal of the law, because the text of the law simply lacks specific points. This, respected colleagues and colleagues, must not be proud of the National Assembly. The Patients' Rights Act, if it is intended to protect the patient's rights, should be created in cooperation with patients, is said to be users. This is a key mistake you've made. And you repeat a key mistake, you drag on because you don't want to listen to the warnings, the warnings given to you by patients united into different civil associations, different societies, etc. I will support the amendment proposed by Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. It also supported because I say that the law, in the form proposed by the Ministry, is not written on the skin of all of the two million Slovenes and Slovenians, and because I say that the law, as Mr State Secretary has said, that otherwise the law covers and regulates rights, I say that is not the case. And if you read Article 1 of the existing law in paragraph 3, then you will see that the law actually does not regulate everything in one place.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Grill, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zgajaneva! I would advise you to take at least two steps higher in your rhetoric, not to offend the National Assembly, the Ministry and, last but not least, the fellow Members of Parliament and colleagues. I'll start with your understanding of the address. You obviously haven't even read it or you don't understand it. This law speaks of the patient's rights. But you here once again wanted to stress that there should be a law that protects all the rights of all of us. This is what this law says in its title, and again you have stated that I say that Slovenia does not need such a law or such a person. That's not true. It would be very good, but I'm sure it's very difficult to have a marriage like this. And I don't know any country that would have a marriage like that. All the time you've been going into the procedure of a parent's working body meeting, which you yourself have left relatively quickly, and you don't even know how this debate was going on, but you're here to talk a lot about how we've had this treatment. You're deceiving payment. The representative shall be fully free of charge. The Commission - is also clearly defined: in the event that an ineligible person is shown to be ineligible, he may bear a proportionate part of the cost by reading the whole article, but in the event that the person is socially weak, he may be completely forgiven. Yes, you can! And I think the commission is going to do that. All the time, I've said this on the committee, you're all arguing that the country, Members, the Ministry is intended not to protect our citizens and citizens from such or other irregularities. It's like all of us are going to have a marriage that's going to hurt our patients, that every solution that's in there is going to be directed at patients. What's with all the negativity? This law has been written - and I still say so - exclusively for the benefit of our patients. No rights here, as you say, are guaranteed here the right to performers - none, exclusively for our patients! You're talking about the guardian. If we look at her work, which I respect and believe is very much done and done, I believe it will be in the future, but the representative will be the extent of the work that the lady is using or carrying out, she will be able to carry it out even more successfully with the new tasks. So it's more or less really unfair to operate on such data here. Here we are again to shit a year before the elections. It means every good law - obviously it's a good law if you have so much opposition to us that we don't get tired of the ruling coalition, we can all do it, and we can be proud if we have such a law that we've adopted it. About the guardian, again what was in the coalition contract or something. It doesn't matter now what's in the coalition contract. We have a marriage and an agent. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u104	Mr. Grill, time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u105	Thank you very much. But then I'll keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u106	Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The fact is that the LDS Club supported the law at first reading. It is also true that the LDS Club submitted a similar law more than a year ago in order to be able to discuss this very important content in this house. At that time, the coalition firmly rejected the bill as an unfounded proposal, a poorly defined bill, even on the ground that it would produce a better one. When we received Members of Parliament on the bench of this law, we, of course, supported the need and necessity of the proposed law at first reading. But it is not right that you now tell us that we have supported, and you do not say that we have had a series of substantive comments that we wanted to continue the procedure only in the sense that we are facing this, because there has been no confrontation with the proposer at this meeting. The Minister was here, there was no feedback on the arguments, and here we correctly understood the Members, given that the Minister has come to a new conclusion that this was not her proposal, that the Secretary of State at the time was not to support this and we will be able to upgrade this law. However, we have made clear the arguments for what we believe in this law must be different. And at the LDS, we have made it clear that one of the great shortcomings of this law is that we will have a duality. And to this day you have not convinced me that duality will not be or that the solution introduced by the third paragraph of Article 1 is a good one. And at this point, I must agree with my colleague Žnidaršič on the ambition of this law. Because there is no national programme because there is no network because there is no transparent health policy, you have pushed something into this law that you would like to solve because there is no solution in other areas. How do we understand the right that is given, the respect for the patient's time, to the articles that say how do we even establish this right in life?Oh, my God! That's incomprehensible. How will someone who will read this law, how information must flow between the IVZ, between the institutions and these matters, how this list should work and so on? This is not the content of this law, but it is the content of unregulated health conditions. We've been listening so much to how all the waiting types statistics, how we've managed to narrow it down, and in this law you're just talking about, there's no systematic collection, there's no record, and everything we're talking about about is so attracted for purely other purposes, just not for the patient. Here it was also heard that in the law that had been amended, it was impossible to amend other contents that would change the concept of the law. I can't agree to this. I read all the amendments very carefully, and I also tried to understand the amendments to the amendment at the committee meeting, which lasted for a good 9 hours. I stayed all the way, followed and was surprised many times. I have repeatedly asked the coalition Members who have tabled amendments to the amendment to explain the content of the proposals they are introducing into the law. I would ask the coalition Members to tell me that they were able to make a substantive argument at the time. One! One, except that the amendment to the amendment is due to the time constraints in which the proposer was in which he prepared almost all the amendments for each article. And when we talk about it, we need to ask ourselves, in the context of Article 1, whether what they say first and second paragraphs will be realized. My opinion is that if the third paragraph remains, we have proposed a deletion. Why is this so important? See, the first paragraph reads: "This law specifies the rights that a patient or patient has as a user or user of health services in all operators or operators." How do you think someone who reads this law will understand that these rights are in one way in one marriage and otherwise regulated in another? How? I don't know how to introduce myself. You really can't imagine that. Now I'm going to explain on a specific case. We have the Health Insurance Act, where we have our rights. Therefore, in Article 2 of the Compulsory Insurance Rights, we refer to individual rights and also in Article 26, we make it clear that a more precise scope of the services provided for in this Act, as set out in those preceding Articles, establishes an institution by means of its general act. I have this general act, we are talking about the rules of compulsory health insurance. We're talking about what the third paragraph says. I'm not going to represent everything, but I'm going to present two content that I see how this two-tier run. Firstly, it is, for example, the right to transport by ambulance and other vehicle which in paragraph 3 says that "this right is granted in the event that transport by public means of transport or by passenger car could be harmful." Now let us put ourselves in the role: this right is not given, the patient thinks that this right should be enjoyed, and under this law we have the right to adequate quality and safe health care, which I think also speaks of this content. How to understand that the right to transport by ambulance is not given to me, but at the same time I think that this right has been violated, of course it is logical that at that time I also think that the right to adequate health care is violated. I speak as a layman, but that's how I'll read it when I know this law to the best of my ability. I think there's going to be a duality here. The right given under the Health Insurance Act and violated, I think, will also be violated by this right under this law. Second example of duality. Next. In these rules, we speak of the right of each of us to replace a personal physician. So we can replace it and how we can replace it, while the law says that everyone has the right to choose a doctor. Well, he has a right! And if there's a complication based on that, there's an automatic complication under this law. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm just talking about that the third paragraph - colleague Sok, you'll have the right to deny everything I'm talking about - is that "the rights of health insurance and their way of enforcing them are determined by a special law." That's what we're talking about. Comrade Sok, I will not take your word if you want to have it, and I would like you to be so correct that you sign up for the debate and do not disturb me when I discuss it myself. Of course, I'm sure this kind of debate bothers you. I apologize, Mr President, but the attitude that colleague Sok is now showing towards dealing with this problem also appears to be arrogant in relation to everyone who wanted to participate at [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u108	Mr. Germich, you're polymerizing, as I hear, and not Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u109	Mr President, I think that everyone who has been in this Chamber, perhaps except you, has heard the intervention that colleague Sok had in my discussion, undeclared. You didn't warn him, but now you're warning me that I'm trying to do what you didn't do. It seems very unfair to me that my fellow Member, whom I believe to be able to respect the correctness of his fellow debater, is disturbed by the intrusions. So here we are trying to justify the amendment and why the weakness of this law is that the regulation of health insurance rights will be regulated in another law. There will be a mix-up, there will be misunderstandings, there will be a series of new procedures. I would only remind you of the explanation that you gave - that is, the coalition - to the role of representative and the tasks that speak of representative when they talk about how many cases will be covered by health insurance. You say that under this law there were 360,809 cases in 2006, of which decisions were issued at the second stage of 7,832. That's what we're talking about. And we are talking about the point of having a law that regulates rights and procedures for the exercise of rights if they are violated. It's just an idea. And we warned you about that at the first reading; you can look at the magnetograms and you will see this fact. When I hear here that the amendments that have been adopted have been followed by the opposition's deception, then I wonder why such a multitude of amendments have been adopted for the benefit of the patients, what you are saying here today is that the law is intended exclusively for patients, in order to extend their rights, we make it easier to exercise their rights. And here I am just pointing out: you have filed a law of 7.6., a letter from the Ombudsman of 29.6. The papers talk about how it wasn't, what you're saying is coordinated. See only the 15th point pointed out by the Ombudsman that you have introduced representatives of the Ombudsman into the Committee for the Oversight of Representatives. Constitutionally, it's a completely unconstitutional matter. That's what she warned you about, but you didn't take this into account in the bill. Of course, now, this has to be acknowledged and I have to say this recognition that a number of things have been improved by amendments, this is a fact, but it was not a step taken that would make this law useful for the user, that is to say for the patient. And here's our dilemma. And in Article 2, you will see this banality when you delete two definitions, for which the Secretary of State also said that you must remain in law, and then he removed his head and the voting machine did its part without arguments. These are the concerns that you will be willing to listen to in the coalition or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u110	Thank you. I'm reopening applications because I can still see the hands. Mr. Jazbec, please sign in. You haven't been quoted, so I can't give you a replica, but you can sign in. Here you go, Mr. Jazbec.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, I would have a procedural proposal because it seems to me that there have been so many insults in the debate of the two predecessors at the expense of the Member of the ruling coalition, of course, on what we were doing at the working body meeting. I should explain to my colleague Germić what we have already done at the working body meeting, that although we did not justify amendments to the amendments, we have made it clear and loudly that these are amendments that are prepared on a proposal from society and the public concerned, those which left the meeting in protest at the beginning of the committee. And now it's wrong to make an impression, to regret how incapable we are and how we didn't know it's incorrect. Please, because this was not the first offense, also colleague Žgajner said things about this law today and mentioned things earlier in this respect. I hope you know what this means. I hope you know that I, too, hope, colleague of Žgajner's, that you don't think that we're all illiterate in this room. But as far as marriage is concerned, that's what I'm trying to say. The law is extremely good, otherwise there would not be so much opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u113	Thank you very much again for your word. See, today there is a lot of talk about the fact that this law or proposals did not take into account the suggestions of many societies, civil initiatives and, last but not least, professions. I have here, but I quickly counted, in fact 14 different societies, interlocutors and also specifically mentioned their proposals and also what has been taken into account and what has not been taken into account. In fact, all of them have been taken into account from the Law and Law Service, most of them, except in the waiting list, because the system that this law now somehow foresees will allow us to have in one place a selected waiting collection for all of Slovenia, which is the only meaningful and logical one. All other matters concerning the Ombudsman have been taken into account, from the information officer of all suggestions, from the Health Insurance Institute, from the NGO for the protection of patients' rights, the Forum for the Rights of Children in Hospitals, the Alliance of Friends of Youth, from the Ombudsman of the patient's rights in Maribor, and most of the things that she now uses through work were not taken into account, and not only by her, but also by some others, that we should have the Ombudsman's Institute, and I will also say why this is a less appropriate solution than the law does now. Well, I will not really list here all these institutions with which the Ministry has worked, take into account the comments, and I think that this figure, mentioned earlier by the predecessor, that 90% or 95% of the justified comments have been taken into account, is also correct. Once again, I would like to point out that there is much debate on the name: whether it is an agent or a guardian. For me or for the patients, it's important what someone can do for them. Let us now ask ourselves what role the Ombudsman can play today in the operational sense of acting for our citizens who are looking for some right in them. He doesn't have any jurisdiction. He can use some letters, some phone calls to do a lot of things, but that's not what everyone would expect. However, the representative in this law will have virtually more powers or tasks to operate in an operational sense. And that's the real solution. As to the name, whether it's a guardian or an agent, it's completely unnecessary and irrelevant. Once again, with regard to Article 1, where we want to expand tasks, not only the law, including the representative or the commission, to a number of other areas, from the Institute of Health Insurance to the pension and disability institutions. I believe that this could be easier for patients or for all citizens and citizens, but in such an institution as the representative, such as the Commission or the law, it is impossible to cover all these areas, because if we set those two areas, I would have to do them for others. As I mentioned, we have patients and patients who have been injured, we have problems with ordinary commercial insurance companies, we have with courts, we have with natural persons, we have with legal persons, we have many legally unresolved issues, which means that we should have a person or an institution here in this law who could do all these things. I think that this would be impossible to realize in practice as well. This law exclusively pursues the objective of protecting patients in relation to healthcare providers, providing them with services at a high professional level and in accordance with the medical profession’s doctrine. This is the key and I think that this law is also following this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I find it difficult to agree that I will only hesitate to say the words of the government coalition or to my colleagues or representatives, I apologize, the ministry. They taught me that if things were justified, then I could say that. I can say that with my critical thinking. That's what I've been taught since, I don't know, since kindergarten, through elementary school, high school, college. If an insult to the government coalition is any different opinion, I'm sorry, if I'm offensive. But the facts, respected colleagues and colleagues, speak differently. I'm not saying that everything in the bill on patient rights is bad. Far from it. No one's saying that. No one on the board said that either. However, the opposition and, in fact, all those who were present by a civil initiative, various societies, were alerted to weaknesses in the law itself. And you're obviously going to be hearing these weaknesses today because you don't listen to the repeated warnings that have been tabled in the form of amendments. Yes, some protested to leave the meeting. I was alone among them. Obstructive. Since we reached the point where the SDS representative ordered the Ministry's representative, the State Secretary, what should be written down in the law, although the Ministry's representative, the one who was signed under the law, the Government, the Ministry passed the law. Because you simply didn't want to listen to any warnings that were very reasoned, it was also important enough for me that civil society could not participate in the debate because they did not follow the action. The amendments to the amendments caused a complete mess. Members who were supposed to be trained in the legislative process could not be monitored so quickly. That is why, or some of us have left the meeting of the parent’s working body. And when you say some, what if it's written in a coalition contract? So what? But we're wondering if the coalition treaty is not a credible document, then it's an obvious deception to the public, to the general public, even within the signatories to the coalition treaty. It was clearly stated there, at the beginning of the mandate, that the Government made a promise which today itself challenges, czech, because it does not matter what we wrote in the coalition contract. That's bad. This is the untransparent work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sorry if I'm insulting. I don't mean to be insulting, but all I'm talking about is facts. Payment of services. Yes, Article 66 speaks of the payment of services. Now, for the first time, I'm going to mention the word "deputy." The representatives are also mentioned in the Law, paragraphs 50, 51. Really, a free circuit-related service. What they'll be like, I don't know, but bound to the provinces. We'll see when other provincial laws are passed. But this agent, the law says he works 12 hours a week. Although it says "at least", it can mean the most. From-to. 12 hours a week. Will he be able to cover the needs of the entire population in a region, a region? Question. I don't know that today on the basis of this law. Dear colleagues and colleagues! That's it. This agent is an unprofessional, unprofessional agent. And that can be, in my opinion, a big question about the law enforcement institute if you want. In short, there are more of these imperfections, inconsistencies, weaknesses. The amendments have not been tabled in vain, believe me. The amendments were not tabled because the opposition wanted to corrupt a phenomenal law. Far from it. They were invested because we wanted to point out where the law could be made more friendly or more accessible and useful to users. The one he's meant for. And when I mentioned it, my colleague Grill fixed me up so I didn't understand very well when I mentioned that the law was written for 2 million Slovenes and Slovenians. These were the words of the Secretary of State at the beginning of today's session in the presentation of the position. I just summarized them and warned them that I highly doubt that 2 million Slovenes and Slovenians will benefit from the rights enshrined in this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Grill answered the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u117	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to comment on the predecessor's statement that I mentioned, "what if it was written in a coalition contract." I have not expressed this in this sense, but I have said that the very expression in the coalition treaty does not reflect the fact that not now with such a law, such solutions actually achieve that goal. So just the name, as the coalition contract says, is irrelevant. As for the representative, his work obligations, all of this is summed up by the experiences of the Maribor lady, by her being one, but in this proposal we will now have as many as the province or even more, fourteen. And if it turns out that it will be less than twelve hours or more, it can also be improved by a calm soul; but now it shows all these experiences that it is more than appropriate. It's talking about regions again. It was the regions that were taken into account in this law that made a number of suggestions, especially the opposition colleagues of Cveta Zalokar Orazem. This has been taken into account by the fact that the transitional provisions stipulate that, by the time the regions are established, this role will be assumed by the Health Care Institute, which means that the representative will be able to function again. And we can have them in the next year, if this is established, nine. This means that the claims made here today are not entirely true. As for two million people, I hope that two million people will not get sick or need medical services during a certain period. But I think that each of us will need medical care, as well as marriage, if of course he wants it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! First of all, I'd like to apologize to Mr. Germich for stepping into his word. But I simply did this because he here, as chairman of the committee, interprets some things that, of course, they don't. Here he said that the Law on Patient Rights and the Law on Health Insurance dealt differently with the area of the replacement of a doctor. Without any of these laws, everyone in this country can choose a doctor whenever he wants, and whoever he wants, if only he wants to take it. This is indisputable, and you cannot speak here in front of the Slovenian public, people listen to it and understand it as if they have no right to replace a doctor. I've switched it myself at least three times, four times in my 20s. So this is arranged and we don't even need a special law because it already exists. And you, as chairman of the committee, can't interpret matters like this. And if you want to keep going. Your first case, mentioned above, also whether a patient is entitled to transport by ambulance, but someone has to decide. It's up to someone to decide. Does everyone have that right or what? How can we put this into the law if not in the way it says? To assess, then, whether his medical condition would be compromised if he took another transport rather than an ambulance. I don't know who to pay for it. Are you going to say that again? But as for this marriage, because you've all talked about it, you're not talking about the first amendment, you're talking about the marriage. I am not a member of this committee, but if I could say what is in public all the time, there is a large number of amendments that you have written, something similar to the resolution on higher education, of course a large majority of them by changing one word or one comma. I know because I was on the board, but I could watch it, and I could watch endless debates. The same story is here. And there's another area where she's not a guardian for the patient's rights. And now I'm gonna say it. In the congregations we received a letter from this Mariboran nanny. I didn't know, this is what I heard right now, that she was crying on the committee to make money for her work. A letter. So many people, so much so that each congregation can work. It's all good and good, but we get letters like that every day. Once an agency, twice another institution, third time this. I've got this half suitcase. Some in this country do not think about just how they will get to the state money or to the municipal money. We have a guardian of human rights. It has been said that this area can be arranged to somehow strengthen the rights of patients here in this institute. And that's it. How many more institutions are you planning to set up? On the other hand, we are burdening Slovenian taxpayers with all of this. More and more for the various institutions that sit and pay, and above all defend their personal interest. Such is my experience in all these years, which I am sitting in this Parliament and which I am experiencing as the mayor of one of the Slovenian municipalities. Everybody wants more! Only those who work behind liquid strips should get less every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Germich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Of course, the apology is accepted, Comrade Sok, and I think it is good that we are discussing the content in an corrective manner. That's all I want to say. I acted as rapporteur as chairman of the committee. I am now acting as a member of the LDS Club of Members, but it is a fact that I am the chairman of the Committee and I want to explain the amendment why the deletion is proposed. And I would also like to clarify once again if I have not been clear enough that if we have settled patients' rights in such a way that the procedures and the third paragraph of Article 1 refer to the fact that health insurance rights, the way they are enforced, are determined by specific laws. I tried to explain two cases so that there could be a duality. If we write in this law that the right to choose a doctor is free, and in the second law we have the right to replace a doctor, then someone who reads the texts of one and the other law can use different complaint procedures for the same content. That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, it makes sense to regulate rights in one package and the way a complaint is made in one package. That was my point. And the second time I was talking about the right to transport by ambulance, I was again trying to find a parallel between one law and another, the right given by one law and by another law, and the possibility that someone who would have the feeling that his right to transport by means of a ambulance was violated would be able to enforce this in a procedure under one law, i.e. the Health Insurance Act, while at the same time assessing that the right to adequate health care had been violated and would be able to enforce procedures under another law. This was my point in the debate and this is also the point of the amendment, which deletes this duality or the possibility of this duality. We don't expect people to be so specific about what we think we know or, let's just say, we know. They won't. And here's the point of that, and, colleague Sok, here was, if I was a little less clear earlier, the point of my debate. And we, as legislators, are obliged to write down a clear, correct law and to hear the answers when we have dilemmas in a way that eliminates our dilemmas. But if the dilemmas remain, then it must be admitted that the solutions in marriage are worse than they could be if I did not use the expression that they are bad. And here on this particular substantive case was a justification for why we are proposing a deletion. However, I agree that this deletion can reach into the further concept of this law. But we point out that it was time to settle this, and that didn't work out. And now we are at a stage where we can again warn and warn about these things in a way that we propose deleting this paragraph in Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u122	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u123	Thank you very much. It is difficult to listen in the National Assembly to be proud of such a marriage. I think that we are Members of the responsible person and that we are not fooling around with our work, but we are adopting such legislation that allows our citizens and citizens a better and easier life. And it is this law that makes it easier for patients to get to a solution. During their illness, patients are most vulnerable, most vulnerable, and therefore had to walk from door to door, pass the pins to get a lot of basic information. We want to fix this and lay down these rights in one law in order to make it easier to get to their rights in one place. In practice, it has been shown that more than the content of individual rights is a lack of a proper procedure for the exercise of these rights. Procedures are often complicated, unclear and sometimes impossible and disguised. And don't mind me, but I could say so, because in the previous term, we could adopt a law that you think would be better than you suggest. True, there may be a duality, perhaps in some cases too, but at the level of the coalition we have decided that such a concept of law is the best. This law is not bad; this law truly provides for rights, the way rights are exercised, the precise procedure is determined by the representative. And the representative will also advise patients in the event of the exercise of health insurance rights and will also guide them in what way they should exercise them. For the time being, the law is prepared in this context, in this context, I think we will continue and also adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u124	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have heard insults in this House today. I think it's an insult to those who aren't here. And I will allow myself, and I will defend those who are not here, not least because I've already received some messages and they're watching us. We are watched by representatives of the patient associations and monitored the debate and also reported on their views. These insults are important, not those between us, whether the opposition is offended or in position. It doesn't matter to me. But I think today was again unacceptable, insulting and humiliating to the civil society that participated in the committee meeting, and I will also say to the letter we received. And it's an open letter, there's no one hiding here, it's signed, by the Forum of Chronic Patients Associations. It was addressed to all of us. And to say that it's some society that was established just to break this law, it's really a little bad. This company was established or began to be established more than six months ago. And I'm going to list some societies that are establishing a forum for chronic patients. This is Europe Dona society, which we all know well, [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] ; well, also the minister was in it, yes; it is the Society of Heart Operated, it is the Society of Patients called the Heart, it is the association of societies for osteoporosis, it is the association of associations of kidney patients, it is the Association of Asthma, a disease that is the Union of Associations with Lymphoma, it is the Society of Up which covers mental patients. [[...]] In short, these are the founders of this forum, which you have today insulted that it was set up, a little bit not to overthrow the ruling coalition. This society also wrote in its letter: "In the European patient forum, the European patient forum where we join"; that is, at European level they will also work; "with them we are already working, and they have opened the door wide open for us. Members of the European Parliament have also opened the door to us, and here we are..." And they made three dots. It wasn't an open door. And that's hard to listen to, and that's why it's the nicest thing to accuse them of being once again one of those crowds of plots that they're plotting at all ends and places against the existing government. And since unfortunately they're not here, you have to stand up for them. If you continue to speak abusively against all these societies, I will continue to speak. That's what I'm telling you. The amendment was prepared to explain, because we will not have the opportunity to talk about this amendment, so that some of the resources for the promotion of information and information on patients' rights would be allocated to the state budget, because these societies are doing so, whether we recognize it or not, whether we are going to give them a 'fik'k', as the coalition MP said they are doing. And this amendment has not been adopted. We don't want to give a few tolars or euros for what they're doing. And that's your attitude towards the civil society sphere. And unfortunately today, patients listen very well, representatives of societies. Even in this session where you say it, and it was also a insulting thing for me when the cameras left, everyone left the hall. That's not true. We spent three hours there arguing about three amendments. People work voluntarily in these societies. There was Mrs. Strojinova from Europe, Donna, there was the president of the Oncological Patients Society. And these were the people who spent hours and hours in this area, but unfortunately they said, sorry, we don't understand you, and they went and were disappointed. That's how it was, that's a fact. Either this may or may not fall upon your hearts and your souls, but you must attribute this to yourself after the many warnings we have given you. Moreover, Mrs Scepter, I think it is a symbol of what someone is supposed to do, either as an agent or as a guardian of the patient's rights. Today, to say that you're being "fought" in order to be participated. Given that there is no other guardian, people from all over Slovenia are turning, I will say, too humiliating, because I think that, at least as I have information, she was doing her work properly, well, committed. And even the fact that there has been some kind of conflict in this law cannot be the reason why the arrow and the criticism now focus on it. And everything you said earlier to your colleagues in your position, I have to say, it wasn't taken into account, you mentioned everything that was taken into account. I say correctly, you have taken very good account of the proposal made by the Alliance of Youth Friends regarding the presence of parents when the child is ill. But many things, even conceptual ones, have not been taken into account. And you have to admit that. It has not been taken into account, you yourself said that you would have had a guardian, but you force and you are confident that the 75-member commission is a good solution. Most of the patients' associations have not been convinced, you must admit. Here's even the core of the problem, this huge committee called the government, which means it won't be independent, it won't be independent. And that's the problem we all have with it. And you don't want to hear here that it's a problem that we want to be independent. I have suggested that such a person be appointed by the National Assembly to get some legitimacy, to know that he is a respected person and that he also has a neutral function. No, it'll be called by the government, so it'll be someone at work again. The whole pyramid of the institute is unprofessional, and for me, it's an extremely inappropriate arrangement. With a colleague saying that only from the health insurance field do we get a thousand complaints a day in the country! A thousand a day if there's 360 grand a year! We think that these people will be able to do their job 12 hours a week, and they will all be non-professionals, all on the committee, including the president and all the representatives. I cannot agree with such a solution because it is already embedded in this that it is not actually a problem. Yes, it is! There is a problem in this transition society in the field of health. That is why we should establish this matter more fundamentally professionally and not just as it was said on the committee, where you heard that there are a lot of pensioners who could do it in their free time. That's what was said. And for me, it's a humiliating relationship. Furthermore, I continue to make sure that the majority of the Commission will be in the field of health care. Yes, dear fellows, this one's a little too heavy. Doctors will control themselves and crow eyes will not rule out. We should do better to make this institute truly independent, independent, even on some details, to be called the National Assembly and so on. And here we would also get a round of applause from societies that bring together patients from different fields, and then we could all be satisfied, as Mrs Zupanova says. Unfortunately, there will be a very, very bitter taste in this marriage, I can tell you, that we have not prepared the most optimal solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Jazbec, you weren't appointed. Mr. Grill will be able to sign up for Mrs. Potty, who now has a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker! I will support the LDS amendment to delete the third paragraph because I think the explanation of this amendment is logical, good and alerts or eliminates by deleting at least part of the problems that will be faced by those who want to exercise their rights under this law because they will be limited to health insurance rights and their way of applying them. What's this all about? First of all, I would like to point out that, in so purely true terms, as all the comments have been taken into account, this does not prove to be true because civil associations have also recommended a change in the title of the law. We also offered a solution so that the word "patient" could be included in Article 2, where the clarification of the terms could be included instead of "patient", and that it could be adequately explained in such a way that matters were appropriate. The following will also add to the statement that the law should be called "the Law on Patient Rights and Duties." There is also the absurdity of this law. If this is a law on patient rights, then it is a law on rights, such as human rights and there is no need to moralize that we also have responsibilities. Because if something's not right, then it's guilt or something else that I'm doing and can be penalized. And if this right limit is that I have to do something for this right, it's defined in that one way or another. Therefore, I do not agree with the first paragraph and with that appendix at the end of the first paragraph. A specific logical analysis is necessary for what is stated in the second paragraph. The purpose of this Act is to provide equal, adequate, quality and safe health care. Now I ask you, what are the attributes of quality health care? Is not good medical care also related to the fact that what this provision is intended for is also appropriate at a certain point in time? And if care is appropriate, is it also of quality, or is it not limited to what you wrote in paragraph 3? It is only appropriate to keep me alive and nothing else. What is now being interpreted behind me by someone else and things else understands, I want to say that language competences are very important in the name of individual things and that is why laws must be written so that they can read and understand those which are intended for them. What is stated in this law and in this article, however, is indirectly because the law defines the subject and the purpose of the law needs another additional explanation. While this will go beyond Article 1 in its content, it is still necessary to tell all those who are now very much bragging about how this has been aligned with civil society with the proposal of the law and other things that have actually happened. In the second reading, the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, which it dealt with in the second instance before the mother’s working body, also notified itself as an interested working body for this law. It did not seem necessary for anyone from the Ministry of Health to inform the Commission of the agreement reached by the Ministry with the Chairman of the Health Committee to be postponed, as did no one from the Ministry of Health, even though the members of the Government were invited to our committee, it was not worth announcing either with an apology or with an explanation or with anything. In short, the Ministry of Health and Government seems to take the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities as the largest coalition party, only as a political treatment platform. What we have experienced on the committee is a sad story about how the coalition understands civil society participation in laws: in the drafting of laws and in the handling of laws. Civil society representatives also have the right to their opinion on behalf of freedom of speech, and, as today, they have been given inappropriate qualifications and perceptions on the Commission. That's unacceptable. As unacceptable as the current talk about the Ombudsman, Mrs. Magda Szezlina from Maribor. This lady was appointed guardian in the city council of the Municipality of Maribor, she was elected, democratically. Yes, the appointment, as it was necessary to obtain an appropriate number of votes for the decision to enter into force. And this lady, in general, is also doing her work in a high-quality manner to the public. It works for a number of patients from northeastern Slovenia as well as other parts of Slovenia. And if now it is only necessary for a mayor to come forward with a letter and expect participation for the Ombudsman's Institute, which also works for the benefit of the people, then it is, excuse me, a regrettable statement. I always thought that beloved representatives of the people had a duty to be in the service of men and that what is in their favor is not too much for them to do. And it is far too much now to talk about these things as to how this law will have good effects if we also listen to such statements. I am very sorry to hear this, and I am very sorry that someone in the National Assembly made such a statement along with those statements that went to the expense of civil society. I therefore find it further regrettable that this National Assembly has not been able to support the recommendation in the Ombudsman's report on the need for civil society participation or participation in the drafting of laws to be regulated. But it's not arranged as it is now that they decide in ministries that they've spoken to representatives of civil society. But then what they really said and what civil society has achieved is another thing. And I am sorry that those Members who have heard the Ombudsman on the petitions committee and on human rights and equal opportunities who have said that the Ombudsman's comments have not been taken into account, because they are said to have lost their comments, now they claim that their comments have been taken into account. It's a question of when and how. It is therefore not surprising that, at the end of the second examination of the law as an interested working body, the Commission concluded by recommending that the mother labour body take into account the recommendations of civil society. But what civil society should think about it, what it's heard today, is its business, and I'm not teaching it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u128	Thank you. I'm opening up. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me, perhaps a somewhat unspecified procedural proposal, but given that we voted today on the draft agenda for this meeting, that a proposal for the withdrawal of one item of the agenda was put forward and that the procedure in the National Assembly or practice was such that it was necessary to submit a provisional application before these events which I mentioned occurred are said to have been withdrawn from the agenda, not least in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or in particular Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the parliamentary group may divide the maximum time of application between five points, please move the sent-out group of the Slovenian National Party to those 10 minutes from the point which was subsequently withdrawn from the agenda to this item of the agenda. Please, if you take this procedural proposal into account, we ourselves were not aware of the proposal or intention of the government coalition, which then came into reality.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u130	Mrs Žgajner Tavš, the timetable, the announcement of time is being considered and decided by the College, the College has decided on this. I'm reopening the debate. You've had it before, Mrs. Zginer Tavš. Check-in is on. Mr. Koren has the floor. Mrs Žgajner Tavš, let us stop with procedural proposals that you know well when they are in place and when they are not, when they are feasible and when they are not. You have a chance to sign up, and you'll talk. Mr. Koren, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u131	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the general debate, when we first discussed this law, we all talked about how important this law on patient rights is. I wondered why we really needed such a marriage. The answer was quite simple because things in our health care are not what they would allow, I would say, normal activity or action so that all patients can be satisfied. When we had a general discussion, it was clear from all the parliamentary groups how they supported this law, which is being considered, that there should be some detail to be added, supplemented, amended. In general, we were only looking at the Ombudsman in this general debate. Today, when we have a second reading, when a lot of comments were made here in the National Assembly, as a professional public, as interested public were taken into account, but today obviously things are much worse than they were at the first reading of this law. I just can't understand it. We complement it, we improve it, but it's still worse than it was when we had a general debate. I ask myself, when we discuss this law, and I advocate that patients and patients have their rights. And it's only right that these rights are realized. However, we also need to know the opportunities we have to ensure these rights, which we will write down in law. There is no point in writing rights that we know will not be possible today. They'd make a fool of themselves. When I mentioned earlier that the health situation was not what we wanted. Why do we have such a shortage of doctors, I wonder. Why do we have such a shortage of nurses? Is that Dr. Bayuk's fault? For in the National Assembly, Dr. Bayuk is primarily responsible for everything that is wrong. Is that why it is Janša’s government that has not ruled for four years? I say, who hasn't ruled for four years, [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I think we need to take matters seriously, because making fun of patients is really not appropriate. [[...]] As long as he's healthy, he doesn't know what kind of trouble he can get into. I support the adoption of an appropriate law on patient rights that will help those patients in distress to be properly treated in the treatment process and similar procedures. As far as the representative of the patient's rights is concerned, I think it's appropriate to introduce this institute. I say, that's more than that. In the case of the Ombudsman, they will continue to do all that the Ombudsman may do. I think that the duplication of institutions and the fragmentation of tasks to be performed by the Ombudsman in all his field is not good and I do not see the need to exclude patients' rights here. I'm sure the marriage is good, I'm not going to say I couldn't be better, but it brings a lot of things that we don't have so far, and it will certainly have many, many positive consequences, especially for sick people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u132	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say, I'm glad you listened to me at least this time. The 69th Rule of the Rules of Procedure makes it clear that a Member wishing to speak on the application of the Rules of Procedure is told when it comes to the procedural question that the President should speak as soon as he requests it. Thank you very much, or even though I received the floor after the second Member's five-minute performance. Allow me to proceed with the drafting of my procedural question. I know that the College of the National Assembly sets the time for each item of the agenda. But given that new facts have arisen since the last college, today at a meeting that one point has been withdrawn, I would ask you again, or because you say that the College has to decide on this, I propose a procedural proposal to suspend the meeting if you cannot do so yourself, you call the College and set a new time. It is simple - and I believe that you can do this, and there is no big exception, in accordance with Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, to how many items of the agenda can the sending group be set a maximum time. I very much ask you to follow my procedural proposal, but I also thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u134	Mrs Žgajner Tavš, first of all let me remind you that we have never interrupted and given our words to the person who wanted to make a procedural proposal in the midst of a single Member's speech. I think it would be very rude for Mr Koren or any of them. Secondly, I will put your proposal to the vote at the earliest possible moment, as it is said, tomorrow in the framework of the vote. And I'm asking you to re-propose the suspension and decision-making of the College on these matters. Mr. Jazbec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u135	Thank you very much. It is amazing what masters of the conversion of sentences and words are some in this House. When I mentioned in one previous implementation that 95 % and more of the comments of all companies and the interested public were taken into account in the law under consideration, I said, among other things, that it certainly did not take into account the comments of the Association of Chronic Patients of Slovenia, which was only in the establishment and submitted its proposals on 12.12., this was yesterday and it began to be established probably the day before. That's right. However, just as some have turned this around, it certainly has not been said in the National Assembly on my part. The way in which most of the board has health care and that is inappropriate is also a lot of deliberation. The law states that each case is dealt with by a Senate composed of 3 members, of which one is a lawyer and the lawyer is the mandatory chairman of this Chamber, one of the professions and one proposed by civil society and is a member of this commission. Therefore, these explanations and falsifications of the facts are really inappropriate to do so in front of cameras and we give such information to the Slovenian public, who have no justification and do not really write these things in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues from LDS and the Society of Zares. I'm going to tell you about your fraud, and I'm going to tell you about a couple of cases with respect to the law you filed a year or two ago. In Article 1, you have exactly the same provision: Health insurance rights and their way of applying them are laid down by a special law. Now would you remove such matters? Please. The National Party or the President of the National Party, when commenting on this bill, wrote: This law is a copy of the former old Kebro law, which the Liberal Democracy has tabled in order to outrun the Government so that it does not submit its own. This law is so confused from all ends and places that it is inconsistent and so on. And that it is, just two or three more articles to have a sense of what this is all about. Article 10 states as one important patient's right to be informed in writing about the order of health institutions. I think this is really very important for the patient. Then the independence of the commission or the guardian. Again, it was a solution in this law: 'Varuhe appoints and disposes of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister of Health'. There's a similar way here. It's all wrong. Isn't that right, Mrs. Orzmova? In Article 41, each party in the proceedings shall normally bear its costs of the procedure. In this law, when an agent is free, when the Commission can actually justify the socially at risk of any cost, everything is wrong again. Wrong world. Today, we can once again hear that Members of the ruling coalition are misbehaving towards the Ombudsman of the patient's rights, Mrs Szezlinova. That's not true. Her work is highly respected by me, and I believe that each of us, and I thank you that she has worked so hard in this area to help those who needed help. And even if her proposals were not taken into account, she did not. They did. Even her system of work has gone up. It is true, however, that the concept of the guardian was not taken into account here, since the concept is completely different from that of the law. So don't say it's any kind of discreditation of Mrs. Szezlinova. No, no, no. A lot of good practice, all of its methods are taken into account here. The composition of the commission that the public will not be misinformed. It's true. It's a 75-member commission. But why is it 75? Of these, 1/3 consists of proposals from NGOs. But out of these 75 members, they're going to be made up of so-called Senate. It means that we can put together 25 three-member Chambers at the same time, which means that at the same time they can handle 25 complaints at the second level, if necessary. That's the purpose. And it's said here again that the interests of the medical profession or doctors will be protected. In this committee or in this Chamber, only one of the professions will always be represented, otherwise one representative of a non-governmental organisation, one lawyer and also a representative of the profession, which can be the only doctor or, say, a pharmacist, if this is an area of any other area of infringement. About the composition or who's supposed to be the agent. This is supposed to be defined in the law: a respected one with sufficient education and experience. And I think that this can be the most optimal choice, that an agent will be a man who will be respected in his own environment, who will have authority if he calls an institution over the phone, that everyone will realize that it is a person who is worthy to believe it. And this is the purpose of this representative to make it this way. And even so, the thought that Mr Germič had previously made when he was here, although he was a little controversial, I don't think he was convincing. He was comparing two marriages, replacing a doctor to face some big problem. I'm sure if someone wants to switch doctors, they're gonna turn the phone, they're gonna call the agent, and he's gonna tell him for free, you can do this without any problems. No controversy, no dilemma will be for anyone. However, it is right for each of the Members to do so by the media, so that whoever has the opportunity to inform our patients that we will have such a law, to try to find it, will be able to benefit them practically. If the patients know that, they'll use it. If we do this our mission, we will do the best we can not needlessly dispute here about things they do not hold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Member of the Zalokar Orazem Flowers applied to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, say good-bye to the Minister! I'm glad she's here, but I'm sad you weren't on the board. If not the other than the former member of Europe, Dona would see how much disappointment there is among the members of your former society and perhaps you have some time left because you are with us today to listen to this, not least there have been some good moves on your part. I also publicly commended them, and I can do it again today. The instruction regarding concessions for congregations is a good work that will result in much benefit in the congregations. With regard to the law that we filed a year and a half ago, and not a year ago, as was said, I must say that this was the law, and we have also said that there was a provocation, provocation and encouragement, which we submitted only because there was no law after two years. And we kind of wanted to cause the government to wake up and prepare their marriage. Since we had only one option, we do not have the whole apparatus on us, and all the options the Government and the Ministry have, we then passed this law. I also made it clear and loud that many of the solutions in that marriage, perhaps at that time we also said that, were not the best, but that we wanted to prepare and start with the preparation of a good marriage. And you have had the opportunity to prepare this law for three years. I've already said, some things in this law are good, some solutions are right, some guidelines are right, and some conceptual solutions are doubtful. I spoke about this earlier, and in this sense I still believe that the message with this 75-member committee, in which there are definitely at least 42 people and health professionals, is bad. Secondly, if we have already opened this subject, it is also bad that only lawyers, economists and highly educated health professionals can sit after education in such a commission. Mrs Szezlina could never become a member of this Commission in this constant force. And we have proposed that this extend to other professions in the field of humanities, such as special pedagogy, psychology and the like. This was also rejected without explanation, without arguments, because I do not know why they are good economists, but why a psychologist should not sit in it. Where is the economist's real activity for this committee, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u140	Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem you are limited in time in the context of the replica, but of course you are welcome in the context of the debate. My colleague, Cvetka Zalokar Orzam, I believe you've noticed that I'm only now starting to run the session. Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, Madam Secretary and the team! We still have before us Article 1 and the amendment to Article 1, which is summarized in four paragraphs. But there is two hours of debate behind us. And here perhaps the contents of the mecca of colleague Soka are justified that we will not discuss Article 1 for five hours, perhaps only the method of mecca was not good. And the first article, what he is talking about, we often hear about a lot of other things, which Article 1 does not decide and does not specify, and the amendment to Article 1 speaks something about what my colleague, Germić, spoke most about. I will not repeat this, but I will quote again that it would not take another two hours, and I would not want to do so, as we are talking about in Article 1. This law lays down the rights which a patient or patient has as a user or user of health services in all health service providers or providers, procedures for the exercise of such rights where these are infringed and associated with these rights. This is a different law than it used to be, and this law is supposed to speak of all the rights of patients. And the amendment to this Article 1 in the third paragraph states that we would adhere to this law when it comes to patients' rights so that different people, in different places, do not decide on patients' rights under different laws. And it takes two hours for us not to be able to tell each other this, although when I listened to my colleague Sok, especially my colleague Zupanovo and also the Koren, when they talk about the exact same thing as Germič and some others. But what bothers me is the essence of two hours. Because my colleague Zupanova said, "We've set up such a framework, it's not going to be any different." Because you don't want to accept the fact that the solution you're talking about, because you've made up your mind, it's not going to be any different. This is a mistake and we are wasting time for free and we are still talking about Article 1 and the amendment, because you have decided to do so and do not accept anything, even though you are discussing yourself in this direction. I think that at the time of the debate, when we had support at first reading, the same thing happened as what we were talking about here was said by the Minister. We're on a dead end today because you don't want to support the solutions that you're fighting for. I'm only going to say one more thing, which isn't entirely related to this, but briefly. Those of us who were in the previous term can remember - I am sorry that colleague Soka is not here because he will probably replicate me - when colleague Sok was not yet mayor and opposition Member, he was at least among the first five who spoke exclusively about the rights of citizens and citizens, what they must receive, without considering the financial consequences. I may even agree with him today that he is right in his own way. What do you want us to do if we don't have the money? That's what we've heard from others before. What a transformation! You rarely experience such stories and let us try a little differently, with a little more objectivity and see that this amendment to Article 1 brings what you want to achieve. And we could have closed the discussion two hours ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'm opening a re-entry circuit in conjunction with Article 1 of the General Rule. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. I hope you won't take my word for it because there will be some kind of replica, or maybe I will remind someone of my previous mandate. Of course, I agree with the predecessor in many ways when he spoke about transformation, but I would also like to remind him of his transformation, which was just as great. There was nothing to be supported for you in the previous term, nothing to do, and now all of a sudden you have made such a leap and such a transformation, and we want to achieve everything that should be paid for because some initiative wants something. This, of course, does not mean that it would not be good, but it is. I want to remind you of the same transformation, only in the opposite direction, but now the roles have changed. Mr. Geza Juban, that's exactly what happened. How many things were in the previous mandate - for example, you mentioned Mr Sok, who demanded them, and you were also the ones who found that this was not possible. Today, however, you have experienced a wonderful transformation, and you find out how everything would be possible and necessary and how to support everything. That's what I wanted to tell you, if we're talking about transformation, let's be honest and fair and find out that it was the same on both sides. I'm only talking about two names. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague of Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u145	Thank you very much. As many compromises as have been in previous governments, when coalition parties have pacted with the opposition, you will never have. But in this Article 1 - I will return to the matter that we are dealing with - in this Article we want to achieve by this amendment that we do not increase the complications, that more people will in several ways cause more costs, save in different ways, but only in one way - by this law that we have before us. And that's what your coalition MPs are talking about. That's the story. And if, in a way that we have once made compromises, you would say little, but maybe this opposition amendment is "satisfying" because we are talking about it, we would have closed the matter a long time ago, at least, I don't know, an hour earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We are moving on to Article 2, which is subject to three amendments. We will hold a debate on all three amendments at the same time, but please, at the beginning of your possible debate, indicate which amendment concerns. So, we have three amendments tabled in Article 2, the first on the side of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the second on the side of the Zares Group and the third on the side of the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u147	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the framework of our amendment, I would focus mainly on two points, where with point 19a and point 19b in the definition of concepts, we want to return two concepts to the text of the law: "safety complication" and "health". So there are two very important concepts that the amendment of the coalition has outlined on the committee. Of course, it was surprising that at the time of deletion there was no important explanation for the reasons for this deletion. That the uncertainty was so much greater, the Secretary of State only intervened in the debate and assessed that the two concepts should remain in the text of the law. And what are these two definitions talking about? The first definition speaks of a safety complication and the second after the concept of treatment. And it is very important how we will vote on this, because, in fact, the security complication appears in some of the following articles, and specifically relates to a particular chapter or a specific chapter, to the procedure of how we deal with a possible security complication. So we're talking about a possible security complication, not a security complication as a fact that exists in itself, but a possibility. Here we understood the proposer that by introducing these concepts he wanted to show that he was trying to ensure as much patient safety as possible at a time when he was receiving medical care. So that's the point of that concept. And we also understood this as a proposaler's effort, in line with the Luxembourg Declaration on Patient Safety, because, according to the latter, i.e. the Luxembourg Declaration, patients have the right to expect that all efforts will be made to ensure their safety. Of course, it must be said that the health system itself is in a field of high risk, where adverse events arising from medical treatment and not from the nature of the disease can lead to death or other serious injury to the patient. The latest data show that almost half of all adverse events that can be avoided occur as a result of a medical error. Therefore, we estimate that health care must be organised in a way that prevents adverse events as much as possible. Therefore, it is an effective prevention of adverse events, which means that it is a matter of preventing adverse events which are essential or of exceptional importance, and therefore their perception, treatment and reporting is essential. So it's a very important area to detect. So the perception of this event is extremely important in ensuring the safety of patient rights. Thus, by investigating the safety complication, the law was well on track to achieve effective prevention and transparency in health care in general. Therefore, a prerequisite for effective risk management is an open working environment with an established culture that focuses on learning in cases, i.e. on learning in cases rather than on the guilt and punishment of the persons involved. Well, that's the key point. The investigation of contingencies is aimed at identification, in order not to repeat negative practices. Here is the basic guidance, on the point that this investigation is also being conducted as a sample example of non-repetition of errors. And, of course, it is surprising that the draft law contains both this definition and a specific chapter intended to investigate the security complication, while the amendments simply exempt it without an in-depth substantive justification. That's what's And instead of a security investigation, it introduces what's called internal control. So it's a substantial change in the very content of the law, which we don't think is good. So we suggest we bring you back in. At the same time, with the support of the amendment to Article 2, we are also asking you to support the following articles, which will talk about the return of the investigation into the possible security complication. Otherwise, it will not be possible to understand that we want to ensure the patient's overall safety, the safety of a patient who can happen as an unexpected complication, for example, in medical treatment itself. And, of course, if that is not the case, the question is whether we will follow the Oviet Convention, which requires that the affected patient be granted fair compensation. Therefore, the Law on Patient Rights is not intended to distinguish and disassembly the guilt and prescribe sanctions against healthcare professionals, but to ensure that an investigation procedure is conducted that is fair to the patient and reduces the risk of recurrence of the same adverse event in the same or other patients. We therefore propose that you support this amendment. At the same time, we propose that the concept of "health" should be returned to the definition of concepts, because in this way, with the amendment's amendment, I think it is losing the quality of this law, because it would no longer be possible to ensure the protection of patients' rights in diagnostic procedures and preventive procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u148	Thank you very much. The word has been delivered by the Member of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Actually, the amendments are identical. Colleagues in LDS have tabled or we have tabled the same amendment. In substance, it seems to me that colleague Germič very well explained it and argued that I had nothing to add. I would like to say, however, that these are actually the amendments that have taken place in the situation raised by colleague Žgajner Tavševa. When the Secretary of State said that this was a good solution, then he got some sharp views from the other side of the table, from the coalition MPs, unfortunately he had to break down with the ashes and say that these solutions, or nothing else, were said, so I will say until the end of the meeting. I think that, in order for the content or precise clarification of the concept of "security complication" to be returned, this proposal is also made by Dr Trontel, President of the Ethics Commission. So I think that this is one of those amendments, which is strictly, strictly professional, as my colleague Geza Juban used to say, in fact, it is only necessary to say that maybe this is something that needs to be accepted. And I hope that this amendment to the 2nd article will show some reasonableness, however, because this is a completely apolitical matter. Many of us have also been warned in these days, however, that it makes sense to say about the security complication what it is, although we must say that this is also quite in the interest of a number of matters, where, in fact, there are some unexpected things that occur many times and which should be defined in some way in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that again. I am also one of those who advocate that marriage must be clear and that patients must understand the concepts enshrined in the law. I agree with that and I think that this is no secret and taboo topic in this country, that patients are often violated their rights, that is why we accept this law, and that as such they are often powerless. So they enter into a relationship as an ignorant party in the process if I express myself in the legal sense of the word, and expect a doctor on the other hand to explain it to them in an understandable way. So I would ask myself here in this amendment that perhaps because there is no government opinion written here to write down what the government thinks about this amendment. However, I would like to say, since I had not previously had the opportunity to replicate my colleague Juban, that I have always been a defender of rights, and that in Article 1, we did not talk about rights as such, but about who should care for these rights in the legal sense of the word. But I'm not here to have a lot of institutions in this area, because if a lot of institutions are doing this, then we end up getting the result that no one is actually worried because there are too many. We have a strong institution of the Ombudsman and I myself tend to strengthen this institution in the field of health, but not to introduce a new guardian for the health field and then again for the third area of a new guardian, because then we divorce the matter, but not concentrate and do not solve problems. I would advise my colleague Juban not to undermine it in such a way, but in fact, if he responds, to respond to what was said in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, will you identify yourself to the amendments tabled by Members and Members? I'll close this chapter later, so that won't be possible. Either you define yourself now or you don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. The two keywords that were given would briefly be answered: once on treatment and once on a safety complication. So, the concept of "health" was, with amendments adopted on the committee, lined up by the fact that the law had misused a number of related concepts, such as health care, medical care, health care, health care, health care and treatment. Thus, from the term “health” and from most articles, its content - interventions to prevent disease and to strengthen health, diagnostics, therapy, rehabilitation, health care - has been included in the extended definition of “health care” in the law. So, 'health care' was and remains the broadest term that we have not yet completed with the concept of 'health' in relation to the safety complication. "Safety complication" as a term has never been introduced into any of the material rights. The definition of a safety complication is not specific enough either from a medical point of view or from a legal point of view and therefore incomplete, which makes it inappropriate. This term is not standardised and for this reason it was not clearly defined to medical error, to complication and to near-complexity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u154	Thank you. I'm asking you, for the first time, if you turn it off. And secondly, when you talk to the National Assembly, you also stand by the usual practice. Thank you very much. I know you'll pay attention. Anyone else want another word in connection with Article 2? Comrade Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary! Of course, I cannot agree with your argument so easily. Firstly, "medication" was the concept that you put down, including diagnostics and prevention, while the new concept that you are introducing instead cannot be understood in this context and it is a fundamental change in the content that has been explained in the text of the bill itself, as it is now written by deleting this concept. The other thing is "safety complication". I have clearly and clearly defined it. A security complication and a security complication investigation has no purpose, and I don't understand it myself in terms of finding the culprit. That's not what this is about. I've made it clear and loud, a security complication is happening. The security complication, I was taught by the medics, and it was a consultation, and also on the basis of Professor Trontl's debate on the committee itself, on the basis of the thinking, your Secretary of State, that this is an important concept that should remain, you are very unconvincing. You can nod, but very important representatives of the profession say that this is a very important matter and very important is the case in the Law on Patient Rights itself. And that's what the Luxembourg Declaration says about the patient's safety, and they talk about the data that tells us that there's a kind of error or a kind of complications in medical treatment itself. In fact, you are now deleting this as the content of this law and on the basis of an investigation which, on the basis of the introduction of this concept, takes place in the very process of determining the patient's claim that his right has been violated. So you're eliminating it. And you know that in practice we have cases today, including in the courts that are talking about it. And to talk about those who seek these rights going from court to court, waiting for certain reasons, going to courts outside our country. It seems correct to me that the security complication is seen as a real fact that we are treating it in a way that is not seen as a search for the culprit, so we will punish it, but that in some cases we will avoid wrong practices, bad practices so that it does not happen again. Therefore, I think that the applicant has very poorly justified the reasons why this should be deleted and you continue to make such an unconvincing argument today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. I will undoubtedly support both amendments. There was a broad debate on this issue on the working body. I believe that the representative of the Ministry remembers that he was present. However, I will also draw attention to the opinion that some of my fellow Members have taken before me or pointed out to him. Professor Jože Trontel, Dr. In his comments, the President of the Commission on Medical Ethics made it clear that it makes sense for the article to remain unchanged in this part. It is said that the amendment proposed by the government coalition is not supported. Article 2 speaks of the meaning of the terms. Unless we clarify under this Article what "security complication" means, this means that we simply do not recognise the safety complication in practice, it is not. That's right! This is the official position of Professor Trontl, who has participated, I believe that, very professionally justified in this law. Why do we not get this explanation by the Ministry representatives in such a form that it would be very difficult to challenge a professionally reasoned comment after my assessment - even as it relates to treatment, given that this term is then used in future articles or in subsequent articles of the law? If, once again, Article 2 itself, where terms mean, are not clearly defined, then there is a high probability that we will simply not recognise security complications in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? No, then I conclude the debate in conjunction with the three amendments to Article 2. We are moving on to Article 14 and the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club. Anybody want a word? Comrade Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Article 14 speaks of waiting times and waiting periods. In paragraph 10 of this Article, we are talking about health service providers providing telephone and electronic ordering and organising work without waiting for the patient. And we propose to make a dot here and to delete the text "for longer than necessary". I think that if we leave this text as it is now written in this paragraph, so that the patient does not wait, but not longer than necessary, we will always have reason to wait for patients. If we introduce a phone order, if we introduce an electronic order, then let's organize that the patient is not waiting. Well, it's simple: it's not waiting. As soon as we allow the definition of 'longer than necessary', we provide a number of reasons that will re-enable ways to justify the need to wait for patients. Therefore, we propose that that part of this sentence should be completed, so that the work is organised so that the patient does not wait and delete the following text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u160	Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm going to open a computer application. Here you go, please. Comrade Ivan Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. See, in waiting rows, things can always be interpreted in one way or another or understood. However, by deleting this text, as proposed by the Liberal Democracy, I do not think that the matter would be better in any way even for a millimeter. After all, waiting periods do not appear because of the way we list them. In this article of the law, it is well defined that waiting types can or may be listed by telephone or by e-mail, which is a great relief to our patients. However, waiting periods occur where health service providers cannot do so immediately. Therefore, the diction in the original text actually sums up very precisely so that it does not wait longer than is necessary. And that is the basic purpose, so I see no reason for this amendment to be confirmed and I will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 14. We are moving on to Article 15, where we are meeting with the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate envisaged. We turn to Article 16 or the amendment to Article 16 proposed by the Desus Group. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to Article 17 as well as to the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We move on to the 20th article, where we have the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Comrade Ljubo Germich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u163	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. In Article 20, we are talking about the right to inform the patient and 'explanatory duties'. Therefore, under this right, it is recognised to the patient that, in order to exercise the right to self-determination of treatment and the right to participate in the treatment process, "must be informed about" - and in the various indents, it also appears as the fifth indent that it must be informed of procedures and treatments that are not available in the Republic of Slovenia or are not a compulsory health insurance right. Where is our thought on this line? Our thinking on this line is a simple reason to do so, and in recent times, it is increasingly happening that doctors direct patients to certain services in the afternoon, that is, outside the public service. And our fear arises from the fact that, if certain rights from compulsory health insurance and certain rights are to be exercised by the same doctor outside of compulsory health insurance, there may be a likelihood that the patient could be directed to the provision of health services that are not subject to compulsory health insurance, while allowing this provision of health services for payment. Of course, we are talking about fear, we are talking about the thoughts we have, we are also talking about warnings. I would only talk here about the experience of the first medical assistance, where it is about advertising for the provision of health services that can already be included in compulsory health insurance, but of course we can imagine that the ambition of someone will also be to move the provision of certain health services into self-paying activities. And here we are trying to justify the reasons why we are proposing this deletion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Comrade Ivan Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. See, this particular indent actually contributes significantly to our patient's greater right to be informed about ways and also treatment options, if, for example, such treatment in Slovenia is not for various reasons or, say, we do not yet have a registered medicine in Slovenia that is possible in another country, but it is known whether we may not have specialists or anything. And that's a good thing to say to the patient. It's nothing wrong. This fear, mentioned here by colleague Germič, I think it is entirely unfounded, but it could also be that a doctor is trying to suggest to a patient that he should seek treatment for a self-paying healthcare provider, but look, the representative of the patient's rights will be able to provide any such information on the phone to a patient who would otherwise want to. So I think that without this dictatorship, we would have had a worse article than we have today or in this original proposal. It doesn't make sense to me to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u166	Thank you very much. And Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Well, I have certain concerns about this amendment, so I will not vote for the amendment myself. But there are, I will say, purely out of practice in view of the existing health situation. In Slovenia, we are lagging behind Europe in many areas, and I believe or even believe that it should be the duty of a doctor, because we do not have a comprehensive hearing with us, hand-to-heart, to teach that he is so up-to-date, it is said that he is monitoring new treatment methods, the new diseases found within Europe, within the world, and that he also teaches his patient about this. You know, when a doctor sends a patient away, he just says, "Yes, I have nothing left to help you," these times are over. That's why I will not personally support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u168	Thank you very much. This also concludes the debate in conjunction with Article 20. We're moving on to paragraph 41. We have two amendments to Article 41, one proposed by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the other by the DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants to discuss it? Nobody. I'm closing up. Do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u169	Thank you very much. This amendment is essentially about allowing the patient, the patient's free choice of the one who will write the second opinion. In fact, the existing solution in the amended version of the law provides that this second opinion should be made in the same house, according to the same operator. I am sure that I have basic evidence for this, that it is difficult to get a second opinion in the same house, because colleagues can just get their hands on it, and that opinion will be almost 100% the same as the first one. If we want an independent second opinion, the contractor must be freely chosen by the patient. If not, we can say that he does not have this right and that it is better that the possibility is open here: he can do it in that house, but he can do it in another house, if the insurer so decides, or if he wants to be absolutely sure that the second opinion will be really different. It is not necessarily different, but it will be without the influence of the operators or producers of the first opinion from the same house. This is an argument that has something in it, and we should support this amendment as it is, and I think it's right to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I will also support the amendment myself and at the same time appeal to the Minister to listen to this amendment. Really! And I'll just give it to the autistics. Not many times have parents had to take a second opinion even abroad, since we simply cannot get a second opinion. In order to try to find another opinion within the same institution or health institution - please! This is about as much as if we have a completely political or dependent authority that controls the irregularity of the lower instance. Another view is that it makes sense to consult experts who can, in fact, because they are neither professionally nor friendlyly connected to an institution, be able to give an opinion professionally and independently. That's why it makes sense to support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like a word? You don't want to. I conclude the debate in conjunction with the amendments to Article 41. We are moving on to Article 42 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. We are moving on to 436th Article and the amendment of the same Group of Members, i.e. SDS. We are moving on to the 50th Article, which is amended by two groups, for the first time by the DeSUS Group and the second time by the SNS Group. Anybody want a word? I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u173	We will support the amendment proposed by the SNS party regarding the Ombudsman, although of course I know that this article is actually in order to raise it as a conceptual question. And if we really want to establish an institution of the Ombudsman through an individual as an institution that then has a system in some way, then there should be a lot of reform in this law. But at this point, we're talking about a conceptual matter. Personally, after the experience we have received after these numerous talks, hearings and so on, I think that it would be really better to have a guardian in a person who would have authority, a reputation that we would have chosen here in the National Assembly, on the proposal of the President of the State, then really do something to get to someone who might sometimes discuss not only some of the problems of a particular patient, but also some of the substantive, systemic dilemmas that we have in the field of the health system, and I think it would be extremely important to have authority at the national level. In this sense, it seems to me that the authority of the 75-member commission will somehow not be able to establish. The President will be appointed by the Government and also by all members of the Commission. There is certainly no way that one person will expose himself and somehow identify himself by defending these rights. And in this sense, it seems to me that we have lost enormously, that there is a lost opportunity here, which we have also highlighted at the time of the re-thinking at the Ministry, because here we would really do a lot not only for the patient's rights, but also probably for the health system as a whole. However, I am sure that we have such personalities and we could have them, and we would also agree peacefully in this House, and we could really gain a lot of them. That is, unfortunately, a lost opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Member Jazbec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Both the first and the second amendments to Article 50 basically break the concept of the law, because they somehow abolish the representatives and introduce the guardians, so the amendment is unacceptable. It is precisely the amendments mentioned above that give rise to the seriousness of the adoption of this law. In Article 50, we would break the concept that should have already been written in Articles 1 and 2. And it seems to me that a little more serious in such an important marriage could be. Also, some amammams on the 51st and next articles, which speak of deleting whole articles, seem to have a rather unserious role, and I will not support them myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u176	Thank you very much. My friend Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I also agree that the adoption of this amendment would effectively undermine the basic concept of this law, and the representative is certainly the most operationally effective and in particular in favour of patients' solutions. And the dilemmas that arise here that an agent can be dependent or subordinate to someone are virtually not true. It is true that in these transitional provisions, when the representative was appointed by the Government, but at the suggestion of independent institutions, municipal councils, local communities, when we have regions, the provincial authority will confirm that. It means that this is completely distant and would also be financed by the provincial budget from the Ministry, which is trying to inform him here. There is no dilemma here about doubting his dependence or independence. Again, I would like to point out that it is very clear what quality this representative must have from higher education, from many years of working experience in this particular area, that he is a reputable person with authority in his environment. I think it's more than a guarantee that he'll be able to do his job professionally, independently, especially for the benefit of the patient. We're talking about a name here again, whether it's an agent or a guardian, I think it's the same thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The essential difference is between an agent and the Ombudsman. That's the first thing. Secondly, if we are proposing this and all future amendments under Article 50, Article 51, are unrealistic, then I wonder what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has written in a coalition contract, is the institution of the Ombudsman or the patient's rights. And given that I don't have much time anymore, believe me, this amendment, if adopted, would also eliminate the involuntarily certain or certain mayors from the northeastern part of Slovenia who are, as they say, or have, as they say, the "full suitcase" of people who apply to them with requests for funding of activities that are linked to the regional level, even though it is the local or regional Ombudsman of patients' rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u180	Thank you. Member Znidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! I have to say, it's the whole time we're talking about certain amendments to break the concept of law. It's a bad concept, so it would be a good idea for you to crash into that part that's bad. The introduction of this patient’s representative is certainly one of the bad solutions to change it. Of course, the difference between a guardian and an agent is enormous. In purely specific matters, professional or other matters, the representative will represent the insured and allow for direct conflict with the system, doctor, healthcare service, his associates or the whole. These complaints are usually few when they come to them, and lawyers and lawsuits are in turn. That is why this institution is not a good way to protect patients' rights. The guardian is much better. Why? Because it can solve the problem in principle without pushing the patient into a direct conflict, in a resentment almost everyone is experiencing when they complain. Therefore, these complaints are far less rare than the number of violations or the number of dissatisfied patients than anyone thinks. And that would make it better to bring in the guardian. I myself have proposed deleting this article because the representative is a bad solution. Furthermore, in the relevant article, this is 55.a., I propose the establishment of this Ombudsman in a more specific way than mentioned in the law, because what the law already says is what we already have, there is nothing here to do. These are things that are known. I believe that the guardian agrees with this solution, but because she does not want individual special guardians to appear, even though this constitution allows and determines and is such a solution. As for the comment and question, say, Mr Grill, who was already hiding with his hands, who wondered what the Ombudsman could do for the patient, I must say: nothing about such representatives of the authorities who are working or attacking the Ombudsman, rather than respecting his comments and proposals. Nothing like that. For all those who respect the Ombudsman's Institute, however, we believe that the Ombudsman's principled warnings about the functioning of the system that has deviated from the rights under the Health Insurance Act and the Health Act, but that the Institute, which is respected and respected, could expect certain effects. I have confidence in such institutions, I don't make fun of them or attack them, and you know how Hanzka, for example, attacked herself because he warned about human rights. And the same could be done by the Ombudsman. But I still think it's a better solution than an agent. As a result, both options are good: or to delete an article then establish the Institute of the Ombudsman as proposed, or to write here already that we will have it, and the completed version is accepted there. So it is not true that the concept of a bad law should not be conceived. We need to get rid of weak concepts, if we can, and this is the purpose of the proposed amendment. And just one more word. So many readings at the expense of the original support. This forces us to think that we would never again give support to prepared laws in the first reading, but the result will be that we are a weak member of the coalition, that we do not cooperate, that we are inoperable and similar. And that's exactly what happened in this case. At that time, we said that marriage was not good, but we would support it because it was better than nothing, but in the further processing of the law it would be possible and necessary to fix it. But most of all, nothing has happened, because our good proponents think that they should also not deviate from bad solutions and persist stubbornly in most of their solutions, some correct themselves with coalition amendments, and everything else usually falls. And that's bad, that's not the purpose of Parliament or this legislative branch of power, our purpose and duty, and it's the right to complete every law as long as possible in a positive direction and not accept it because it also has good solutions. Today, for example, the Trade Act said: Support the law, for it also has good solutions. However, they are poor for the reward of all those who think that there is nothing good to be done in this country if some who have the majority have decided bad things to do with good "walk" then in the legislative procedure to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u183	Thank you again very much for your word. Look, at first reading, I really wanted to take a deep look at these terms, either as a guardian or as an agent. That I somehow understood the work or, last but not least, the purpose of the Ombudsman as well as Mrs Szezline of Maribor as the Ombudsman of the Patient's Rights, I read their reports for 2006 or even for 2005 with special care; and what I found. Above all, when I read from Mrs. Szezlinová, she practically did more than 90% of her work by telephone conversations with health care providers, then she wrote a letter and finally saved a lot of patients or patients from some problem or has accelerated things. And the representative has these powers, or much more, and will be able to do more here operationally. I have also read the report of the Ombudsman, also Mr Hanžk, in that chapter where he somehow represented his work in the field of violation of these health or patient rights; yes, in the same way he was able to intervene, with some phone call, with some letter, how many times he was successful, I find it difficult to judge because I did not track those records inside, but I will say another thing about this. In my office, which I have every week, I have a very large number of people who have such or different problems, not with health care providers - with anything. And when they also turned to the Ombudsman, unfortunately he could not help them in any other way than if he had given them moral support. Thank you so much for such help if you do not have the authority to do anything in this area! Just warning isn't always enough. And the Ombudsman, as well as the Ombudsman, if formulated in the same manner or with the same powers, I firmly believe that I would not be able to guarantee this in this way, as the representative of the patient's rights provides. Because of me, we can also call him the Ombudsman, but by doing so, he will contribute to the benefits of our patients. And this law, once again, is a good one, even such a solution is good and there is no reason not to continue to advocate such a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the two amendments to Article 50. We move on to article 51, where we meet with three amendments. The first is the amendment of the DeSUS Group, the second of the Liberal Democracy Club and the third of the Zares Group. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. It's a question of how to perform a function. I've already said today that the entire structure of the Ombudsman's Institute is unprofessional or unprofessional, and everyone does this function unprofessionally. I think that this is in some way a demeanor of the problem posed by the issue of patients' rights in Slovenia. At this time of transition, in fact, when we have in some way a number of difficulties in the field of the health system, in the field of concessional matters, in the area of hospital problems, in the area of financing and the like, waiting times, there are problems, so many problems that we certainly cannot handle this matter only through non-professional conduct. Unprofessional agents will be working in the provinces. I asked Mrs Szezlin, although she performed this function in a non-professional manner, which was also, in some way, an argument that was immediately taken by the coalition, Mrs Szezlin said that, because she was retired, she was working significantly more than the working time of an individual, and she also had a number of colleagues. My assessment is that at this level, i.e. on these fundamental rights, on mediation and all that health insurance will do - even in part - information from this area that it will give, certainly cannot be concentrated in the number that appears there, 12 hours or at least 12 hours a week. I think it's a simple mockery of this case. I think a lot of people should be professional in this pyramid. Despite the fact that we have already received a lesson in saving today, I think that in the field of protecting patients' rights, there can be no argument that we should not establish a professional and professionally correct service in charge of this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u186	Thank you very much. To the word of Ambassador Ljubo Germić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u187	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I myself will support the amendments that speak of having an agent do his job professionally. Why? Firstly, for a simple reason, if we want to give real weight to this area, then it is not possible to imagine that someone will be able to do this volunteering, in a way that we will think that someone who is already retired can devote their free time to this, instead of thinking about attracting for representatives those who will be able to do this work professionally and to the satisfaction of those who really want to have as many procedures as possible. If we are not good at counseling, if we are not good at carrying out any complications at the outset, there will be an enormous increase in the number of appeals. And it seems to me that the representative at this stage will play a very important role. And if he doesn't do his job professionally, it seems to me that this will be one of the great weaknesses of this marriage. In doing so, I am surprised by the reasons for the change. We, on the basis of the amendment, which in fact converts the article from the professional work of representatives to non-professional exercise, only use the following dictatorship in explanation: "A representative will perform his work in a non-professional manner." This concludes the explanation of the amendment. Nowhere does it say that this decision means that it makes sense to improve the exercise of patients’ rights. Not with a single comma, let alone a word. And that disturbs this change in the text of this law. The proposer amends the whole law through amendments to coalition parliamentary groups and does not respond substantively to why these things change. And the conversion of a professional representative into a non-professional exercise of this work suggests that the applicant has no clear idea of what this law will bring when it is enforced. And certainly do not tell the Slovenian public that you want to contribute to the well-being of patients with this law. If such important decisions go from white to black, you are unable to explain correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u188	Thank you very much. However, Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u189	Thank you very much again for your word. The original text referred to him as a professional representative of rights. And even when I saw this amendment proposal myself, I was able to learn from where such a solution is now. And when I have deepened or heard arguments that it is Mrs Szyzlina from Maribor who is doing this unprofessional work, there is only one and an example of good practice - I think - to be taken into account, I see no reason why we would not start the thing in this way too now in this law - if we say so - by having at least 9 representatives of the patient's rights in Slovenia right away, as far as we have at the Institute of Health Care. However, when we have the provinces and if there is enough political will, it will be possible in the following year or in 2009, such representatives will be 14, 15 or even more. And if it turns out that the unprofessional exercise of this function needs to be changed, I think that such a small change in the law is such a small effort, such a small cost that it should not be a reason for us to go into this proposal immediately with a different solution than this. All these dilemmas that appear here, although I understand them, I allow them, but I do not think that such a solution can in any case contribute to the failure of this law to be successful and not to achieve its purpose. Even with my predecessor's conclusion that the coalition, the government doesn't know how many such cases there will be and so on. I don't think it's in Slovenia that can say so many today and so many will. I am sure that when this law is enforced, when health care providers know the rights of patients to make every effort through their work to avoid such violations, there will be no irregularities. And if this thing is successful, I think it's gonna be less work for the representatives, but it'll be less work for the committee every year. This is also the basic purpose. I'm sure it's going this way. But if it doesn't, the law can still change. There is no law that would show up at the beginning of a bad side. It's always being corrected in order to make it better, and we can do that. So I don't see the point in supporting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u190	Thank you, too. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u191	Thank you very much again. If we did any of what we wrote in the Health Coalition Treaty, then I believe this prediction that the cases to be dealt with by the representatives of the patient's rights will be less and less. But we didn't do any of that. That's why I expect the violation of patients' rights to be more. And also the prediction that we will have as many as 14 or even more of these agents is a serious matter for me. I am confident that the representative's institute is unnecessary, but that everything needs to be done to ensure that the system works in such a way that frequent violations do not occur. However, rare infringements can be resolved within the house where they occur if they do not have a commission at national level, of course, on a substantially smaller scale, which could lead to the end of the matter in the appeal procedure. Then the ultimate solution is the lawsuit in court. I think it's better to delete the representative in Article 50. Then paragraph 51 is deleted, and then that's what I said. And we could close the matter in this spirit again with a comment. But if we don't do anything by the end of the year that 18 points are substantive in a coalition contract that deals with the health care sector that hasn't been conceived, then our patients are called "sad mother" to the patients. And I'm afraid that this law won't help, and it's actually a substitute for everything that we don't like to do, but we should have a system that works better than it does. Although I must say, we have well-developed health care. Doctors are good. They should be better rewarded. Of course some other health workers too. But we haven't done anything on this line yet. It's probably going to be a linear increase in wages again, which is bad. In the coalition contract, we agreed on a reward after work to prepare doctors for a greater joy of this work, which is much and too small. But I'm saying we don't talk about working conditions. We're not talking about rewards. However, we will try to shade the eyes with some fog of patients so that they will not see all of this and will justify themselves with the help of the representative of his rights indefinitely, so that the matter will be resolved, which we cannot agree on. Pots are different. We don't open those other paths. I'm afraid we won't have them until the end of the term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Comrade Ljubo Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u193	Thank you very much. How unconvincing the arguments for individual interventions in this law are, are simple facts that the applicant and the coalition itself make as documents. See, when explaining the need for an amendment to Article 50 at the Committee's hearing, the proposaler writes that the representative could not be accepted because of the number of procedures. Therefore, it was not possible to take the initiative to cover the scope of infringements of rights and appeal procedures in the exercise of health insurance rights. And then we quote the numbers. And we are talking about this from the communication, the respected report of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia for 2006. Number of decisions issued at the first stage of 360,809 and number of decisions issued at the second stage of the complaint. Total 7,832. We in law give an agent with more authority. Let's get him a new warrant. We didn't snore them. We've written more. So we also wrote: "it offers professional assistance and gives concrete guidance also in the exercise of rights in the field of health care, health insurance." Which is correct. But when we give him more orders, we say in these numbers at one year, let's call it unprofessional. That's what I'm talking about. Where are the arguments for that? Well, not professionally, I apologize, unprofessionally. You're saying here that we've alerted you to the duality of procedures. You don't believe this is going to happen? When we remind you that there are no arguments, just as from black to white to turn professional, unprofessionally on the basis of complaints that are the subject of the real world, you say that, of course, the representative can do this with his left hand. And we are talking about in Article 1 how we will establish a corrective partnership between doctors and between patients, how we will do everything to the satisfaction of patients. Yes, but what if the article to the article demeans you in what way? And we are again giving you the thought that the solution proposed by the amendment is not good, and that we are trying to find a solution that tells you that the representative should serve the patient and is now doing his job professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to speak in connection with the three amendments to Article 51? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We move on to paragraph 52, where we meet with four amendments. The first signed by the DeSUS Group, the second Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, third Zares and fourth of the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then we move on to Article 53, which is the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to discuss this? Comrade Znidaršič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u195	Thank you. I would just like to point out that this is a deletion of the amendment resulting from the possible deletion of Article 50, and I have not interpreted it in broad terms. If there is no representative, then these amendments are essentially irrelevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We are moving on to Article 54 and the proposal for amendments also signed by the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. We're moving on to Article 55a. Four amendments have been tabled in conjunction with Article 55, the first signed by the DeSUS Group, the Second Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Third Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the Fourth Group of the Zares. Comrade Znidaršič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u197	So, here we're fixing the solution that's in the marriage that we already have, and it wouldn't even have to if it stayed the way it is. For the marriage arrangement speaks of a guardian having a duty to monitor it and that he may or may designate one of the deputies for it. We know that the Ombudsman has four assistants. Now there's only two. We didn't choose them anymore because they're not ours, as they're called. And we believe that for this area it is consistent with the provisions of the Coalition Treaty, although in a narrow sense a special guardian is not an independent independent institution, but within the existing Institute of Human Rights, but for this particular sensitive area of the patient's rights in order to protect the patient's position in the system in principle by alerting to the functioning and compliance with the legislation in order to respect the proper regulation of all laws applicable to this area. Not only one and with a view to being named in this respect, but not in the context of the mandate of existing assistants, but in a new way and to be further defined in the law. Such a solution is made possible by the constitutional provision and the Law on the Ombudsman. And that's why we think she's meaningful and necessary. At least follow in principle and in part the agreement in the coalition agreement. But to all those who today try to challenge or ignore the agreement in the coalition treaty, I ask the question: Where were they when we wrote this down with our clever comments today? How is this an ineffective way? How could that not be the right thing to do? How do we not need this because we already have a guardian there, how will we proceed with the assistant? That's when they'd have given up their concerns. But when we agreed, you agreed to almost all of our proposals because I think you agreed on silently that you would not have to do it, but you would have more - I would say - a higher quality majority guaranteed for decision-making, of course at your request and contrary to our expectations, suggestions, opinions and arguments? And in this context, I propose that you support this amendment, otherwise the DeSUS Group will have to oppose the adoption of this law by at least voting against, if not in any other way, in accordance with an agreement within the coalition and in view of the non-implementation of the coalition content provision concerning the Ombudsman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The first amendment refers to the fact that, within the competence of the Ombudsman, we propose that the text which speaks of the Ombudsman exercising human rights should therefore provide conditions for the effective implementation of this law, thus replacing the text of this law with the words "patient rights". We do not imagine that the Ombudsman would restrict this law only to the text of this law within the scope of his jurisdiction. Because, in our opinion, it is the rights of patients who are treated by this law if it is adopted. And in the beginning, we wrote that they would be dealt with by another law. And in my opinion, it is not possible to adopt in this law a text imposing on the Ombudsman that the rights of patients should be dealt with only on the basis of this law. We therefore propose that the text of this Article also be amended at this point. Mr Vice-President, if I understand correctly, are we also talking about the amendment proposals for a new 55.b? Okay. Then I'd say in just to justify the support. Therefore, we propose the introduction of a new chapter on the promotion of patient rights and their realization in practice, where we define the competences of non-governmental organisations. It is definitely a fact that non-governmental organisations in the field of health care as a whole, especially in ensuring the rights of patients, play a major role. And if we are able to understand and acknowledge this, then it is appropriate to give this recognition to their proper, extensive work also by writing this in the chapter "promotion of patient rights and their realization in practice" and by giving particular importance to non-governmental organisations. I will avoid commenting on what the representatives of the various political groups to these groups, i.e. NGOs, show. Because I think it's possible to follow through on a variety of actions. However, as Chairman of the Health Committee, I definitely did not agree with the attitude of some Members to NGOs that participated in the work of the Health Committee on the second reading of this law. And if we understand NGOs in a different way than we could have seen on the Health Committee. And if we all understand that, then let us support this provision in this law, which gives NGOs special status in this area. This role of NGOs is intended primarily to inform patients in terms of the promotion of rights and information. What are we afraid of giving NGOs, among other things, this role? For in our amendment we speak of the promotion and information being carried out by an agent, but also by non-governmental organisations. So, pay attention to the word "including" in the first paragraph of this article. Let us not give them this right to write into the law without giving them certain financial resources. We therefore propose in the amendment that the necessary resources for their operation should also be identified through the financial support defined through the draft budget. And, of course, we also give the Minister all the powers to define the procedure for selecting operators of activities relating to information and other content recorded in the context of the promotion of patients' rights. If we are serious about the fact that the law should play the role of as few complaints as possible, then let us give the NGOs we have a palette, the widest possible opportunity to promote the exercise of rights, give them the role of informing patients about their rights, and thus allow as many cases to be resolved as possible, which will be concluded at the lowest possible stage of the hearing, and that there will be no appeal proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Does he have a procedural word?; Comrade Zagorac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u201	Thank you for your word. Dear President! On such a serious subject as we are now dealing with, I must say it is a terrible surprise that the Nemo Government is sitting, observing and not defining what is its basic task. Therefore, if only possible, I would ask you to at least give your opinion to the proposed amendments, because we have heard - a coalition treaty has been breached. There can be other things in the back. So please give an opinion, tell me how it's going to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u202	Comrade Zagorac, we understand your procedural proposal. I estimate it's acceptable, too. I believe that even for all those who wrote the amendments and tried to change. Madam Minister, I ask you to become more active in connection with the amendments and to define yourself. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Indeed, we have followed your debate and listened for reasons, because, as we have done in this law, and any comments that have been made so seriously, it would be difficult to find any such processing of the law anywhere in the archives. In fact, we've coordinated most widely. Really the widest of the 80 amendments that have been submitted. The fact that the Committee has held a debate on each of them for about 8 hours and that there are also very precise explanations. They're very precise for every amendment. Of course, I will be able to cooperate more actively if necessary. Especially on the 55th. Let me mention that we've done a lot of consultations. Of course, also with the Ombudsman and harmonise this article and harmonise this part in full, coordinated and coordinated with DeSUS. Taking into account that this is a coalition treaty commitment which we understand in this way is fulfilled and that the Ombudsman has a particular branch of one of the deputies who is solely concerned with the rights of the patient. That even in this role it was not quite easy and that there were many interviews by the civil service, with the Ombudsman's office, that we had somehow reached this consensus, which the Ombudsman specifically stressed one thing that I had not heard here. She pointed out that, from the point of view of the Ombudsman, who would be specifically empowered for the rights of the patient, she would also, as a matter of fact, monitor the functioning of this Commission and these Chambers and representatives. In short, it's something that's above, which isn't intertwined inside. That is why members of the Office of Human Rights are not involved in this committee either. That's why it's also somehow the highest level of safety for patients, as far as we know, and we've been able to arrange with the guardian. And one more time about the MPs. To bring people's solutions closer to 14 locations, as stipulated in the law. The ones who will be close to a man who will have problems. This was the basic purpose and that I believe that it can be that people who are worthy of respect, who will really do it with a lot of momentum, with a lot of responsibility, because we have a lot of such cases today in Slovenia. And we also have many examples of civil society that are extremely committed to the rights of patients who are also committed to development, although in the field of health, and that their initiatives are very welcome and that many times there are many benefits to doing so. Thus, as set forth in the law, it is truly likely that, after all of this and as far as possible, consideration can be given to what is within the limits of what is possible. And it is taken into account for the benefit of citizens and citizens, for the benefit of patients. Because once again, when we're patients, we're probably the most sensitive population. Much more than when we are healthy and can actually forget that we too can be affected by the disease. So this is why we do not support the proposed amendments, because the effort and inclusion of all possible institutions was to create and write these articles in line with one reasonable consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u204	Comrade Franz Žnidaršič, therefore, of the unreasonable amendments, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, a great effort has been made. Nothing happened. What is stated in Article 55a is nothing more than what has already been resolved at the Ombudsman's Institute. Not one letter is one that would place this instrument in this law in any higher level or in a concrete solution for this special area. There's no telling how long this term is gonna be, and we don't know who it's gonna be. The Ombudsman should be appointed to the National Assembly for a term of office for five years and an assistant to the Ombudsman for Patients' Rights. This was an agreement that we would do instead of a special guardian of patient rights, as set out in the Coalition Treaty. We made a deal with the Prime Minister. Otherwise, it's a closed meeting. So he won't be spying in public. But now it has to be said that we don't stick to a coalition contract, that we don't stick to agreements that are more than fair, an eye for an eye, so that without a tie, things go on. Nothing! Nothing's gonna happen because we made a different decision. I don't know where. Of course the guardian doesn't want to compete. I understand that. But on the other hand, I wonder: How can she attack a system in which patients' rights will be violated, but if one of the employees is there; not at this moment, but when she is no longer a guardian, will she be a doctor? She should get out of this conflict if it comes to him. That's why she's because she's a doctor - I think - the last one who could solve this conflict creatively, except through friendly negotiation. But she can't attack the job she's going back to, or maybe it wouldn't be good for her. But you have to attack if something's wrong. And it is the Ombudsman's duty to place things quite acutely in the requirements to respect the provisions of the relevant legislation which give rise to rights in this particular case of the patient. And that's what we wanted to do. There was no comment at the time when we agreed on this. It all came together nicely. The cameras buzzed, it looked good, then a glass of foam. Now we have what we had before - without a special solution for patients who will not have a guardian. But they will have an agent who, in my firm belief, will not be able to help them. Except for the in-depth conflict with the system in which the patient is not to blame at all if he wants nothing to happen to him in the course of treatment and so on. I already have a bad feeling about this because I like to discuss it. So I don't know where I'm going to go when I'm sick - because I'm afraid there's been some resentment, even though I'm trying to be honest and, of course, mostly patients. I hope to die of sudden death so I don't need the system, at least not for long and not in a fateful way. But I want to tell you that cynicism is to say what efforts have been made. I believe they were. But the result is an empty thing. The result is what we already had and nothing has changed. We don't have what we agreed and entered into a coalition contract. And the Ombudsman's Institute will not be set up with this and will not be able to act as differently as it could by now. And let's say that wasn't enough. That's why we're re-setting this form here. So in this case, if the coalition rejects this amendment and this agreement, then I don't know what else to talk about in this coalition. Then it would be a lie. Also, we're four there and we should talk about it the way it was. Not like someone else behind their backs said otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u206	Thank you very much. A colleague of Ljubo Germić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that again. I would just like to draw attention to the duality also in Article 55a, which we also point out. As soon as we give jurisdiction to the Ombudsman, I believe that the powers of the Ombudsman are laid down by the Constitution and the law. And when we talk about giving it under this law, about the Ombudsman in the framework of his duties, he spoke and monitored the field of patient rights and on this basis demanded the competent national authorities, the local community authority, the holders of public powers to ensure the conditions and conditions for the implementation of this law. Why is there a marriage here? Why is there a marriage here? We are talking about the patient's rights as a general right within the purview of the Ombudsman. I really do not understand that we will now establish here its powers under this law and define in general its powers to deal with patients' rights. I don't understand that. And I'd really like you to explain that to me. And I doubt if you've warned her that she, for example, might have accepted this dictatorship peacefully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u208	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Member of the Cvet Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I will return to the topic of the promotion of patient rights, which has also been amended in this Article. This is what she also proposed at the meeting of the representative of the Union of Consumers. Because the fact is, at this point, a lot of the societies where patients work are already doing the things that are listed here. That is what I think, Madam Minister, you know from your own experience that to promote patients' rights, to inform patients about their rights, to verify the exercise of rights in the system. This is what many NGOs and societies do. And what we wanted with this article was to give them a euro for this matter, also on the basis of a call for proposals. And I see a very big problem in funding these organisations and you know it, Minister, and so do you. So I really appeal to you because we were colleagues in Europe, Donna: Would it not be right to say, just as an example, that this society gets some funding for everything it does in the field of promotion or in the field of patient information from the patient rights segment? Because it's sad that we leave these societies to the market -- if I say so -- in their operations. In appealing, begging and fencing companies and in fact becoming, in some ways, addicts of the pharmaceutical industry. I don't think that's good for the non-governmental sphere. And we've been on the edge a lot of times. For example, when it comes to the issue of cervical cancer vaccination, when the company is also financed by the pharmaceutical industry. And I want to establish a way to get these companies to promote a neutral issue, such as the promotion of patients' rights, to get some money out of the country. Unfortunately, the coalition refused to do so. I am now addressing you personally because of your experience, because of everything you know in this area, what is bad about this matter, if a few euros in this non-governmental sphere were to devote and do something for their independence, so that they would not depend only on good will, donations, grants and also on the pharmaceutical industry, which helps, which is commendable. However, societies should not be overly dependent on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u210	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. Well, I would like to discuss first the powers of the Ombudsman. Indeed, the debate is about whether we should have special guardians for individual areas for a long time. And indeed she is not the current guardian of human rights, the first and only one to defend the institution of the Ombudsman with four deputies. The problem comes at the moment, because the four deputies are under the law. The problem comes at a moment when we want to have individual deputies defined for each area. We have one of them to protect children's rights already defined. We will now have a special deputy appointed to protect the patient's rights. I don't disagree with that. But the only thought I have in this regard is of a substantive nature and of an experimental nature. It follows from the reports of the Ombudsman’s annual periodic reports that it is precisely the institutions involved in the protection of health or in the conduct of these activities that are least responsive to the Ombudsman’s observations. This is said to lead to a system of mutual respect and trust. Just go watch the report on how this ministry made recommendations to the Ombudsman's 11th annual report, and you'll see that I just don't remind you of the story of the Mental Health Act. And when I think about it, I wonder if this is really an effective way of controlling the exercise and protection of patients' rights. However, I have the same position as my colleague, Ljubo Germič, that the diction in the fourth line of Article 55a is totally inadequate because it is in contradiction with the provisions of Article 1 of this Act, which speaks in paragraph 3. Now I hope you hope that that amendment will be adopted and that then everything that can be placed under the umbrella of the protection of the patient's rights will be united in this law. If it is not possible to find everything in this law, then reference only to the provision of this law is something that does not cover the matter. So much for that. Whether it's called something now or not, it really doesn't matter. Because, who also thinks that the term guardian, the Slovenian term guardian is not good enough and that he is a better ombudsman. But these are already linguistic debates that we can go back to, but the benefits of which will not be, unless we have a clear definition of powers. It's the content of these tasks. The second amendment, to which I would like to express my support, is an amendment that speaks of the competences of NGOs. What is the relationship between the government and non-governmental sectors has been my job for some time now. I have been following this relationship for some time now, and I am waiting for an agreement between the Government and NGOs, because it is necessary. Especially given that our NGOs receive one third of the funds from the budget. In Europe, funding for NGOs is organised differently. But just as it is organised with us, let's say one third of the budget is if NGOs can meet, you know, the condition that their activities are in line with the public interest. Therefore, if one third of these funds are such, one third of the activities and the other of the grants should be provided with stable funding resources for those activities that NGOs can do more effectively and better - I would say - instead of larger institutions or bodies of the executive branch. And it is right that, in particular, in the field of awareness, in the field of prevention and in addition, they take over a good part of the tasks of a non-governmental organisation. If I return to the Ombudsman again, human rights are also promoted by NGOs in cooperation with the Ombudsman. And it would be possible if it was already necessary to do the same in order for some internal coordination to take place. That's why I think an amendment for a 55.b article is worthy of support and more, actually necessary. In particular, because, as far as I know, agreements between the Government and NGOs are not yet in place so that they can say that they will start to work as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Since it is a matter of civil society, civil organisations, which are, of course, their activities, must be greatly encouraged. We know this is something quite close to all those who have been doing it for decades and decades very intensively. At the Ministry of Health, we also have certain means of encouraging and concrete projects carried out by civil associations. That's why we didn't put it in the marriage because there's another possibility. There are options that are purely linked to specific activities and to specific projects and we will continue to support them. And I also know that as an active member of a civil society, you work primarily because you feel that when you have the ability to do something for the public also with your power and your energy, then you do it and, of course, I will do it again when I have the opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u214	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u215	Thank you again very much for your word. Once again, when we discuss the Ombudsman, his powers, I get the feeling that some people want to impute him to him that he has fewer powers than the Ombudsman or an agent or this commission. I think that human rights or a person's broader concept, such as that of a patient, means that in any case, anyone who is not satisfied with a decision or an agent or a commission still has the opportunity or opportunity to turn directly to the Ombudsman of Human Rights, which, with his or her powers, will be alerted or acted as if now that we do not have this law. In any case, I do not share the thought of some colleagues that the dictate of Article 55a will now reinvigorate our powers or interfere with the Law on the Ombudsman. Nothing, just a little bit more precise. In no case do they limit themselves. Therefore, I do not see any reason to talk about these things in order to change. However, as regards the addition of Article 55.b and already in the law of certain financing of non-governmental societies, organisations or anyone who wishes to act in the context of the promotion of the Patient Rights Act, I do not think that this is appropriate in this law. Especially since the Minister has made this very clear that there are funds that can be used to finance many societies or institutions that can also work to promote this. However, I have already mentioned and reiterated today that promotion or that this law is trying to present itself to the public or to warn them that it exists and that it is in the interests of patients, the task of all of us, politics, the media, health service providers. I think that if we try to put this matter in the public with some positive thinking, relatively soon, it will be brought to the under-conscious. Finally, it is also stipulated in the law that every healthcare provider will have a notice, will have to have a warning, will have to know that this law is in force, has the opportunity or has the right to know it, means that anyone who comes to a dentist will be able to have information in a visible place that only this thing exists in Slovenia now. It means, the possibilities of learning, the promotions in Slovenia are very large. And the most harm we can do is not to accept it as it is. Especially by deceiving, with some claims that this law is bad, that this law will not bring anything. If that's the point, then you're all on the right track. But this is the wrong way. Marriage is good, it's good for patients. Let us also confirm it as soon as possible, make it work, and we will do the most for our patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u216	Thank you very much. However, the word is given by Member Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u217	Thank you for your word. I've already said it today, and I'm gonna say it again. I'm sure and no one can convince me otherwise. This country only needs one human rights guardian. And this is a guardian with broad powers, with strong powers, with great competence and responsibility. How many helpers will he have for different areas? That's a completely irrelevant question. The State must then also provide it with sufficient resources for the areas which it then covers. And that we have such a guardian in this country right now, it is clear. How far has the system, as far as the report is concerned, actually been made for the Ombudsman to deliver his report to the President of the State, then to the National Assembly? The National Assembly shall examine this report every year. I think it's very serious. And then also adopt certain guidelines, conclusions, etc. And if the scope of the patient's rights is not covered enough, then there is a place here to draw attention to this at the hearing report and also to the Government providing more money and to devote more to this area. More for this area. Multiple guardians mean more strawed men or if you want more strawed women in this area. If Maribor is - and here I answer to my colleague Potrati, who is not here now - he will appoint his own guardian of the patient's rights. Then let the congregation of Maribor take care of financial resources as well. Not that he calls, but then he says, "We," but we said, "B," and we didn't. B, on the other hand, should say to all congregations that are tanning in the area of Maribor. The one he appointed should then also provide funds for this operation. Otherwise, we come to the idea that congregations will invent different institutions and then send these people around, and now go and ask for funds for your work. And here I come to that other part of the funding of NGOs. The ones you're criticizing here today are saying we don't give enough for that. You will probably forget that it is in this National Assembly that we, on the proposal of the Finance Minister, have amended the Income Act, which provides that any taxpayer may devote part of the income to any non-governmental organisation he wishes, and thus also points to the importance of these non-governmental organisations that have grown up as mushrooms in the rain. Various organisations are emerging. And they all want the country, as well as other budgetary users, to allocate funds for their operation. For this very reason, however, we have changed the Income Law in order for people to choose for themselves, which are important and which do not seem important to them. That's a start. I think that in the future the Income Act in this direction will still have to be upgraded and that people will actually say themselves, this institution of civil society is important, and we will devote our resources to certain ones who may not have justified this trust in this society in the past - not to mention which, even some major affairs are known, and so on - those who simply deny such a possibility. Donations are very important. Wherever you go abroad. Those who have discussed this and will look into it will see that people contribute from their pockets to these various organizations. And that's how we do a lot of things in this country. I am interested in how much - say - our colleagues from Zares contribute to the various funds of these organisations because they are so strongly advocated and said they are so strongly supported. So, I'm just wondering how much they're making of their own earnings for these purposes. I think that anyone who talks about this in this country should make a financial contribution, if he is not able to actively participate in these organisations because of the lack of time. What they can do, however, is to indicate financial resources and thus help different civil society institutions to work, if they seem important to them. That's what I do. I think you, too, Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Otherwise, if you want, I can prove it with a copy of my bank every month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u218	Thank you very much. A Member of the State of Potrat called at the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u219	Thank you. Dear colleague Sok, I'm in the hall, and speaking now is proof that I'm in the hall. But the problem you've put into practice is of a broader nature. Indeed, some institutions are established within individual municipalities and are also financed by these municipalities. The problem arises when their activity exceeds the municipal boundaries. And since we have successfully divided Slovenia into 210 congregations, it is likely that a large number of congregations have provided infrastructure, telephone, plumbing, and roads. But she didn't take care of the safe house, and maybe the guardian of the patient's rights. It is no wonder, then, that from that congregation that has such an institution, calls are also made for congregations that do not have such an institution to go to that institution to make small contributions. This is a debate that you can also consider in one part to discuss tomorrow's Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence when we talk about safe houses. But the problem is that we like to talk a lot about things. However, when we should also contribute from the municipal budget, we will tie up the scrotum. And now all I care about is how much someone contributes to something. I know myself well, but I don't brag about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u220	Thank you very much. For the debate, I invite Ambassador Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u221	I'm going to replicate my colleague Sok because earlier he challenged it when he said he had, if I remember the "full suitcase" of those requests. I know that among these requests, because I was a longtime mayor myself, there are many requests from humanitarian and similar organisations. I thought this debate of yours was "under," if I may say so. You said you had these "full suitcase" requests. And I'm telling you, it was one "under." And now, on top of that, you've been talking about your stories and things like that, what's who and what's not. I mean, normally, I expect everyone who's in here, what we contribute in physical and financial terms, to have a nice salary. This is our duty. Not - I'll say - we'll do whatever it takes to sneeze and brag. When I debated that the state would contribute systematically to the promotion activity of NGOs, including the companies where patients are organised, I spoke only about it. I think this is also in terms of too much influence and connection with the pharmaceutical industry. And you understand that quite well. You just want to tell people a little differently because you think people don't understand you, but they understand you very well.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate? Not yet. Mr Ljubo Germič also wishes to discuss the matter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, you now have the opportunity to take the floor in order to reflect on the support of NGOs. I would only point out that the real picture shows that in the budget we are reducing funds for this purpose. That is why, on behalf of the House of Representatives, I have tabled amendments that have been voted against by the coalition here and the amendments have not been adopted. Here we have the opportunity to give this amendment to the non-governmental organisations of the recognitions they are receiving. On this occasion, since I am speaking, I would just like to say this, I think that the debate is about watching anyone give anything to anyone, or to sport, to humanitarian or to any organisation, under the belt of a Member or a Member of this National Assembly. However, I must say, and it seems right to me that on this occasion I say that the President or Head of our Member's Dixi Band, my colleague Moja, was promoted by the first CD we made and donated in 5,000 copies of the Sun Society, that we made a second cd in 2,000 copies and gave it to the Union of Oncological Patients, that is, the area of health. We never talked about members of the ensemble. We have always talked about the National Assembly as an institution and the role and importance of NGOs for the National Assembly as a whole. And so let us understand the debates in this house. For it is a common responsibility to listen to these groups and to help them to realize their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with your debate in conjunction with article 55a. We are moving on to the debate on the two amendments to Article 59. The first by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and the second by the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. We're moving on to paragraph 64. We have three amendments to this article. The first by the LDS Club, the second by the DeSUS Group and the third by the Zares Group. Comrade Kontic, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! I believe that this is one of the most important articles of this law again. I hope that the debate in the previous article will not repeat itself and that we will not talk about how much someone is ready. Because I agree with my colleagues who have pointed out that there is no point in talking about how much someone does, because they give the most to those who have the least. At the very least, though, it is appropriate for us to explain for ourselves what someone gives and why. But perhaps the debate is really due to this term "full suitcase". For the term "full suitcase" is not appropriate for both the mayor and the MP when he speaks of those who seek his help or perhaps any co-financing. However, it is interesting and likely that this story will also appear within this article that the coalition is once again uncoordinated. And if the coalition is once again uncoordinated, how can we trust this coalition to be consistent with civil society if you are not coordinated with yourself. So, even events, as I said before, on the committee, on the working body, have shown that this coherence is not exactly on a high level. Civil society was coordinated mainly in leaving the meeting of the parent working body. How they understood the amendments, how they understood the law, is, of course, another story. They were mostly dissatisfied there. And when we talk about changes in all of these articles when we talk about amendments, we can find that 10% of the articles are only closed in this second reading. Everything else is a dark print and everything else is amended and it is possible to change and thus allows us to change certain things today. Even in this marriage. And the opportunity in this article is that tomorrow, when we vote on these amendments, we accept at least one of these amendments, which are set out in this Article. But I can say that all three are better than the basic text. Especially because they're changing the relationship within the commission. The Commission is expected to count 70 members in accordance with the basic text. The record itself of who is a member of this committee in the basic text says that it needs university education in the field of law and economics or at least higher education in health or economics and at least five years of working experience in these areas. Of course, then cut simply follows what is written in this paragraph, because it will not be so easy to get these people for this commission. But as I said, the problem is also this or, above all, the problem is the relationship. If we look at the existing text, that is to say, one third of the members of this Commission will have civil society, which is a coalitionly coordinated non-coordinated text. Two-thirds come from somewhere else. The main word is the Ministry in any case. All these three amendments that have been tabled. The first amendment of the LDS, probably the colleagues and colleagues themselves will present these amendments in more detail, has a ratio of 17:13 in favour of civil society. The second amendment by DeSUS also changes the relationship and the third amendment by the Zares Group, also reducing the number from 75 to 48 and the ratio of 25:23, is said in favour of non-governmental organisations in the field of the protection of patients' rights. Any amendment written under this Article will be confirmed or accepted, better than the existing text, which is written down and proposed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Comrade Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u227	Thank you. I'd like to explain the first amendment. For the first time, we are releasing the complexity of the conditions for those who may be members of the Commission. We allow for a much broader set and also define decades of experience. It seems important for us to have an open opportunity here, not to close in a very narrow circle of suitable candidates. The second part of the amendment concerns the committee itself. We propose that the Commission reduces significantly to reduce it from 75 to 30, as we estimate that 15 Senate members in Slovenia will be sufficient. Secondly, we propose that the composition of the members of the Commission be different from that proposed by the proposer. 10 members are proposed to be appointed on a proposal from individual republics from professional colleges, 17 members from non-governmental organisations in the field of patient rights or consumer protection, and 3 members are proposed to propose to the Commission on Medical, Ethics and Ethics at the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u228	Thank you very much. To the words of Ambassador Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, the very composition of this commission, which is in the original text of the law, is certainly optimal. Also, the number 75 is estimated that 25 Senate members could make possible second-degree complaints on an up-to-date basis. That is why I am now surprised by the assessment of Comrade Germič that that number would have been sufficient earlier when he asked the government and all of us, from then on, in the case of representatives and those matters. The Commission, or members of the Commission, is not a professional function, which means that the cost will also be linked solely to their work, their operation. And this does not mean any additional cost for the country if it is 75 members. The composition of the Commission, one third of this Commission shall be composed of members or on a proposal from non-governmental organisations. That's one third of these. It is true that a large number of proposed candidates will then be confirmed by the Ministry by the profession, it is medicine, it is a pharmacy, it may also be chemistry and everything related to the health system. But such a number of people must be because these are questions related to professional knowledge. That is why this is also the purpose for this Commission to be able to discuss these matters in an expert manner. And as already mentioned by the Senate, the three-member Senate, in which it will be mandatory to be a lawyer as head of the Senate, will then be a member of a non-governmental organisation and one of the professions, is the possibility that in the event that it is apparent that the doctor will again protect the doctor or healthcare professional here will be able to vote and accept in other cases if this happens. But I don't believe it, I know that this committee or every Senate will act independently, especially for the benefit of patients, if this Senate has any evidence to do so. I therefore believe that such a commission is composed in an optimal manner and such an amendment, as proposed, I do not want to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u230	Thank you very much. On the other hand, Mr Ljubo Germić, a fellow Member of Parliament, applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u231	Of course, we need to replicate our colleague Grill. We are talking about a commission that will deal with procedures, so this is a second reading. If we follow our logic through the entire law, we are talking about a professional representative, which means that most cases will be closed before the first hearing. And we are talking about the role of non-governmental organisations that will take care of promotion and information. If we are to take these steps, then the second reading will require significantly less. And if condition A is met, condition B is met, then other treatments will be so small. And here's our point. However, if you are counting on a large number of other hearings, then there will be a great need for such an extensive committee. Our point is going in a very different direction, the second reading should come in an exceptional way, and therefore we do not need such a large commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The word is by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. In fact, my colleague Grill has already said quite a few things that I intended to do myself. So we're talking about a 75-member committee that's going to be called the Tri-member Council. And that, in fact, it might not be difficult to put these Chambers together, it seems entirely appropriate for the Commission to be a 75-member. In fact, this is also unprofessional, unprofessional, as is the case with the representative. I believe that if we evaluate or think that 75 appointed members would be too many, but I doubt that, in spite of all the doubts, you have previously cited many of the cases that the current guardian is supposed to be dealing with, I have also looked at her report, and in fact there are quite a number of cases that she has dealt with, so I do not think it makes sense that we are reducing this number. Then we'll have problems, and we won't be able to do it the way we thought we would. That is why I will not support these amendments, and I propose that it remain as it was in the original article.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u235	However, I would like to point out once again that it is first of all a truly organised set of 75 experts from different structures, as we have found, definitely in the field of health care only 1/3 and then civil associations and lawyers who are supposed to lead individual Chambers. And it's just a bunch. There is no way that 75 people would get together and discuss anything. The point is that we are not looking for a professional problem in any field, in the fields of gynecology, pediatrics, wherever we have experts in each field. And from here on out, work is efficient and simple enough. Three people in this pool then find, decide, it's much easier than looking for experts on the market, so to speak. So it's right to show it in the right way so that we don't feel like spreading some kind of virtual administration and even write that it's 75 people who are discussing the current injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Member Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u237	Thank you very much. By being an organized recruit, I agree. Even if the number 75 is probably not very large, I can agree if we are serious about doing this work. The biggest problem, however, is the relationship that is set out in this committee. The situation, which speaks of only one third of the representatives of NGOs, of course, means, as I have heard and probably understood correctly, that the Chambers will be made up of three members and one of them will be a representative of civil society. I propose that we give the gentleman of the Ministry a word so that he can explain the matter to us, because he can not understand it properly. But given the number that is set, and given that there are 25 of them, that there are exactly one third, there is a fear that one of the three who will decide will be one who will be the representative of this civil society. It's just some kind of logical conclusion. And if there are three, the result of the vote is approximately known.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u238	Thank you very much. As you know, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Minister who is with us today and the Secretary of State, who was late this morning, even with delay, may participate with us. So we have compatible interlocutors in every way. The Minister will get her word the moment she wants it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u239	If I may explain that this troika, which is called a Senate, is made up of a doctor, the one who will cover the area, from the representative of the Civil Association and, of course, the lawyer who will lead this Senate. On a specific point, it is impossible to cover this variety of issues in a different way. We have also considered the reduction, but for some reason we have left this set, this number, and we have set up these three-member Chambers or made possible the future composition of the three-member Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u240	Comrade Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your answer. That's exactly what I was saying before. This is a confirmation of what I guessed before I spoke and my fear remained justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 64. And we are moving on to the 66th article of the bill, where we have one amendment, namely the Zares amendment, which proposes to delete the fourth paragraph. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to paragraph 71 and to two amendments tabled. The first is by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and the second by the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group. Does anyone want to discuss this here? [[No, no, ……]] We turn to paragraph 73, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. [[No, no, ……]] Rule 73, your amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u243	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry about the late reaction. So the purpose of our amendment is to change the way the Commission is dealt with on a case-by-case basis. We propose that the members of the commission move to the patient, while only the text of the law assumes that the patient is always moving to Ljubljana. We therefore propose that the dictatorship be amended and written down so that the appeal procedure is generally determined according to the proximity of the patient's permanent or temporary residence and the seat of the representatives of the patient's rights. However, if this requires prudence or any other reason, this shall be done at the seat of the Commission, which shall be provided at the premises of the Ministry of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 73. We are moving on to the 75th article to which we have tabled the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Comrade Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would only point to the fact that the proposal for amendments to Article 75 reintroduces two articles talking about the alleged security complication into the law. My discussion has already been fully carried out on the content of the need to put a security complication in the text of the law already in Article 2. And these two articles speak only of the manner in which the procedure is carried out in the event of a specific investigation due to an alleged security complication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. Minister, really appeal - listen to these two amendments [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] You know, the only thing you focus on is internal professional supervision. [[...]] Tell me one institution in our country where internal control was effective. The police, or, excuse me, the Ministry of Defence has found, on the basis of internal surveillance, that there is no sexual violence, harassment within the military. It's not like that. Also the supervisory commission, where some types were involved [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] internal surveillance, in the case of the takeover of the Oncology Institute, found that there was no irregularity, and yesterday we watched a broadcast - how many irregularities occur in our health care. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u248	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u249	Yeah. First of all, I'd say we're too small for anyone else to trust. That all proposed forms of control are always controversial. There can always be different solutions. Here's a red description of what we've been supplementing, as an example in this marriage. Seriously, even in thanking a team that is part of a new team that is very trying to make such a law that will be good for citizens and citizens, and this internal professional supervision is the one that will be prescribed here in the next article then defined - how and how it will be prescribed. However, that there are no irregularities in health care, of course I will not argue that we are here to eliminate them and that there are as few mistakes as possible wherever and whatever we are doing, but believe me, we are very committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u250	Comrade Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary! We would like to have a clear answer: Why is this concept, and then the appeal procedure for this event and the formation of a group to investigate this event removed from the law? There's no explanation. And I will only read the opinion of esteemed Professor Dr Jožet Trontl, President of the Commission for Medical Ethics, who says in his position: "This is an important category which must not be lacking in the law at all. From the point of view of the exercise of patient rights, this is an unfavourable event which deviates from the expected course of treatment and may cause unforeseen harm to health. The patient may be entitled to compensation irrespective of whether the complication can be attributed to a treatment error or to an objective circumstance. Without a clear definition in this important category that has emerged in many places in the marriage, it is impossible to speak." We have one competent opinion. We do not, however, hear the arguments that are being argued against by the proposer. That's what we're talking about, but we're not talking about it in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u252	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to Article 80 and to the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. There's no debate. We move on to article 80a of the amendment of the DeSUS Group. There's no debate. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 82, as well as the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. There's no debate. We are moving on to the consideration of the two amendments to Article 84. The first is signed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and the second is signed by the DeSUS Group. Comrade Germich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We define by law that the Ministry will address the reports of representatives, the Commission, as well as the reports of the Chambers and the Health Insurance Office, and will then prepare a joint report on the state of the protection of patients' rights to be dealt with by the Government. We propose that the National Assembly also hold an annual debate on this report. And that's the content of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 89a and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. There's no desire to discuss it. We are moving on to the last amendment or the last article, which is Article 90, and the two amendments to this Article. Anybody want to talk? The first amendment is the amendment of the SDS Group, the second amendment by the Desus Group? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the amendment to the title of the law proposed by the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Your word, Comrade Germitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The title of the law is the Law on Patient Rights, but Article 3 and Article 55 under this chapter discusses the duties of the patient. In view of the fact that we do not want users, that is, those who apply this law, any incomplete information, we want the title itself to bear the definition of the content of the law. So don't just talk about rights. He's also talking about duties. We therefore propose that the text of the law be amended by adding responsibilities to the rights and making it the title of the Law on Patients' Rights and Duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Since there is no wish of course, Madam Minister, please, the word is yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u257	I'm sorry, I'm not as fast as you all are, so sometimes I miss the debate. Regarding the address, we are talking about the patient's rights and duties, which we also discussed in the first reading. Given that 99% of the members of the law speak about rights, it is also an article that speaks specifically of duties. That is why we decided to leave this address behind, but it is understood that every right is subject to a duty. But only because of this inequality did we leave this address behind. However, it is clear that there are different opinions in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u258	Thank you very much. We have concluded the debate on individual amendments and articles tabled. The amendments will be decided on Monday, 17 December, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we continue or move on to 24. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. In doing so, I inform you that the House of Liberal Democracy addressed a letter to the President of the National Assembly, reading: "In yesterday's announcement of time, we had an unloving event. We forgot to announce time at the 24th point - Mandate-voluntary matters. Please allow the LDS Emissary Club 20 minutes to discuss." As chairman, I will not do this because the President of the National Assembly, at the previous point, has denied the Group of the Slovenian National Party the same wish. And since I believe that the same criteria must apply to all, we will stick to the deadline and deadlines so far. Under this item, the assembly will consider, for the first time, four proposals by the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function, secondly, a proposal for a decision appointing eight members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17 of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and the findings - termination of the mandates of the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, established in 2006. We are moving on to a debate on individual proposals. First of all, we are moving on to the debate or consideration of the four proposals of the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary. The Council of Justice submitted four proposals to the Assembly for the election of candidates for judicial office to the courts of the District Courts in Ljubljana, Šentjur pri Celje and Vrhnika. Since I don't see a representative of the Council of Justice with us, I won't offer him a word either. The proposals, however, were treated by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no speakers for the debate, so we will decide on the proposals for decisions in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Monday, 17 December, in the framework of the votes. We move on to point 2 in the context of the mandate-election cases, to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing 8 members of the Radio Television Programme Council of Slovenia, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Villary Commission, which proposes to be appointed as members: Boris Grabrian, Petra Jančič, Bineta Matoha, Dr Leon Cloud, mag. Stanka Okoliša, Dr Hubert Fireman, mag. Anton the Whisperer and Dr. Matevž Tomšič. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Tanko has the floor to present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! In front of us is the first regular exchange of half of the members of the Radio Television Programme Board. This time we will replace those who have been drawn for a two-year term and have also been proposed by civil society groups. We estimate that the Radiotelevision Programme Council has done its job well at this time, as it has done well to address the problems and initiatives that accompany the work of the largest public media service. Because of its status and role, Radiotelevision is particularly exposed to the opinion of the critical public and I hope or believe that the public institution is doing its job, its role, or its mission each year. In the functioning of the public service of Radiotelevision Slovenia, there is always a judgment between public interests, and during the transmission of many content to the public and during the commercialisation of individual content. In view of the need for the public service of Radiotelevision to support and broadcast content that is not interesting for commercial television, compromises are sometimes needed and even in these most viewed or visible terms, in the so-called 'prime-time'. Otherwise, it raises the question of how to promote certain areas that are not interesting to commercial media, but are nevertheless needed in terms of the spectrum of plurality and the promotion of certain content to the general public. It should also be said that the reporting style in daily news broadcasts is different, it has different emphasis on commercial media. And that's right. As a result, we might expect to see or listen to daily news shows, but it is important to stress that such an approach nevertheless satisfies a very large circle of consumer information. Even more, ratings are increasing, new content is coming in, internal reserves are being used, despite limited resources or unchangeable resources in the field of subscription, these resources are actually even lower. And as of 1 January, the third so-called parliamentary channel begins. All of these are the content that we need to provide for public broadcasting. I estimate that this content has improved during this period of work of the Programme Council and that there has also been an improvement in visibility. Therefore, we can thank all those members of the Programme Council who will leave the Programme Council for their contribution. The selection of candidates prepared by the Mandate-Election Commission, these 8 for a new period, in our view, is good, is professionally diverse and there are different areas of participation of individual candidates, also coming from different areas. The so-called regional representation is also taken into account in this case. It is a matter of distinguished candidates, from various fields of expertise, different experiences and I am sure that they will also be able to contribute to the good functioning of public broadcasting through their impartial work. It may seem somewhat out of the question that the proposal is not sexually balanced, that it does not adequately represent women, but unfortunately some good proposals have not been complete and have been ruled out for formal reasons. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u260	Thank you very much. For the speaker, I invite Ambassador Alojz Sok to present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u261	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we will therefore appoint 8 members of the Programme Council of Radiotelevision Slovenia. Let me remind you that this body is a 29-member body and that, in fact, because of this programming council in the National Assembly, many words have been said in the past, that this was also one of the main reasons why we had a referendum on this law, in which the law, as such, was confirmed. In accordance with this law, of which 16 members are appointed by this National Assembly, the Programme Council has great powers. Let me remind you that the programming board adopts RTV programming schemes, that the programming board adopts and sets programming standards, that it adopts the programming design, that the programming board adopts the programming production plan, then gives its opinion to the statute, the financial plan, that it also has its tasks regarding the establishment of the Director-General of RTV and so on. Very large powers on one side. This also puts very high standards on the other hand, who can be appointed to the programming world. In the first place, it is intended to be for people who, with their knowledge and reputation and achievements, have contributed to the general development in the Republic of Slovenia and, as such, can also help to raise the reputation of public RTV. Of course, it must be said that this is not only a programme world task, but also all others connected with this public television, editors, journalists, and not least with us here in the National Assembly. So do we. It depends on how we represent this image of our central institution in the media field in public. It is very important, and I would like to point out that the Programme Council also deals with the comments and suggestions of the audience. And for this very reason, I think it is very important who is in this programming world. Today we will appoint 8 extremely competent people according to our assessment in Novi Slovenije, of which we expect a lot. May I also remind, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, on this occasion, that the representation of the Programme Council is set by a regional principle. This means, of course, that you are already a legislator and also all those who do not live in Ljubljana, we want this public RTV to cover the entire area of the Republic of Slovenia more evenly. I hope that this city is also allowed to advise this programming world. For all those who do not live in Ljubljana have a feeling, and if we did some analysis of the situation, it would probably also be confirmed that this public Slovenian RTV spends most of its available time and reporting on events that take place in Ljubljana. And they're less likely to go to other places. We feel that the more the place is underdeveloped, the fewer they appear with their cameras and reporting from those parts of Slovenia. Thus, it will not be unnecessary to point out that this public RTV regularly monitors the situation of the Ljubljana City Council and that we are all more or less familiar with what is going on with Jankovic. But what is happening in other cities, including Slovenian cities, or, if you want, urban environments, not only in the field of politics, but in all areas, either culture, or economy or other areas, to report this much less. We would therefore like this programme scheme and programme policy to be regulated in such a way that Slovenia is fully represented by Slovenian citizens and citizens through various events that are very important for all of Slovenia, not that we have the feeling that this public Slovenian RTV is often too Ljubljana, that it is only what is important in Ljubljana, but that it is irrelevant what is outside Ljubljana. We will support these 8 proposals proposed by Kviaz today and, like my predecessor and on behalf of New Slovenia, would wish this very important and responsible public RTV body a success.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Zares will present the position of Ambassador Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Let me begin by saying that we will not support the proposal. However, we agree with what has just been said that high standards have been established in this programming world. High standards that meet the need for candidates to ensure the rule of majority, power and power. One high standard applies to the election of these candidates to the RTV Slovenia Program Council. And this standard also results in programme world sessions being held in a way of surrealistic events, in view of the discussions we have seen in public and in magnetograms, when the president of the programming board, Dr. Granda, descends into controversy with the philosopher in a way that threatens him with shame, by maintaining his voice and by lying. During these years, the Programme Council has clearly demonstrated what has long been clear, especially since its composition was determined by the leaf harvest. He behaves as if he were a government cabinet. Therefore, in this programme world, four members did not support Mrs Hribar, the Government of Miheljak, Lesnik Pučkova and the representative of the SAZU. That is why there could have been such a humiliating debate at the last RTV Slovenia Programme Council meeting when journalists who had problems with the situation on RTV Slovenia and had warned that more than 15 good journalists and editors had recently left the public RTV Institute, as they had been. Therefore, the President of the Programme Council dismissed them by stating that they wanted to draw attention to the critical situation and the pressures on RTV Slovenia, so the President of the Programme Council could conclude by thinking that he had very little or nothing left of all the discussions, except perhaps discussions about whether editor or journalist Vodušek has too much or too little to pay. But he certainly doesn't have a public office, even though he works in a public office. The latter is not a comment and a quote by Mr Grande. It is also because of this that the resignation of Mr Pivac, one of the members of the Programme Council, took place only after others had warned him that his activities in politics with membership in the Programme Council were not compatible. For at least four reasons, we will not really support the proposal for new members of the Programme Council in the Group. It may be legal, but it is certainly not ethical, nor logical, that as many as three members will be given a term of office for four more years or that they will have a term of six years together. Mr. Bine Matoh, proposed by the Association of Artists, Dr. Hubert Požarnik, proposed by the Association of the Human School Initiative, the Association of Catholic Educators and the Association of Slovenian Catholic Educators, and Boris Grabrian, proposed by the Association of Small Farmers Associations, were elected to the Programme Council with lots for two years. The logic of combining a two- and four-year term was incorporated into the law on the proposal of both domestic and foreign experts - then you accepted it, even though you called them so-called experts, but it was obvious that you had a fig in your pocket at the time. In fact, the possibility was allowed to destroy the concept of rotation and to ensure a six-year stay in the Programme Council, even though beyond the concept of substitution. In this call, President Kviaza decided not to call for the completion of incomplete statements. So, if, for example, Mrs Manca Kosher wrote that she agreed with the candidacy, she was eliminated because of this - and she was also treated differently as, say, the case of Mr Grabrian, who supported this agreement with the knowledge that she was aware of the consequences of this candidacy. We are, of course, wondering whether agreeing with the candidacy does not also constitute a behaviour on the consequences of such cooperation in the Programme Council. Mrs Koshereva herself confirmed in the discussion that she had been informed and that she had thought to assume all the obligations imposed by such membership, but no one had asked her to do so. And in a way, it's come to pass, maybe again, not the illegal, but the illogical distinction between one and the other. In addition, there are quite two members, which is legitimate again, but still in terms of the debate on plurality and pluralism and the capture of the widest possible range of candidates, two members, Mr Jančič and Mr Tomšič, have been appointed or will be appointed after the vote, but already confirmed in Kviaz, on the initiative of one and the same initiator. There are several other names coming into the world that we can remember from the times when we adopted both the Media Act and the RTV Slovenia Act. For example, the author of the so-called amendment currently at issue, which is stifling the editors in their autonomous work, at least because of such extensive interpretation or enforcement as has happened, not only with the help of the author of this solution, Mr Leon Cloud and Mr Grims, but also this gentleman comes to the Programme Council, which, of course, gives me pleasure. It is not true if it is not true, but it is a pity, because in this way it would be possible to defend at least more firmly the position of the enforcement of this legal provision, which was granted legitimacy here also because on RTV Slovenia does not come alive with the possibility of implementing the correction, if I quote the case that occurred last week, when I was expecting the already announced Omis on Monday and Tuesday to be announced, and on Wednesday the uninterrupted, Omis, even though it was precisely because some wanted to enforce their vision that they had not been able to do in one of the previous editions of the Omis, because the government occupied the entire space and at the same time insulted those who were not present. Maybe another time he'll show up if you're fixing me to have different names like that. We don't think it's necessary, even though this time this selection of members with the "plonk leaf" was not supported, this time you've already escaped more. But on such a composition that won't be plural enough if I use a dictionary that's already been inserted into my memory, it won't be plural enough. Of course, not being sufficiently represented by sex, it could have been different, because also those women who had run for office had met certain conditions, the roles were perfect, but it was necessary to carry out that name, to surround the name that was, of course, directed to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u264	Thank you. We're done. You have a procedural proposal. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This House is governed by this Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suppose, or should be in force both in this Hall and in the working bodies of the National Assembly. And I want to talk to you in accordance with Article 69, about his use, and I want you to make that decision. Today, in this position, which was just presented, the colleague mentioned a number of people. She's even embroiled with their views. Mr Grando, Mr Vodushka, not to mention them in any order. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I mentioned in connection with the Supreme Court's ruling, which is very important for the autonomy of journalism, because in the case of Ranc, the Supreme Court found that it was in the case of an intervention by former criminalist Kos, the current head of the anti-corruption office, that there was an unacceptable interference with communication privacy, i.e. human rights. And when I mentioned the word Kos in this debate, I was gravely interrupted in the debate, the session of the Commission was abruptly suspended, so that we should not talk about it, because this gentleman was not present at this meeting. If, in this house and in this National Assembly, all the same rules of the game, if not applicable to certain other rules of the game, are referred to as gentlemen and Social Democrats who run this committee, then I expect that you will immediately interrupt this meeting of the National Assembly and continue it only when all those mentioned by Mrs Shirca are present and will also be allowed to present their views, as we were taught at yesterday's session of the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. Otherwise, I expect that the conduct that we witnessed yesterday by the President of the Commission will have an appropriate epilogue in this house, in terms of ensuring democratic and cultural dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u266	Thank you. I would answer the honourable Member so that I do not know what was happening on the Committee and on the Committees. The meeting shall be chaired by the chairman, and his will must be respected. But I think it's a topic that probably goes to college or somewhere else. However, I believe it is necessary to ensure the greatest possible freedom of debate and only in extreme cases to stop the speaker. This is my personal position, but the views and ways of leading are different. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u267	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! How interesting it is to listen! As long as the former president of the current Pahorje SD was at the head of Radiotelevision and "Dear Borut" and "Dear Tone" were fighting over newspapers, who was more in control of Radiotelevision, which should be public, so everything was fine. But now that this red octopus's arm was cut off by a law that was passed and confirmed in a referendum, in the most democratic possible way, everything is wrong. This is a very interesting understanding of democracy. And where it comes from, the lady who just finished her speech presented herself beautifully. In fact, it leads to a man running into someone, accusing someone of being wrong in his last name, and publicly discrediting them. She didn't just discredit him, she discredited everything. She didn't do the first one, and she wasn't the worst. The worst personal discredit of this kind actually belongs to the SD Group, the one who says it brings a new culture of dialogue, namely to that Member of theirs, who recently insinuated one of the main editors or directors of Radiotelevision programmes, Mr Vaslet, that he is a man who is manageable, who can be blackmailed. Everyone you know, and you all know him well, you know he's the last man to ever let himself do that. But that doesn't bother you. Because he's not beating you in the same hand because he's thinking with his head, he needs to be discredited, humiliated, just like you did with those who are proposed here. I don't know if you really imagine that we're still 30 years ago when you can humiliate people when you're acting like an avant-garde, that everything is right for you, and those who aren't with you, but you know that, because it was said publicly, first the discreditation, as today, then the liquidation, if necessary, is physical, as this has been said publicly. Because it is not just an insinuation, you know, that when the president of the current Pahorje SD, or its legal and direct political predecessor, was at the head of Radiotelevision, you were still using other methods of control, direct control over these same journalists, which is undoubtedly by a legal judgment, confirmed, the case of Mr Ranco. Although the former president of SD was at the head of Radiotelevision, you went to search for information that you should not have access to without a court decision under the Slovenian Constitution to control where this journalist was looking for his information. You have gone gravely into his human rights and his professional integrity. And all this high-powered mental care that has been flowing into public television since you lost the referendum you yourself proposed is, of course, the most perfidious, the most distorted form of pressure on the independence of the media. This needs to be said clearly and loudly once and for all. And in doing so is assisted by a crowd of people, a crowd of politicians, virtually the entire current opposition, and assists the crowd, unfortunately, and this also needs to be said publicly, by people employed in other public communities. For a simple reason. Probably not that much of an ideology, but because they destroy competition in this way. But in this way they also lower the achieved level of democracy, lower the standards of Slovenian journalism and thus spit in their own bowl. And if you want the best evidence, when someone from RTV, the only one, by the way, who left the radio, went to a more paid job after his own decision to another medium, it was written about it and talked about it for weeks and weeks. But now that the entire Maga office is under attack, the only press conference that has been cited on this subject will be attended by the poor four journalists. Where's the press solidarity? Where are the same criteria for everyone? That's what I'm asking you. Where is the defender of that freedom of the media now? And this is the task of these people that we are dealing with here today, because the RTV world has the task of protecting this medium from its journalists, its integrity from the present, but I am particularly stressing this, even from any past authority. The same criteria must be applied to all [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u268	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u269	I was the only lady I spoke to before, so it's understandable. Today we are talking about the Programme Council and we are not talking about discrediting RTV Slovenia. We are talking about the work of the Programme Council so far and obviously also in the future, given the staffing. Especially because, in my understanding of the law, it is unacceptable to give an automatic mandate to someone for six years, even though the law says that the mandate in the programming world is four years. However, that the sessions of the Programme Council are surrealistic, and that is impossible to get ahead. If it is not possible to discuss in the programming world why 15 prominent journalists, editors, leave the house in a short time, why is such a situation not being remedied? If this isn't a problem for Dr. Grando, then what could be the problem? Avoid such important issues when they happen. There was a very late debate, but they did. And then exterminate them, if, yeah, because elsewhere they're better paid and so on, don't hear them and end them with the whole discussion. "But I have nothing left of this discussion," said Dr. Grand, who, by the way, agrees as a doctor to reduce and to press cultural shows at the expense of something else. The Programme Council, which agrees that Pyramid is the greatest success for her, including the four members of the Programme Council who left. Mr. Grimes, people don't have blindfolds. Not only are they watching TV, but they can't believe you, even if you hope so. The programming world is not as it was here when the law was passed, arguing that it would be composed of respectable, credible, that it would create some good This television does not defend itself, nor defend it at the moment of crisis. [[...]] Today, perhaps it is not yet a crisis because financial resources are being drawn from elsewhere. One day it will be. But tomorrow, and then this programming world will be in trouble, especially when it has to give its answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u270	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although I intended to discuss the decision to appoint eight members of the Council, this will also be the case. What I've been listening to is now the second time the Grimes fairy tales have been called. I think it's very clear what was tried at the beginning of this power to do with the media. On the one hand, we had the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia and the establishment of the Programme Council, as we will see today, in a political way. In addition, we had, starting with the Mercator affair, an attempt at the berlusconisation of Slovenia, because it is necessary to control the media. Unfortunately, this experiment did not take place in perfection. And now we have a story, as it is called, of a further conflict in which we will all be involved in the months leading up to the elections. That's different. Any opportunity will be used to ensure that we are always well-educated in this conflict between economists and politicians. Brejc Michael, assistant, dear colleagues, e-mail from 29.11. where this Michael Brejc, an assistant to the European public, reports that gentlemen who own the works, the Dnevnik, the Evening, the Primorski News, the Finance, and so on, are members of individual political parties, even more, they are the ones who have simply been influenced by the existing executive authorities by 570 journalists and held them by the hands when these 570 journalists wrote a petition against pressure on journalists. That's what Brac Michael, assistant, e-mail says. You can have it, I'll send it to you. What am I trying to say? The President of the Government, along with the so-called confidant, brought some structures to this National Assembly. He also brought a structure where Bonnier, a Swedish company, is the owner of Finance, and financial journalists write their own on the policy of Minister Bajuk, President of the Government and so on. And it's also right that the Journalists, Dela, write their own dinner. Everything we should do to leave the press alone. But it hasn't happened yet. We have heard today that the President of the Party whose member of the Group of Members I was is the President of the Programme Council. Mr Kocjančič was appointed President of the Programme Council as President of the Olympic Committee when he was no longer the party's president. You're talking about journalistic solidarity. Journalist solidarity for those who have been bulwarks is obviously not necessary because there is political solidarity. And I'm going back to the agenda. Today we will vote on some candidates for the Programme Council. One of the candidates said: "I declare that I am going to apply for a member, member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed by the National Assembly. I am aware of the conditions set out in Article 17, paragraph 3 and 4, of the Law on RTV Slovenia and I fully comply with them." He's totally doing it. He signed to meet the conditions. The second stated: "I declare that I am applying for a candidate for a member of the Programme Council, I am aware of the terms of the RTV Act and am ready to act as a member of the Council in accordance with the provisions of Article 17, paragraph 2, of the Law on RTV Slovenia." It does not fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 17, paragraph 3 and 4. But this other one has received your, as it is called, political support and will also be appointed as the former responsible editor of the work into the programming world. That's what we're talking about today. We are talking about the political appointment of members of the Programme Council, and there is nothing to help with these stories. I only regret that the Sectional Service of the National Assembly and the Mandate-Electorial Commission are being abused for pre-exclusion [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Eleven candidates. [[...]] I apologize to those who have given their consent, and we have not given them the opportunity to vote, but you have politically excluded them. I apologize to them, on behalf of my own Members and of course the Members you have prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Grimes, you were appointed. Here you go. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u273	First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Brick for this extraordinary presentation of this new quality of political culture, which is brought by Pahorje SD to Slovenia. It was really a perfect show, I hope that everyone will publish it to the greatest extent possible. Now, what's in it? When there are no arguments, personal discredit follows. Personal insults, then they start to gloat, and in the end, it is very clear that he does not care if Slovenia is being lied about abroad. When we discussed this - the issue of the so-called petition, on which you mentioned me - on our committee, a number of materials were presented, of which each claim in this petition puts evidence and verifiably on a lie. She says she's not real. When I called, in particular, at the beginning of the 6 hours of the sitting, the applicants, this is not the responsibility of any of the journalists, this is the duty of the motioner, but you were members of the opposition to submit materials to confirm those statements that you yourself put at the starting point, there was not a single piece of paper presented. That's what's worth telling about history. There wasn't one piece of evidence. And when you talked about these journalists, it must also be said that it was very clear that the relocations of the journalists you are talking about are only due to this change because the requirement of the company, pardon, the RTV Slovenia press union was to be incorporated into the law by which the editor forms the entire editorial system himself and completely alone. And that's when they're proposing the law, and we just accepted it and it was included in the law. This was the request of the RTV Slovenia syndicate. That's what you have to say. But you also have to say that these journalists went to other well-paid jobs. And this is not a short period as you spoke, but a period of validity of the new law. That's two years now. Well, then, of course, that's a lot different. And you know what? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] All the way to the end. [[...]] When you mention the former president of the party you're in, let me tell you what you're really into. The former President of the party you were in earlier and with whom you are now in the new party, but Mr Tone Rop was provided with a service through his secretary-general, so that Mr Golobič could just call on RTV and tell the camera to go back to Mr Rob just a few years ago. And that's what happened. No one else can do this under the new law. And these are the times you mourn, and before these days we must be defended by this composition of the programming world that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-12-13-SDZ4-Redna-34.ana.u274	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Monday, 17 December, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council established in 2006. The mandate-holder commission presented the following decision for the meeting: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Gregor Pivec has made a declaration of resignation from the function of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. Therefore, pursuant to the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 18 of the RTV Act, Slovenia shall terminate its mandate as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council established in 2006. The term of office shall expire on the date of adoption of this Decision. I take note of the decision submitted by the assembly that the decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this sub-point and terminate the 24th item of the agenda. I am adjourning the 34th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at nine o'clock. Thank you for your time and good night.
