ParlaMint-SI_2007-09-06-SDZ4-Izredna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Thank you. I begin the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Ivan Yelen, Maria Possonec, Roberto Battelli, Joseph Horvat, Alojz Sok, Mag. Majda Potter, just Bevk, mag. Milan M. Cwickl, Marijan Pojbič, Miro Petek and Dr. Marko Pavlich. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the date of the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 5 September 2007 meeting. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so we are moving on to a decision on the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 57 of whom voted against none. [[in favour of 57 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is the announcement by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the Magi derogation. Janez Christmas - Minister of Transport, Dr. Jurette Zupana - Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology and Mag. Andreya Bručana, Minister of Health. On 30 August 2007, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, informed me that they were mag. Janez Bozič - Minister of Transport, Dr. Jure Zupan - Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology and Mag. Andrej Bručan - Minister of Health resigned as ministers. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, finds, for the first time, that it is a mag. Janez Bozič has ceased to serve as Minister of Transport and under Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been operating pending the appointment of a new Minister or Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; secondly, that Dr. Juret Zupan has ceased to serve as Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology and, on the basis of Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, carries out ongoing operations pending the appointment of a new Minister or Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly; thirdly, that he is Mag. Under Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Andre Bručan has ceased to serve as Minister of Health until the appointment of a new Minister or Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mag. Janez Christmas, Dr. Juret Zupan and Mag. I thank Andre Bručan for his cooperation and for their work, and I wish them the best in their work. I hereby conclude the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for participating, and continue to have a nice day.
