ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the media, everyone else, good morning! Time is gold, we have important themes ahead of us, so I am starting with the 24th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Today I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by only one MEP, Bogdan Barovic, from 12.30 p.m. on. We're moving on to 35. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Council will consider the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia, the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of a Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, 13 proposals by the Judicial Council for the election to a judicial function, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the State Election Commission, the Proposal for a Decision appointing a President and two members of the Administrative Committee of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Nuclear Power Plant Krka and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Koška Nuclear Power Plant, the Report of the Mandate and Election Commission of the State of the Republic of Slovenia concerning the notification of the District State Prosecutor in Ljubljana, the Foreign Section of the Kočev, the authorisation to initiate a criminal procedure against the Member of the National Assembly of Slovenia, the Report of the President of the General Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia on the notification of the decision of the decision of the Pre-election of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of the Republic of Slovenia of the Republic of Slovenia of Slovenia of the decision on the decision on the decision for the decision to decide for the decision to decide of the decision to decide of the decision to decide of the decision to initiate for the decision to open of the decision of the decision. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. At the same time, I would like to inform you in particular that we will hold secret votes on the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia at the same time, following closed discussions on both proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As we know, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, by letter dated 12 January 2007, proposed to the National Assembly that Prof. Dr. Franc Grad be elected judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the proposalr, Mrs Magdalena lorry, for a further explanation of the proposal. Welcome to Parliament! The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, and the President of today's session! Dear Members and Members! As has just been said, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, has decided to propose to the National Assembly of Prof. Dr. Franz Grad, a university graduate lawyer as constitutional judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The candidate, who belongs to a group of top legal experts in the constitutional field in the Republic of Slovenia, has spent more than 20 years enriching, supplementing and developing his knowledge at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. For half of this period, for 10 years, he was a regular professor of constitutional law, and for the past 5 years he was the head of the Department of Constitutional Law. In addition to serving in this respected research and training institution, which has also allowed him to transfer his knowledge to many younger generations of fellow lawyers, he has actively participated in all the most important legislative projects in the field of state administration and local self-government in our young country. There is also no way to ignore his participation in the seven-member section, which has already drafted a draft Slovenian Constitution in 1990, known as the Podvinska Constitution. Professor Franz Grad is the author of numerous articles in the field of constitutional law and co-author of several textbooks and other professional and scientific works, with which he has gained a wider international reputation. The full knowledge of the functioning legal order of the candidates' impartiality, principle and commitment to legal culture and, in particular, to the rule of law, all of this represents an important contribution to the quality of work and to the decision of the highest constitutional court in our country. The consent of Professor Franz Grad to the candidacy for a constitutional judge is understood as a mature knowledge of an excellent expert, educator and researcher to offer his knowledge and rich experience in this part of his life to develop, progress on the one hand, and, on the other hand, maintain and continue his reputation, which must also be enjoyed by the Constitutional Court of each democratic state. On behalf of the proposer, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the honourable Members and Members, please elect Prof. Franz Grad as Constitutional Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs. Tovornikov, for explaining the proposal. The proposal also addressed the Parliament's Mandate-Election Commission as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Sušnik, to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Chairman. A respected choir! On the basis of the Constitution and the Law on the Constitutional Court, the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly to elect the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia Prof. Dr. Franc Grad, a university graduate lawyer born in Ljubljana, a regular professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, chairman of the Centre for Constitutional Law at the Institute of Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. In preparation for the decision-making and meeting in the National Assembly, the Commission considered and concluded that all formal procedures, both by the proposer and in the framework of the preparation for the meeting and the decision-making process in the National Assembly, have been completed. She concluded that the proposal by the President of the Republic was prepared in accordance with the Constitutional Court Act and that, on that basis and on the basis of the Constitution, the National Assembly would be able to decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic to elect a proposed candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of this, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to elect Dr. Franz Grad as Constitutional Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. However, if elected, the function would begin on 1 April 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. In so doing, let me say that the time for discussion has been set by the College in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 67 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with practice, which means that each group of Members shall have 10 minutes. Mr Kokalj has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u6	The Novi Slovenije delegation group has already explained to the public its position on Dr. France Grad's candidacy as a constitutional judge, submitted by the President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovšek. On 27 September 2006, the President of the Republic issued an appeal to collect proposals for possible candidates for a single vacant seat of Judge of the Constitutional Court in accordance with Articles 107 and 163 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Articles 9 and 12 of the Constitutional Court. This call is not a right, it's the President's duty. At the invitation of the President of the Republic, three applications were received within a certain period of time. On the basis of these applications, the representative of the President, and not the President personally, held talks in individual parliamentary groups of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On 16 January, we expressed our dissatisfaction with the conduct of the President of the country, who did not have the right to have a personal conversation with the legitimately elected representatives of the legislative branch, as was now in practice. Nevertheless, the Group of Members has accepted the representative of the President for a discussion. From the discussion itself, disappointment was expressed on both sides over the small number of candidates applied for the seat of constitutional judge, i.e. concern was expressed about sufficient and appropriate choice when more seats in the Constitutional Court will be vacant in a short period of time, as well as five. For this reason, in the New Slovenia Group, the president's proposal for the candidate in question surprised us so much more. He was proposing a candidate who didn't even take the call. At our second meeting with the representative of the President of the country, we also expressed our opinion on restraint to such conduct. For we believe that by ignoring the candidates that have been declared, without argument, the President will achieve the implementation of a procedure that is far from legal practice and the basic principle of parliamentary democracy in general. At the same time, there is a well-founded danger that fewer candidates will come forward in the future and the President will open up room for the choice of himself and the rules of parliamentary democracy to put into practice a different system that our Constitution does not actually foresee. Above all, we also miss the reasons why he did not select any of the candidates applied for. In view of this change in the meaningful application of the Constitution and the law regarding the appointment of constitutional judges in the Republic of Slovenia, we cannot provide uniform support to the proposed candidate in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Bajc, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, has the following word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u8	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal of the President of the State for a candidate or to appoint Prof. Dr. Franz Grad as constitutional judge. We reiterate our surprise, however, that the President of the State has not applied the previous President's already established practice, as well as his, since the beginning of his term of office, that before important decisions, such as the application for a member of the Constitutional Court, he has invited representatives of individual parliamentary groups represented in this national assembly to the talks. We also express our surprise that, on the basis of the law enabling him to do so, the President chose an expert and proposed him, but did not select an expert from the applicants who applied for him. Third, what I would like to say at this point is that he chose an expert in constitutional law, but we know that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u9	I'm asking for a little more attention!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u10	At this point, the Constitutional Court has lost a civilian expert. [[...]] Finally, in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we expect the President of the State to renegotiate in the next round, should he re-negotiate the candidates for members of the Constitutional Court, given that the five other Constitutional Judges will be given a term of office this year, make a choice from the candidates applied for and not as in this particular case. Notwithstanding these peripetions, the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support Dr. Grad as a member of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Žnidarsič on behalf of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u12	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representative of the President of the State, colleague and colleague! The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will support the candidate for a constitutional judge, Mr Prof. Dr. Franc Grad, because he is a prominent top of our constitutional profession, he was co-founder of the Slovenian Constitution and we think that he deserves this appointment. We do not want to comment on whether the President of the State has consulted us or not. We think he's considered his proposal carefully. Regrettably, there have been few candidates registered, and we fear that there will be fewer if the practice is followed, that everyone who has five minutes of time should be allowed to comment on the decisions of the Constitutional Court rather than all of them representing a unified position in that decisions of the Constitutional Court should be respected and enforced in practice, whether we like it or not. Thus, no authority in the past or in the present. We are disappointed about this, so we hope that we will slowly mature in the knowledge that this is necessary. That is why we will support the candidate, this, and also the next proposed that the Constitutional Court may work as best as possible in the relevant composition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Mr Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! This year's Constitutional Court will substantially change its image as more than half of the Constitutional Judges will be replaced, in fact, by two thirds. And the President of the country already carried out the procedure on the first proposal in a rather unusual, rather self-sufficient way. First, it was suggested that one of the three candidates applied for the invitation to tender would be proposed. On the basis of this information, the Group of Members identified, took a position and supported the candidate, Mr Mozetič. However, the President of the country somehow bypassed the proposal, bypassed all the candidates that had been declared and proposed a new fourth candidate. Dr. Grad is a respected professor, recognised as a legal and, above all, as a constitutional expert, who has worked and participated in the work of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly. As regards the expertise of cooperation and also the correctness of cooperation with the Constitutional Commission, we have no comments in our parliamentary group. Even though we have some knowledge of the work, method, and quality of work of Dr. Grad, we have decided in the parliamentary group to have a conversation with him. He was asked a number of questions, from constitutional issues, including other current issues relating to the role, tasks, responsibilities and responsibilities of the Constitutional Judge and the Constitutional Court. We also discussed, among other things, the delays in the Constitutional Court, possible solutions and some other matters. It must be said, however, that the candidate has given clear, concrete and satisfactory answers to all the questions and will therefore be supported by the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy will be presented by Mrs Lovtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Member of the LDS Club or Members of this Club support the proposal of the President of the Republic, Dr. Janez Drnovska, who proposes to us, in our election as Judge of the Constitutional Court, Dr. Franz Grad, University Professor of Law. Dr. Grad was also head of the Department of Constitutional Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana in 1991-2006, and is now chairman of the Centre for Constitutional Law at the Institute of Comparative Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. In addition to Dr. Franc Castle also teaches comparative constitutional law, electoral and parliamentary law, European constitutional law and local self-government. It is therefore more than excellent professional references. Those who have ever worked with Dr Grad, either professionally or in our Parliament, know that with his expertise he has always been prepared to help in various expert groups, to find optimal solutions and legislative proposals in areas where his knowledge has often been indispensable. Some of us remember it from the beginning of the Slovenian Constitution, for example, he was also a member of the first expert group on the reform of local self-government in this Parliament, and his many good solutions are in the law on local self-government and in others, related to this issue, laws. He also participated in laws on electoral and parliamentary law. I also know him as in the Council of Europe as a truly valued expert and member of the Council of Europe Expert Committee on Local Self-Government. It's definitely dr. Also due to our personal qualities, we are confident that, because of his already well-deserved commitment to strengthen the legal culture, the rule of law and to strengthen respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, we can expect him to perform his duties as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia in an honorable, highly professional and impartial manner. Members of the LDS Club of Members will therefore be supported as Judge of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. He will be the last to present the position of the Social Democrats' Group of Members, Mr Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u18	Mr Vice-President, Madam Counsellor, President of the Republic, colleague and colleague. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will unanimously support the proposal of the President of the Republic to elect a regular professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Franc Grad. Mr Franci Castle is a recognised constitutional lawyer with many years of experience in the legislative and educational work. He was one of the professional co-formulators of the first text of the new Slovenian Constitution and is a connoisseur and publicist in many special areas, which are the content of the judgment in the Constitutional Court. We are convinced that his special commitment to consistent respect for the profession and constitutionality also ensures that his election will contribute to the reputation of the Constitutional Court and to the development of constitutional practice in Slovenia. In autumn, the 9-year term will run out to five other Constitutional Judges and Judges. The election of new members will represent a special responsibility and challenge for the President of the Republic as a candidate and for the National Assembly. The Constitutional Court is not only the highest court for human rights but also exercises direct control over the constitutionality of legislative, executive and local self-government decisions. This often makes him not only an interpreter but also an active co-creator of our constitutional and legal system. With this special role and responsibility, it is always in the eyes of the professional and political public. In particular, his difficult decisions are interpreted in a conscious way many times. Sometimes she's not prepared to apply them consistently in law. They are also often politically rated and, in some cases, even the votes of individual judges are considered to be the basis of their assessments according to their political suitability, even for the European judicial institutions. Although we already have a solution in the Constitutional Court Act that the Constitutional Court can never be without all the judges and outside the operational capacity, since in the event of non-election, judges who have passed their term of office continue to perform their judicial functions, and in the proposal for a law prepared by the Government will also be proposed to resolve certain issues that have not been settled so far, the timely election of the Constitutional Court judge, each of them, will certainly be important for his functioning and reputation. The inability to choose could mean a kind of constitutional and political crisis that we should not want. Since, in recent times, every proposal has become so important and because it is particularly critical to assess the conditions under which an individual proposal has been made, it is precisely because of the election of future constitutional judges that the President of the Republic would like to draw attention to the great responsibility that the President of the Republic will have in this professional and political sense. I therefore believe that, before proposing these candidates, it should be considered whether or not it would be possible to re-establish the practice of consulting with parliamentary parties about the candidates who have been declared and who are likely to be candidates. I do not say that this can necessarily ensure success. Even less, I say that this is formally necessary and unconditionally rational. However, it is sometimes in policy to do something about creating a better atmosphere and cooperation, regardless of the fact that the leaders of the parliamentary groups may not be sufficiently high-ranking for the president of the country. I suggest that the President of the country consider this. He'll make his own decision. Our Group of Members and I, personally, will not make this a problem. But someone else may already be doing them or will be doing them, so it shows us how to think about it. And one more time at the end. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote in favour of the President's proposal to elect France Grad as constitutional judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Everyone has five minutes. And the first one is mag. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Surely all of us here today are aware that democracy works when society is on balance. The same applies to individual institutions. There have been many discussions with the Constitutional Court in this regard, and perhaps for some reason a surprise that today it has been very clear that we will support the proposed candidate in the SDS Group. It is certainly a responsibility to take this element into account, first of all, on the one who has the only right to propose candidates. This is the president of the state. It is certainly our legitimate expectation that, in the future, it will also give due attention to this element. Today, we will support the proposed candidate. In the light of the stories of how the President of the State acted, what the procedure of this proposal was, it would be a shame if he remained by the side of what is an extremely important message from a political point of view, with the support of this candidate. We will support him because we will give a significant advantage to his expertise, his great experience, his life's work, including his cooperation in the creation of a new Slovenian constitution. In the right light, it only shines if we look back a little bit and compare it with the legal practice of the last decade. It turns out that our support to Dr. Grad from this point of view will be a major step forward in the field of Slovenian political culture, because we prefer professions to politics. The practice of the past decade was that governments, then led by the LDS, were politicising every single institution. Unfortunately, it must be made very clear that this can also be proved to the Constitutional Court. Indeed, we are the only country in the world where you will find the former President of the political party in the Constitution and that the measure will be full, this is the former President of the former Communist Union. By definition, this is a real paradox for the European Union from its point of view and for the world's legal order. The one who once led an organization that, by its definition, systematically violated human rights, is today assessing what human rights are, and is the guardian of the constitutionality and legality of this country. At the very least, it must be said that this is unusual, that it may even be unworthy of a democratic state, but it certainly has nothing to do with some European established standards. Our conduct from this practice will be essential, essentially different, so I warn you, in this light this is a great step forward also for Slovenian political culture and let us hope that the example will also be for all the next governments, and whoever will lead them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the next word. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Sculpture. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u22	For a long time, I think this is one of President Drnovšek's wise moves, mainly because of two things. The real thing is that he proposed a truly top-notch expert and took advantage of this opportunity to select an expert on his own. That's why I support his path. And on the other hand, it is that he has chosen a politically neutral man and I think it would be good for each president to choose from now on so that this candidacy and support can no longer be measured by political vats, but by moral vats. With regard to moral vats, I will put my hand in the fire for all that Mr Grad has done to do good for the welfare of Slovenia. I have full confidence in him, and I will gladly vote for him. I must say, however, that the President's attitude towards the Members we receive or to our cloud branch is legislative, I do not think they have mirrored what his books say about the truths of the world. I think that enough glare has already been on the Commission, here in the National Assembly and also here in the public to change this relationship, to become more democratic, to become more trustworthy, and then to such candidates as this, to come through with fewer observations or less friction than we normally do now. That is why I call on Mr President Janez Drnovsk from this city to change the relationship he has now with the National Assembly and the Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. I listened with interest to opinions and explanations. There was much to hear about the way and the procedure in which the candidate was proposed, but very little about what is essential to me as a Member. The content of a vessel is more important than its shape. All I know about content is this - and this is all I care about and will most importantly affect my decision - I can make sure that Prof. Dr. Grad does his job honorably, professionally and impartially. But everything that led to this journey, and I don't care that much. That is why I respect Mr Drnovsk's proposal, I consider it excellent, and this is what the legal profession is about to do, and I will gladly support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs. Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I am also joining the opinions of those who feel that the proposal that we have before us today is a very good proposal. And it was time for him to become a member of the Constitutional Court, in fact, a professor in this field, one who has taught many constitutional judges so far and who deserves this place most. It seems to me that, above all, there has been some kind of amazement in the coalition, and it is also embarrassing, because, in view of what has been happening with our President recently, I would like to present that the President is sending bad proposals to the National Assembly or proposing bad proposals to the National Assembly. I think this time the President has again demonstrated how good proposals are being sent to the National Assembly, regardless of whether or not he is meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Personally, I think that these good proposals reflect the fact that the leaders of the groups of Members are not being met. I speak somewhat cynically, but I must say that I also understand him in some way in his conduct. Of course, I must also object to the opinion of one of the parliamentary groups which, in the introduction, wanted to say in some way with their teeth squeezed that this is somehow inappropriate, that it might not even be legal and democratic. The proposal shall be transmitted in full accordance with the law. Moreover, the law explicitly gives the President of the State the opportunity not to choose from the candidates applied for, but only to propose himself to the National Assembly. And there is no way that I can understand the challenge of this group, which in this way wants to demonstrate undemocratic conduct. I think that acting in accordance with the law is democratic. And do not insinuate some concerns in a way that, of course, may mean a problem. Today, there must also be a message and a national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here I would actually now refer to Mrs Zalockar's statements on coalition thinking whether we will support Mr Grad or not. Here I can tell you that there were no great dilemmas here. So please keep your insinuations to yourself. However, we expressed some surprise about the unusual way in which he proposed himself, not whether his way was legal or not. Otherwise, I personally understand the role of the Constitutional Court in particular in deciding all those matters which are in any way related to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, we know that this very institution has been in the past period, and unfortunately, even in the future, more and more hearings are being allocated to this particular court, which is why, as we know, this court has been virtually now faced with judicial backlogs, especially because it is being filled with all possible and impossible cases. It's a lot of abuse in this institute. And right here is the role of constitutional judges, at least I understand it so that only the court can assess whether it is competent to deal with individual cases or not. Here the role of an individual judge or of all judges is extremely important. Here it is not only important his expertise, his references, but it is also important that he is ideologically unburdened, that he is politically neutral and that he is actually correct and impartial. However, if we look back, we know that there have been quite a few debates and also judgments by the Constitutional Court, including those in the public and legal professions, which have raised dilemmas, or in fact all of the hearings have also been under the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court or there have been some abuses. I must say, in the parliamentary group, we had a consultation or meeting with Professor Grad and I was very impressed. It was practically possible to present in his statements and also in his own account that it was an extremely professional person, who, in the future of his work, is primarily in the sense that the Constitutional Court should play the role it has in the Constitution as it has in the law and also that it is for the benefit of Slovenia and, in particular, our citizens and citizens. Therefore, I have no doubts that I would not support him, because I believe that he will contribute to the reputation of this court both in Slovenia and abroad, so I will give him my own support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I also invite Mr. Rugl to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. It's been a long time, and I won't say anything else either. If I make a summary, I can say that the proposal is good and I will support Mr Grad as well. Of course, I would not support Mr Proposer. This message from the National Assembly, I think it's a message from most of the applicants that they heard what he was like. I think that the President has somehow bypassed the invitation to tender, or even those who have applied for this invitation, although the law allows him to do so, I do not think he has made the most democratic move that this important function is supposed to be in that country, but also to the opinion of some of his political options, so that he can consult more Members here in the National Assembly. Last but not least, the Constitutional Judge does not stand up in person, unless you want to put the Constitutional Court to order. I think that such advice would not be too much, although I must say that the proposal is good and Mr Grad, as far as I can see, I know that it has also helped to create the Law on Local Elections, that he may still be able to deal with it, as well as with the Republican Election Commission, how this law interprets itself in the future. The proposal, as I said before, is good, and I will support it, and I would not if I said it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I also ask Mrs Magdalena Truck if I would like a word on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to thank all those who have pointed out in their contributions that the whole proposed procedure was legal and consistent with the laws. However, a number of Members expressed surprise at the way the proposal was proposed or at the fact that the President, as was said, had bypassed the three candidates who had volunteered. Sadly, no one wondered what the reason was. Given that I was empowered to hold consultations with the parliamentary groups, by the way, I would like to thank all those who have accepted me for these talks. In the first round of consultations, when the three candidates were discussed, it was possible to assume that none of the three candidates would receive the required majority in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the President was unable to accept one of the proposals from one of the parliamentary groups, but first to propose to the National Assembly the candidate mentioned here, and when this candidate is not elected, he will propose to someone who has not volunteered. President, I think that according to what is said in these books, he is thinking positively and does not want to propose to the National Assembly of Candidates which would not have been accepted. First of all, due to respect for the work of the National Assembly and secondly, even for the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Please, if you can turn off the microphone. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. By letter dated 29 December 2006, the President, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposed to the National Assembly that he appoint the Governor of the Bank as mag. Mitjo Gaspari. Once again, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Tovornikov, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u34	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposes to the National Assembly that he appoint Mag. Mitjo Gaspari. This is a man who has been very important and successful in monetary and economic policy since the creation of our country, especially since 1992, when he took over the management of the Ministry of Finance, which was particularly important for the young country. As a financial expert who first gained his knowledge and experience and then tested, both at home and abroad, he was entrusted with the position of Governor of Banka Slovenije in 2001. After six years of running this important and independent institution, it is the opinion of a number of domestic and foreign experts that the governor has always been guided in the right direction. The correctness of its guidelines and decisions in the management of this institution is best reflected both in the stable banking system in the country and in the success of all citizens and citizens, with the introduction of the new European euro currency on 1 January 2007. Mitja Gaspari, together with his colleagues and with the most responsible political and other professional actors in our country, has made an important contribution to the fact that Slovenia, as the first of the 10 new members of the European Union, has met all the required criteria for joining the euro area in a very short time. This is already a big enough reason for the recognition that our country has shown at international level. And if we conclude after the ceremony which was held at Cankarjev dom on 15 January this year, the Republic of Slovenia has also shown him all recognition, including by assigning him a seat in the group of the most visible domestic personalities, the President of the State, the President of the Government and the President of the National Assembly, and the highest guests from the European Union. It was a picture that went around the world. The fact that they were both successful and very well coordinated, including with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all preparations for the technical introduction of the euro brought us additional positive assessments of all those who accompanied this courageous step, both in Brussels, Frankfurt and Strasbourg. If we also add all the methodological and statistical adjustments needed to the standards of the European Central Bank and the successful integration of the Bank of Slovenia into the system of European central banks, then we understand that it is the current Governor, mag. Mitja Gaspari, who rightly earned the trust of his proposer, Prof. Dr. Ribnikar, who proposed Mitjo Gaspari as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia for the next 6 years. Dear Members and Members! Still, I think it's a mag. Mitja Gaspari is not a man for all time, as Thomas Mann would say, just as we all do. However, he is a man who, with his knowledge, experience and personality, will always protect Slovenia's national interest, not only at home, but also as a member of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank. These are the reasons why the President of the Republic of Slovenia wishes to entrust him with another mandate to run the Bank of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members! Trust him, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The proposal also addressed the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. Nevertheless, I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Sušnik, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Assembly! The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides for the appointment of the Governor of the Central Bank of the National Assembly. The Bank of Slovenia Act, however, provides that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia for 6 years at the request of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. In early October 2006, the Governor of Banka Slovenije informed the President of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the National Assembly on 31 March 2007 that the Governor of Banka Slovenije had a 6-year term. Therefore, the President of the Republic of Slovenia issued an invitation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia to collect proposals for possible candidates for the vacant seat of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. On 29 December 2006, the President of the Republic forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Mitjo Gasparija, born on 25 November 1951, Master of Economics, current Governor of Banka Slovenije. A more detailed explanation or presentation of his work has also been given to the proposed candidate. The proposed candidate agrees. That was the conclusion of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The President of the National Assembly shall, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, propose the appointment of mags. Mr Mitje Gaspari for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, chaired by the President of the Republic, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Management Election Commission. In accordance with its competences on the proposal, the Commission discussed the proposal at its 26th meeting, on 24 January 2006. In a long, thorough, momentary debate, the proposed proposal was discussed on all sides. The Commission notes that the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Bank of Slovenia Act, and on this basis the National Assembly will be able to decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the Bank of Slovenia Act and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On this basis, the Commission adopted, by a majority of the votes defined, a decision informing it of the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia as mag. Mitja Gaspari and proposes to the National Assembly that the proposed candidate be appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia for a period of six years by starting to serve on 1 April 2007. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word has magic. A priest on behalf of the DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u38	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Adviser to the President of the State, colleague and colleague! Our Group of Members will support Mr Mitja Gaspari as the candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia because he sees no reason why this would not be the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs Pozsoncheva has the floor on behalf of the National Community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u40	We have a proposal to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Mr. Gaspari is too suggestive. And he's trustworthy. In his earlier period as minister and later as governor, he proved that he had knowledge, skills, and that he was an honest man. And he put all of his mentioned qualities into the service of the State of Slovenia. With it we have gone from tolar to solid currency, to the European Union to the euro. And sooner than our neighbors. And he did nothing wrong to us and our economies. A few weeks ago at the Euro takeover celebration, he commended his work on the very top of Slovenian politics. And now we're wondering if we can confirm it or not. This young country and our young euro need him, his work. I hope that the Members will vote in the interests of the Slovenian state in a prudent, responsible manner and because of a political structure, we will not rescind the branch on which we sit. I'll back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. There are no procedural proposals at the time of the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups, Mr Pece. I didn't call you because you were outside the hall. On several occasions, your parliamentary group has expressed the desire not to call you when you are not in the hall. That's why I kept this. We continue the debate. I'm sorry, but if someone's late, they have no right. I'd be in violation of practice. Mr Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. This year, mandates for officials in certain important state institutions are due. All mandates go beyond the mandates of the members of the National Assembly, and therefore the applicant, in this case the President of the State, bears an even greater responsibility for his proposals. In view of the fact that the President is only the candidate of the candidates chosen by his personal judgement and submitted to the members of the National Assembly for their decision, it would be very useful to take a suitable way of communicating between the applicant and those who decide for the benefit of the candidate, in the interests of the integrity of the applicant and in the well-being of the public image of the State. Dr Drnovšek, President of the Republic, carried out his own procedure for proposing a candidate for governor. He has chosen a mag as his candidate. The Gaspari, the former governor, and the financial minister of his, are said to be Drnovsk's governments. As a matter of fact, the president's favourite has been his close co-worker and political companion, who has kept abreast of the Slovenian state's finances since his independence. Six years ago, he also replaced the successful governor of Dr. Arhar. The parliamentary group met with the candidate twice, alone and twice with the other coalition parties. Once we had an appointment with candidate Gaspari, there was an intervention from the parliamentary club. One of the members of the Liberal Democracy called me and suggested that I change the term of hiring because I was supposed to have a mag. Gaspari obligations. And that's interesting, he didn't intervene with the governor's office, he didn't intervene with the governor, he did with a courier from Liberal Democracy. And that's very unusual. Given that this is an important function, we have had a thorough discussion in which we have asked the candidate a lot of questions. Some referred to the last shining event, the January takeover of the euro, for which there is no doubt much credit to Banka Slovenije and Governor Gaspari. The path to the euro was hard and long and required excellent cooperation from the Government, the Bank of Slovenia, the National Assembly and others in policy planning that led to this great event. The Governor and his associates are not denied credit for this feat, but the splendor of this event cannot be the only criterion and argument for our decisions. At the time of the transition to the euro, there has also been a slight insurrection, with banks charging fees at the time of taking over euro coins, which mainly affects smaller entities that cash a lot of small cash. In fact, the governor made it clear that he was not even aware of the commission. I think it's one of the dots in this takeover of the euro. From the Governor's term of office, there are also indications that the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is not sufficiently determined in the event of the conversion of the feeding and credit services, in the event of the transformation of the SIB bank. For example, the SIB has been filling urban and state policies for a long time and has allowed one group to make an excellent exit from the imported bank. But there's still a lot to cover. Many, thousands of savers who have lost many billions of dollars and are still awaiting their right in court proceedings against Banka Slovenije have also been affected by the conversion of food credit services. The questions also related to the period during which the candidate held a responsible and challenging political function when he was Minister. From this period, we have left clumps, unexplained and incomplete processes that have led to targeted allocation of public funds. For example, at a time when corporate companies had not yet been granted ownership, the Minister of Gaspari failed to control foreign cash flows, so a number of managers were able to dispose of foreign currency assets, instead of holding domestic banks in foreign banks' accounts and then working with these funds either to own these companies or to set up new companies. The rest are insufficiently explained the circumstances of the State's actions and unsatisfyingly secured aids; here the case of Optimism is raised in all its emerging forms. At the same time, we cannot forget the big games that have been accompanying the property transformation of casinos for years. The government has not implemented the decision imposed on it by the privatisation of banks, which the current governor, the current minister, has not prepared, but has nevertheless joined the privatisation process. Similarly in insurance companies, for more than four years the third treatment law was not prepared. This has caused a number of complications regarding property and property holdings in insurance companies. For example, the complications of the Triglav Insurance Company have been solved for several years and it is not yet quite clear what the real interest of the government and liberal policy was. As a result of the fencing, there have been large stories with this insurance company, and at a time, in a period without law, several recapitalisation agreements have been issued, with which the share of social capital has been reduced and it is likely that the acquisition of insurance companies has also been planned. The consequences are also in very different values of the Triglav Insurance Company. A number of moves have also been made in the implementation of budgets that have distorted the public financial image. On the one hand, the extension of the financial year on the revenue side, on the other hand the reduction on the expenditure side, and thus a significant change in the image of the public financial deficit for those budgets of the year. At the same time, there were also other ways of drawing on funds, especially in the congregations. The latest events also refer to various documents, secret and sent to the European Central Bank or the secret internal, which have come to the public, and this also points partly to problems in the organisation of the Bank of Slovenia and in the system of responsibility of the Bank of Slovenia, and this does not give rise to much confidence. When confidentiality was removed from the Bank of Slovenia documents sent to the European Central Bank, some of these documents were indeed obtained at the request of ownership and possession. Later these documents were also sent to the National Assembly, but by letter that these same documents, which were given to some and sent for personal use, were only given for observation to others. And I want to know why the Bank of Slovenia acted like this. I would also like to know whether there is a short right of Members to equal use and availability of documents and of these institutions with the same marking. The publication of the internal material also showed that this black scenario had actually taken place or had been processed. Here are some, say, mainly figures of the budget deficit four times, five times different from those announced in these conservative government forecasts and here there were also planned very conservative revenues, expenditure slightly different, but there was no basis for such large differences of three percent, four percent difference. The fact is that part of these assessments also appeared in reports from foreign institutions and this placed Slovenia in the position of an uncreditable partner, a partner that raises doubts and doubts and also raises doubts about the current Slovenian public finance policy. The projections from the confidential analysis are also quite similar to those produced by the former analyst of Banka Slovenije, who also performed the courier role in his discussions in the National Assembly, as I said in the introduction. After examination [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The candidate's work and responses have not changed, as nothing relevant has changed during this period and the candidate for Governor Gaspari will not be supported. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Robbery on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u44	Dear Members, Members, Mr Vice President! The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, proposes to the National Assembly that we today call the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia mag. Mitjo Gaspari, former Governor of Banka Slovenije. In the LDS, we are convinced that the President's proposal is appropriate, logical and good, so we will be happy to support it. Mag. Mitja Gaspari, through his work so far as a long-standing finance minister and in the last six years as Governor of Banka Slovenije, has undoubtedly co-created the successful economic development of Slovenia, its successful integration into the European Union, and finally the successful and effective adoption of the euro. Slovenia is also thanks to the mag. Gasparia entered the European Union as the best-prepared new member of the European Union and took over the euro as the first member of all the new members this year. Mag. Mitja Gaspari cooperated and successfully co-created both fiscal and monetary policies in finding a long-standing path to achieving and meeting the Maastricht criteria and thus entering the European Union and the euro area, in the first period as Minister of Finance in the area of achieving a public financial balance or an appropriate public deficit and public debt. Despite the multi-annual recession in the European Union, we have joined the most successful Member States of the European Union in losing an important part of the market for the Slovenian economy and debt takeovers in its time, and what is important, given the successful and stable economic growth and the continued decline in unemployment. This has not worked for any new member of the European Union. During the second period, as Governor of Banka Slovenije, he actively and successfully participated in reducing inflation and the long-term interest rate in our country and thus meeting the remaining Maastricht criteria, which has also failed no new member of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the work of Governor Mitja Gaspari so far is closely linked to the transition of the Slovenian economy after independence. When we assess his work in some way, we also assess the success of our transition. The international public, the European Union, the European Central Bank, the statesmen of virtually all the Member States of the European Union recognise and confirm our success. It was confirmed by the European Union when, as the first of the new members of the European Union, they entrusted us with the Presidency of the European Union next year. It was confirmed to us by the European Central Bank and the euro area Member States when we were accepted as the first and only among the new members of the European Union. And it has been confirmed by all of us, just all the Presidents of the Member States of the European Union and the President of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, at the last celebration at Cankarjev's home. Last but not least, the President of the Slovenian Government and SDS also agreed with them when he said at this celebration [[Quote]] : "Slovenia has been on a successful path of development and transition since the break-up of Yugoslavia and independence." Moreover, he added: "As of today, I owe thanks to all the presidents and members of Slovenian governments, and especially to the finance ministers and governors." I hope you still remember those words, because the Prime Minister of the Government has forgotten them all. Mr Mitja Gaspari was an active co-creator of a successful economic policy, first as Minister of Finance, then as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, during this successful period, as spoke of by the President of the Government. So what's the problem? What bothers most of the ruling coalition? Because after several times seen scenarios, phantom secret documents were suddenly found to prove that Banka Slovenije provided the European Central Bank with secret documents with negative assessments of the Slovenian economy, which would show our country as unable to reach the convergence criteria for entry into the euro area - transparent, condescending but very typical of the way in which the ruling coalition and the current government operate. The reaction of the Prime Minister of the Government, who has already made a statement, is also interesting and typical, [[Quote]] , 22.1.2007 on POP TV: "We worked well with Banka Slovenije during the preparations for joining the euro area. Even with the governor himself. In the coalition," interestingly, "we reached a fundamental consensus on his support on the coalition before these issues came to light. Now it's an open question." [[End of quote.]] So, if what the President of the Government says is true, the coalition has already decided to support the Magi. Mitjo Gasparija for the Governor of Banka Slovenije. And then I would expect that today, especially after what we have heard in the last days. It turned out that the secret documents were not, of course, completely clear. And it's funny if someone claims to be a mag. Mitja Gaspari tried to prevent Slovenia from entering the euro area after 15 years fighting for it, every day and again. It has also been shown that it is only part of the analysis of the public financial risks that would have occurred if the Government did not act and if the revenue and expenditure trends of the budget continued at the same pace. Finally, the calculation of potential risks is the responsibility of Banka Slovenije's professional services and there is no dispute in any way - there is no doubt for the professional, but it is for the Slovenian ruling policy. Of course, governments do not worry about a similar analysis, which is much worse and worse than the European Commission, which has estimated that Slovenia is practically the most risky Member State of the European Union in terms of public finances; only Cyprus is more at risk than Slovenia. But obviously the government is not particularly concerned, it is obviously more concerned that all of this should be known, as it is at home and in the EU. For nothing, everything is well known, and soon it will be seen. Dear Members and Members! Today we're not just talking about Gaspari. Today we are talking about the past, present and future of Slovenia. We are talking about the past and our common success when we assess Mr Gaspari's work backwards. We are talking about the present when we listen and look at the way the ruling coalition works and decides today. And we are talking about the future, and we will decide when we vote in favour or against Mr Mit Gaspari. Once again, we will decide on the relationship between the Government and the institutions that should be in successful democratic countries, and in successful democratic countries, they are independent, independent, professional and upright. Independent, independent and upright because this is a fundamental condition for the effective functioning of the whole society, economy and development. Dear Members and Members! Slovenia entered the euro area as the first of the new EU members days ago. We can all be proud of this together, but at the same time let it be a commitment to a successful action in the future. In the new circumstances, the importance and role of fiscal policy is substantially greater and the role of the Bank of Slovenia has been changed. Her primary role is control, her primary role is analytical. And that is what Banka Slovenije does, and this must be done by Banka Slovenije if we want a successful economic policy in Slovenia. In the LDS, we believe that the publicly expressed support given to Mr Gaspari by the President of the European Central Bank, Mr Trichet, the support of the European Commissioner, Mr Almunia, and, last but not least, the support of the Slovenian President, Mr Drnovska, is no coincidence. That is also why we will be pleased to support the election of the Magi. Mitya Gaspari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Potč has the following word on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The National Assembly is ahead of an important decision. For the first time since Slovenia became a full member of the EU and for the first time since it began to manage monetary policy and decisions equally within the European Central Bank, we will decide on the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. At the same time, the Governor, who will be one of the 13 euro area bank governors who in the world of governors of the European Central Bank decide equally and independently on the monetary policy of the countries whose common currency is the euro. The President of the State proposed to the National Assembly to elect the Magi. Mitjo Gaspari. It is right to point out that, according to law, some Members and Members of the Group are also trying to question this procedure and to propose only one candidate. The groups of Members have, in most cases, clearly defined their attitude towards the proposed candidate. The proposed candidate group of Social Democrats fully supports and will vote in favour of the election. We can also expect the election to be supported by Liberal Democracy, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS. Such are clear statements, due to respect for the proposer, both Members and Members of the Nationality could thus be expected to act. However, the election of the proposed candidate, and this is of particular importance, depends mainly on the conduct of the Members and Members of the remaining three parties: Democrats, New Slovenia and the National Party. These three parties have, in the last 14 days, made false, semi-true or fabricated allegations and accusations to justify their opposition to the proposed candidate. While the debate so far has largely shown that these charges are unfounded, it is also right to stress these facts today to clearly see the reasons for the conduct of individual parties and, on this basis, their responsibility for the possible non-election of the proposed candidate. The public and accessibility of all, including some contentious materials from the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank, was soon to reveal how the facts and fictional stories had not really been linked in order to undermine the credibility of the candidate. This is also the characteristic of the content of the claims made in his letter to the President of the National Assembly by the head of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. But such conduct by Mr. Nobleman is not a surprise. I am surprised, however, that you have been able to allow any possibility of a serious letter and accusations coming from the President of the Government and the President of the Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša, and from the Finance Minister and President of New Slovenia, Mr Bajuk. For both of them could, if they did not already know, remove any doubts about the incriminating structure that was done by one telephone call and conversation. However, they allowed the possibility that the Bank of Slovenia's internal professional assessment, which must be carried out at any time and in any way officially transmitted to the European Central Bank, was even aimed at unobjectively presenting Slovenia's financial perspectives in the European public or even in order to prevent Slovenia from joining the euro area at a time when it was already admitted to the euro area. Thus, statements were put forward in public that did not confirm these claims and even less denied them, thus allowing for suspicion of their reality. Therefore, we cannot consider the letter of the deer to be any serious argument against candidate Gaspari. However, there was an agreed or accidental reason for inadvertent and incriminating debates which gave its opponents grounds for false arguments and evidence. Unfortunately, both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance have not contributed to the absence of such discussions. In particular, the Prime Minister of the Government has increasingly shown his opposition to the candidate, as well as to the members of his party. I hope that the Group of Members and Members of the Slovenian National Party will, after the doubts raised by their President's letter have been clarified, reconsider their decision, as they are aware of the importance of the decision and the decisive role that each vote has in this regard by the present or absent Member and Member. And because they are certainly aware that we need a man at the European Central Bank who will lead independently, not a European Union service policy. This has always been the position of the Slovenian National Party. Thus, the primary responsibility for the decision remains with the two largest government parties. These two parties now stress the actions of Mr Gaspari during his political activities in the years when he was Minister of Finance and at the time when he was Governor of the Bank of Slovenia for six years. They state the political stories which they themselves placed in public at the time they were in opposition, forgetting that none of these stories were ever proved to be illegal or economically harmful, and even less that Mr Gaspari was responsible for them. And most importantly, they forget that it's a question that has been "long beard" and has by no means been created in recent times. They do not take into account the fact that all the Slovenian and European professional and political public consider Mr Gaspari to be a good and distinguished candidate, with important references just because of his work and the management of the Bank of Slovenia. And in particular, they forgot that until the euro was in effect and celebrated at the event, at least in public statements, Mr Janša, President of the Government, and Finance Minister Bajuk: either they changed their minds without serious arguments or they wanted to show themselves in principle before European policies, and after their departure from the celebration they could show their true colour. There are therefore no arguments against the candidate, but there are fabricated accusations. But they show that it is a political assessment of the two biggest government parties and their presidents. I am pleased that this is increasingly recognised and stressed by the vast majority of the Slovenian public. Therefore, Mr Gaspari's election to the Governor depends primarily on whether the ruling parties and their presidents, at least for the first distinct European function, are willing to support a man who is more independent than compatible with their policies. Are you prepared to support a person who will continue to strive for an independent but for the benefit of Slovenia the position of Banka Slovenije within the European Central Bank? Or is it that, although we are already participating in the Troika of EU Presidents and the year before we will chair it, we are increasingly committed to a narrow human resources policy based on political criteria rather than to European standards of conduct? This would indeed be unacceptable to the partners in Europe, especially when Mr Gaspari has been so clearly supported by European Commissioner for Finance Joaquin Almunia and European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet. I still hope that the arguments and responsibility for Slovenia will prevail, not political and narrow party behaviour. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will do so and vote in favour of the proposal of the President of the State to elect a mag as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Mitya Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Horvat has the floor on behalf of New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Dear Counsellor Mrs. Tovornikova, colleague and colleague! Slovenia is the only young EU member able to meet the Maastricht criteria and take over the euro. All of us in Slovenia should be a little more impressed, proud of ourselves, contributing to European visibility and, above all, national self-confidence. Who's got the credit? Today is certainly not the time to make the inventory or ranking of people or institutions that are most responsible for this truly great success of our country. Surely among them is Banka Slovenije, its Governor, certainly the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also the National Assembly and certainly all taxpayers and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. If we do not count Malta and Cyprus, which are probably the next candidates to take over the euro, Slovenia will be the only transition country in the euro area for some time. This fact must determine to a large extent the development and operation strategy of the Bank of Slovenia in the system of European central banks and the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the world of governors of the European Central Bank. The international visibility of Slovenia must be strengthened through the operation of the Bank of Slovenia and its governor in the euro area. The Governor of Banka Slovenije performs in the world of governors of the European Central Bank as a person of his own conviction and personal integrity. It is important that the Governor is an economist, with good knowledge of international macroeconomics, as confirmed by the CVs and experiences of the governors of other central banks of the countries that have taken over the euro. At the same time, the Governor also acts as the Governor of the national central bank, coordinating the activities and obligations of the national central bank in the system of European central banks. The Bank of Slovenia must play a more important role in the regulation and in particular in the control of the Slovenian financial sector. This role must be clear in particular from the point of view of the responsibility for establishing financial stability in the economy. The Bank of Slovenia is, unfortunately, the only of the rare national banks in the euro area and wider, which has not developed or at least developed research activities. It is crucial for the substantive issues of the participation of the Bank of Slovenia and its Governor in the bodies of the European Central Bank. Even more important is the role of detailed analytical knowledge in establishing the necessary financial discipline and coordination with economic policy makers in the country. Due to the smallness of the Slovenian space, coordination and communication between the Bank of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is essential. A case of good policy cooperation and coordination is the neighbouring Austria, which is dominated by the financial sector in the markets of South-Eastern Europe. The Bank of Slovenia has an extremely large information capital, which is not used to support the Slovenian financial sector more when entering foreign markets. Even less, concerted action with the Government will play an important role in the economic and political visibility of Slovenia in the international environment due to the changed role of Banka Slovenije in the euro area. The New Slovenia Group is the only parliamentary group of this National Assembly to have a conversation with both of them at the invitation of the President of the State to the submitted candidates for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia and thus wanted to make a gesture of respect for the personality of both. Of course, with the candidate of the President of the country, Mitja Gaspari, we have also assessed his work during the past six-year term. We have not forgotten the extraordinary meeting convened in May 2004, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which analysed and identified the responsibilities of the Bank of Slovenia due to poor supervision of the operation of food and credit services. As the Bank of Slovenia's supervision function will remain and should be strengthened, we have great concerns about the Bank of Slovenia's past lack of supervision. We also met with victims' representatives, former HKS savers. Today we cannot pass the trauma of these people who together lost some ten billion Slovenian tolars, even because of the poor supervision of the Bank of Slovenia. Trials are under way. We have not formulated our decisions on the basis of controversial documents, so-called controversial documents, nor have we dealt with them in the New Slovenia Group of Members, nor have we discussed these documents with the finance minister, as some have told us. We also explained this to the Slovenian public at the press conference, but unfortunately, as usual, this information did not fill the Slovenian media space enough. Your Honor! The decisions of the New Slovenia Group remain the same as they were six years ago: unfortunately, we cannot trust the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Pece. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u50	Your Honors are here! The Communication to Europe was the main target of the representatives of the groups of Members. What will be Europe's message? Is it not more important what it will tell the Republic of Slovenia, our citizens and our citizens? You are only concerned about what Europe will say, but this did not concern you at the time when the Governor of Banka Slovenije gave his signature to obtain a qualified share of the Belgian NCB for sale to the New Ljubljana Bank. Those moments were of little importance to all of you who made up the Government in the past periods. And let me start about the way things have been in the past. It was 28 June 1994, when on the front page of the central Slovenian newspaper Delo was able to track the good news for citizens and citizens to participate in the privatisation of the banking system, namely the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank in the future. This day, that is, on June 28th, was essentially the day when an extraordinary public-closed meeting took place in the framework of the National Assembly, the material still bearing the mark strictly confidential. At the said meeting of the National Assembly, at that time, Mr Gaspari was Governor of Gaspari, today's finance minister. Each member shall have the opportunity to obtain this material. At the National Party, however, we wanted the marking to be withdrawn from this material in strict confidence at the beginning of the week. In that we called on the President of the National Assembly to withdraw the label strictly confidentially and to let the Slovenian public know what the initial plan for the privatisation of the banking system was and what was the result. The fact is, this caused a breakdown. The President of the National Assembly's response was negative that he could not withdraw the label strictly confidentially, and I regret that, too, I cannot give you this material from this title. But I've talked about this a few times. And most importantly, in the whole matter, the current finance minister, Mr Gaspari, who is today the Governor of Banka Slovenije, whom in other opposition parties you say is the only one capable of running a central bank in the Republic of Slovenia this millennium, which I think is funny to believe that Slovenia has only one person who is capable of running a central bank, is, of course, the mudsling of our country. Slovenia is not as weak as you want to show it at home and abroad. But to return to that year 1994 - as I said - each of you has the opportunity to obtain a magnetic record. It was promised in the meeting room of the National Assembly when it was adopted to supplement the basic constitutional charter, that Slovenian banks would be privatised on the basis of law for the first time. Secondly, there will be a fundamental emphasis and content in this law on the participation of Slovenian citizens and citizens in privatisation. And if we look at it today, it's not real or the first conclusion or the second conclusion. We all know that banks do not privatise, I stress, do not privatise on the basis of privatisation law. We know what happened in 2002, when he went for sale or when he went to sell Nova Ljubljanska Banka, past the law, after all, solely with the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, past the National Assembly. And where did the sale of the New Ljubljana Bank lead? In these two stages, the first was a fairly public acquisition of 33%, the Belgian KBC and 5% of the EBRD. The second part was secret, this was the acquisition of a further share, of that influential share, which, of course, has now been withdrawn, because the Government has changed and it was possible to carry out the second part of privatisation as planned in 2002. But I would like to stress what is most important for the decision of the Members of the Slovenian National Party, none of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the citizen was not involved in the privatisation. But in the whole matter of not just talking about privatisation, of course, it makes sense to point out something else, the person who spoke and showed division in the National Assembly, even as a percentage of how many citizens and citizens will be back through privatisation, was the then finance minister, the material proposer, the one who copyrighted the matter, Mr Gaspari. In 2002, when we arrived at the moment of sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, this person from the finance minister moved to the governor of the National Bank. And, of course, the Governor of the National Bank has in his hands the last and most important tool called consent, consent or permission to acquire a qualified share to be signed by the Governor. I personally, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party on 23 May 2002, called on the Governor of Banka Slovenije, Mr Gaspari, not to do so to keep his own words spoken in the National Assembly. First time. And a second time. Let him respect the decision of the National Assembly on the privatisation of banks. There was no answer. Not without being negative, but of course Mr Gaspari has signed something that he himself has promised the National Assembly that this will never happen. The National Assembly of that year 1994, I return to the period before the resolution of the banking system, supported and proposed to the National Assembly, with the consent of some other February, and a decision was reached: the preparation of the privatisation law of banks will take into account the participation of citizens in the ownership of the rehabilitated banks. From this Decision it is possible to follow the three contents. The three content that none of us have achieved today in the framework of the privatisation of the banking system. First of all, the privatisation law of banks - there is no such thing. I think one of the speakers before me said that where you wanted to sell the matter in a non-transparent way, you avoided the roofing law where you wanted a transparent way, you passed the roofing law - the law on the privatisation of insurance companies. One of those cases. The decision goes on to say, "The participation of citizens will be taken into account" - ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament, has not been taken into account. The sale of the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank, which proved to be a wrong move in the past year, did not take into account the involvement of citizens with the withdrawal of the investor; and, of course, the ownership of the rehabilitation banks. Until 1996, there was a rehabilitation of the banking system where you valued or led two banks, Nova Ljubljanska banka and Nova Kreditna banka Maribor. That's when they both got Nova's address, and they didn't have it before. At that time, in 1996, the rehabilitation was valued at 2,200 million marks of the current German brand, and this was paid by citizens and citizens. And if someone then says what is the message of the National Assembly of Europe about the reception or the rejection of the Governor of the National Bank! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the message in the event of the rejection of the President's proposal is very simple: Slovenians are aware of their banks and we want them to remain among us, so in Slovenian hands. If this message is embarrassing to anyone, please choose that this should remain a disgrace to you. We are aware of another fact in the National Party, according to our assessment of the very important fact that is taking place in a given situation. If the story of the privatisation of the New Bank of Maribor by system, as it has happened in the framework of the New Bank of Ljubljana, this is a bad story, a poor journey for the financial pillar of the Republic of Slovenia, a poor journey for the monetary union and what is most important in the whole story, it will be a bad story to service services of a particular macro or micro region, so we must not make this mistake again. Of course, more than the fact that Banka Slovenije has in the past been led by this person, whom you claim to be the only capable, has failed in the role of supervisory function, the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, the Sigma project, and, last but not least, at the time of the entry into force or change of a very important area of fixed or sliding foreign exchange rate. And according to the assessment of the National Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group, there is more staff, more capable staff, and especially staff, who will be aware of what domestic banking means in their own hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u51	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Just like before, everyone has five minutes. I invite you first to the word of Mr Frantz Ferri Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! The decision on the proposal for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is extremely important and so much more responsible, since we will also elect a member of the Board of Governors of the European Central Bank at the same time. The non-election, I think, would be a very negative message for Europe, and we would actually be surprised to see what is happening to this country, which has so successfully carried out the takeover of the euro, and then, say, not deciding or deciding against the appointment of a governor. You'd look like you're not serious, and there's a lot more I could say with this. But I'm moving on to the facts. In this new situation, which Slovenia will indeed have a member of the Board of Governors, who will have a formal equal voice like all other members of the Council, the identity of the Governor will be very important, because its actual impact will depend on how much it will be taken into account, not what formal rights we have. In addition to expertise and experience, it will also be very important to have personal trust and acceptance by the European Central Bank leadership and other members of the Board of Governors. It is therefore not a coincidence that the President of the European Central Bank, Trichet, has announced his support and confidence to Gaspari in discussions and reservations. In order to decide on the proposal, it is important that the concerns regarding the works of the Bank of Slovenia or its analytical and research centre have been shown to be unfounded. Following the deployment of all materials, both those sent to the ECB and to confidential, working, internal materials, analyses and projections, this has also demonstrated the latest confrontation of the most responsible and competent representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Government, the Bank of Slovenia and national experts. It is important that there is no indication in the European Central Bank's autumn report on fiscal policy that would confirm the evidence of the alleged harmfulness of the Bank of Slovenia's analyses and projections or its analytical and research centre. One very critical statement is that there are also public financial risks in Slovenia over the medium term, but this is the European Commission's conclusion, a number of Commissioner Almunia's statements in this National Assembly as well. In attempts to incriminate analyses and projections of the Centre for Analysis and Research, it should be noted that central banks, including the European Central Bank, as well as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and other similar institutions in their analyses and projections are generally more conservative and critical than governments and government institutions and institutions. And that is good because they warned governments about timely action; this is also true for Slovenia. A greater error would be if Banka Slovenije and its research centre did not give timely warnings to please the Government. However, in the opinion on the alleged insufficient cooperation of the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance or the Government, it is worth noting that cooperation is always dependent on both sides and that the rules of autonomous institutions and rules in the ECB and the European Union must be respected. In order to assess the suitability of the candidate, Mr Gaspari, it is important that the candidate has the necessary knowledge, rich experience at home and abroad and enjoys international reputation. In order to assess the eligibility of the candidate, it is essential that he successfully led the Bank of Slovenia, including preparations to meet the conditions for taking over the euro as technical preparations for taking over the euro. Let me remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that at the annual hearing of the report of the Bank of Slovenia in the National Assembly, there were no comments on the work of the Bank of Slovenia and its management. Individual unsubstantiated allegations, even today expressed here and also some expressed outside this hall, are neither substantiated nor proven. By the way, with regard to HKS, the problem is in legislation, the problem stems from the previous mandate when Gaspari was not yet in the central bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Ljublješek has the next word. [[He's quitting.]] Then it's up to you, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think even a two-month-old story was best summed up by ex-Minister in the current government, Dr. Damian, who said, "I'm really sorry, I'm going to throw up with these Bajuk political intrigues in the background." I think he'll know by now, because he was a minister in this government, not in the previous government. Even today, when I listened to the opening statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups, when the arguments are listed, it is still good for me to know what is said about the past and what is happening in the present. When my colleague Tanko listed the arguments and mentioned the SIB bank, I would like to mention that he also remembers that he is sitting in this government now that this government is business-related to the main suspects in the SIB bank affair. I hope he knows that - or not. Or when he talks about the ownership and sale of banks, he might know that another governor has allowed two banks in Slovenia to sell, both Krekova and Koperska banka, to foreigners, etc., not to list anymore. So you have to have this timing a little bit wider-minded. I personally believe that the whole government, and not just the Ministry of Finance, has become involved in some sort of self-affair. No one from the outside, including "by-pass" parties, has helped much. If you and we have been closely monitoring the media promotion of this government's staff combination over the last weeks after the well-known scenario, you may have noticed that this story started in the cabinet of the President of the Government when he received an internal document of the Bank of Slovenia's analytical service. This just proves that there is still a very lucrative business and also an integral part of the governance of the country. On this basis, of course, the Minister of Finance asked to explain some of the projections that were recorded in this document. Instead of sitting down with the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia at the beginning of December, the financial minister remained silent throughout December and in the middle of January. And they took advantage of that hawk after that famous proverb, when the sheep go wild, they are even worse than the wolves themselves. And as the logic and strategy of those who are best placed in chaotic, conflict situations commands, this has become an ideal story for the appointment of the new Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. And that's it. Since 15 January, we have been listening only to criticisms and Gaspari critics have not been fasting or celebrating at this time. However, I believe that despite these criticisms, despite the insinuation, despite some of the unrealities of the positive qualities with which the President of the Government, the Minister, and thus the coalition, sang praises a few weeks ago, of course, will not be able to turn in a negative direction. Therefore, all insinuations have been made; political statements can be useful at this time when we are talking about these human resources combinations. That's why you can say anything on this occasion. You are a positive opinion and, of course, a recognised financial and banking expert, this is Mr Mitja Gaspari, in this way you will not be able to discredit. However, if you already have any jokers in your pocket for the new Governor of Banka Slovenije, but you could do it in a different way, you could be discovered, you could be honest, cultural, say you have another candidate, and not that you take advantage of this opportunity and spit and spit again with falsehoods and insinuations on other people.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I am right to say that our discussions today will have no effect on whether or not Mr Mitja Gaspari will be governor. That's already decided. Not here in the National Assembly, it's decided somewhere else. That is why all these debates may not make much sense, unless we want to talk to those who may be listening to what we have to say in this regard in public. We decide now not anymore. We will only find out later how it was decided when the results are announced. And that's why I don't think I'm going to have a very long discussion myself. I just want to say that the qualities that you can experience are either the results of work or personality traits, but those that prevent me from giving my voice for mag. Gasparium. I am also convinced of this due respect, not only for his work, but also for the part of the office and personality of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. What concerns me, at least, is the back of this event. It's no longer important whether Mitja Gaspari will be governor or not. It is now important what relations have been established. And to find that out, I've written out some of the things that concern communication between two very important state institutions. It is said that there is a lack of expertise at the Bank of Slovenia. Not just that, not even arrogant. That experts have their ears in there, so they can't hear the arguments at all, but that's exactly what they're saying. The words would still be acceptable in Parliament, and among such professional institutions this level probably should not have happened. They talk about how they simplify assessments, how unrealistic, misleading, how they fail to take measures, how they do not know public finances and how they do not know the appropriate methodology, and even if they do, they would not be able to use it. If all of this is true, then the Bank of Slovenia must be closed. With that, it's probably a magician. The Gaspari himself has nothing to do. But this, in our public and also between politicians, raises concerns about how our country's highest institutions can bet each other without feeling it. And that's probably something to resist. We would do well to resist in this way so that those who have shown so far that they can run this institution can be trusted once again. This consensus, in principle, we have already heard it today, has once been achieved. Parliament was almost uniform, and there was a twist, which was so-called a single parliament against two halves, with two opposite signs, and it looks like we're going to be working again as before. So that we don't know how to combine our thoughts, but that we can only stand up to each other. And I will support Mitja Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan's next.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! So, all this information I've been trying to gather and take into account only those serious, serious media outlets, and the reflections of the so-called profession, none other. And after some document was announced to be classified under strict confidentiality, there was no document there until January 20th. After something had leaked, the governor also stated that they had really sent some analytical data where they tested the variants, but there was no data after 2008. Well, then 27.1. in our serious media appeared a large title "The Bank of Slovenia Analysts have indeed predicted a breakdown of public finances by 2015". And in the contested document it is expected that the general government deficit in 2010 would be 4 to 5% of GDP and in 2015 it would be 8 to 11%. And this is the table that was published, which shows that it was really misleading, as stated in the bank, that they did not send any data later or further from 2008 to 2015 - catastrophic. And now the opinions of the profession. Director Umarja stated that "there would be no disaster if Mitja Gaspari had not been elected, if nothing else, in a state-owned culture where no function is predetermined to be occupied by a person who is irreplaceable." On the issue of the projection of the central bank, however, he said that "the one who predicted such a large deficit had to assume that the government would be very unserious in the coming years if it did, and the policy of the finance ministry should be put on the table." That's what you say, it's all very unserious of that data. It further states that "in normal risks it seems impossible for it to reach a deficit of more than 3%, or only 12 or 15%, unless it assumes that the government is completely passive, which does not seem real to it." And someone else, who was sometimes also a minister, said that "more than methodology seems important to him what we send to Frankfurt and Brussels" and "whether we need to coordinate and inform or not, if we send something there, we should at least be informed in the country." And now, what has also been published in one of the serious financial media, where two ghastly sins of Mr Gaspari have been cited. One of the so-called Optimisms, where, on the initiative of the then Minister, Mr Gaspari, a guarantee of 112 million was given, he had already had information that the then SDK had informed him that an application had been filed for the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure. And then, of course, the state had to pay for it. Secondly, the creation of the balance sheet of the Minister of Finance of Gaspari in 1998, when he simply wrote the revenue from that year for 1997 in order to make the balance sheet more beautiful. Well, we can also include this context, including last year's data and debate in Parliament, when it was constantly said that the country's debt would increase by 112 billion and that there was a risk of an increase in taxes. The Minister of Finance and the President of the Government had to answer all the time. And that was just when these data were already sent and when Slovenia did not yet have "the heat" to meet the convergence conditions and that it could move into the euro area, it is said that it will be able to accept the euro. And if you remember, it was because of the projection that she did not get the "hot" for the adoption of the euro that she could be admitted to the euro area for that very reason. These tables sent by the analytics sector and the domestic government deficit of 110 billion, which would not have been uncontrollable, were exactly at the time, but now I ask you whether the damage was done by Slovenia or not and whether this was not much coordinated. And after all that, I could say that when the finance minister was at the time, he was twisting the balance sheet of the country, and now that such data was leaking or leaving his institution that was damaging to the state, or maybe there's no work station here. You can ask yourself, I'm not saying it was so, it could have been an accident, but it's too many cases to be likely. And because of such a work in the future, and even now that it is harmful to the state by protecting himself earlier, he has given better information, but now that he is no longer in the government, he gives worse information about the government because he is not his Government. Of course, I will not support Mr Gaspari for this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u59	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Stebe's turn. He's not here. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All in attendance, all in attendance! I myself have applied to this debate solely for the reason that I explain my views and opinions, which I have in relation to that so-called strictly confidential document. Before continuing the debate in this direction, however, I would ask the question to future debaters, particularly the LDS and the Social Democrats. That is, if anyone can explain, what were the reasons for the search for the new governor after the mandate of the former governor, Mr. Arhar? It also applied and is still considered an excellent expert, who played an important role in the monetary system and the introduction of the tolar, and was also proposed by another. Were professional arguments irrelevant at the time, too, or were there other matters? With regard to this document, which we are currently considering or discussed so much about the public, I am particularly disturbed by the so-called strict confidentiality of this document, since it was primarily the capacity of the Governor to hear that it was exclusively working material. At Omiz on TV Slovenia we also had the opportunity to hear the concerns of a respected expert who commented on this document in view of its equipment with diagrams and with all those relevant elements, that it is difficult to believe that this document had only the role of working material, but it could have been a bit more behind here. I personally also have an opinion and support that the role of Banka Slovenije is certainly in that it is an independent institution, that it actually cares about a stable monetary system and that it does. I am also of the opinion that it must produce with its experts a projection of the macroeconomic situation or situation in Slovenia, also existing in the long term. I agree. However, this alone raises questions as to who these projections serve, whether they are directed at themselves or sent to a third party who, after all, is not even competent to adopt any solutions or measures on the basis of these projections. We can certainly miss here, in particular, that all these projections in this document have not been given any constructive debates, not in the public, but in the circle of those who will then be able to make appropriate decisions on the basis of such pessimistic scenarios, which are important for Slovenia; and we know that this has not actually been the case and that is certainly wrong. And that's kind of what's giving me the dilemma or the guesses that I'm also fixing for them that there's definitely more to the background here than just that. We know that it was in the National Assembly that committees in particular could hear similar information, similar data similar to black scenarios, which is highly likely that this could have been done even in some cooperation. Because here's some coincidence, I don't think it's an option. And I am of the opinion that any bad information, bad information from outside Slovenia, without the knowledge of those who are most competent for it, is not correct. And here I would just like to comment on Mr Rob's statement that the Bank of Slovenia, on behalf of the club, was a critical opinion by the European Commission to the future macroeconomic situation in Slovenia. Here you can be. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] we ask, on what basis they may have been given such views, perhaps also because of such information, which is sent under strict confidentiality by some Slovenian actors. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Kontic has the floor and Mr Bevk is next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If someone asks a question, it's okay to answer it. We were asked why we replaced Dr. Arhar, who is an expert who is still an expert today. Let me say that we have made a decision, at least for ourselves, we can, with certainty, decide on the proposal of the President of the country. The President of the State then proposed mag. Gasparija and similar to today, we also made a decision at that time. We didn't judge, but Dr. Arhar or Mag. Gaspari, but we did get a proposal that we decided on in the National Assembly. And just as I believed then in the good judgment and choice of the President of the country, the President of the country at that time, I attach this to him today. I am convinced that Dr. Janez Drnovšek, President of the Republic of Slovenia, was, in the light of the experience he has, and in the light of the knowledge of the candidate he is proposing, his finance minister or finance minister in the Government, led by Dr. Janez Drnovšek, that he knows exactly what he is proposing to this National Assembly; and in his opinion, I trust in his choice. I also have no problem with the way in which the President leads or conducts the selection of individual candidates for the most responsible functions in the country, even if he does not meet with all the presidents of the parties, does not meet with all the leaders of the parliamentary groups, he has found his way of working and his way of choosing. These Presidential novels also seemed to me not to say sometimes even funny when they knew what they were going to tell him in advance, and on that basis, the President also made a decision. Dr. Janez Drnovšek has chosen his own path, and I do not object to it. And when it's said there's nothing catastrophic about replacing someone who thinks himself is irreplaceable. I think that this is often happening in politics and will also happen in the future. I put this on my soul and heart, especially you in the government coalition. You'll run out of time to rule, too. People will replace this government as soon as possible. However, with the support of the current and my desire to carry out this function, it is also necessary to say that, for example, I do not know if it is the right term, a rather unusual debate on this in the National Assembly, when we all decide and report on how we will vote in secret. The secret vote is, of course, intended primarily for each Member, each Member of Parliament, at its own discretion, to decide secretly or decide how to vote on a proposal. So, in accordance with the decision of the Group of Members, I myself say that I support the announced decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u63	Thank you very much. As it is said, the next word is Mr Bevk, and then it is Mag. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When we decided on the Governor of Banka Slovenije six years ago, he was the candidate for Governor, Dr. Mitja Gaspari, Member of the National Assembly, and previously a long-standing finance minister and a top bank expert. The opposition, here I think of the then coalition of Slovenia, then told the candidate that, as the finance minister, he did not reduce inflation, that the country had a large budget deficit and low economic growth, that the Bank of Slovenia, with Dr Gaspari at the helm, would no longer be an independent institution and would be too much under the influence of the Government, and that it had an unmanaged view of the privatisation of the Bank and would sell them to foreigners. We can read this from the magnetograms of the day. Inflation is at its lowest level today. The budget deficit is not worrying. We have a solid, if not even good economic growth. At the end of Dr Gaspari's first term, we can see that Banka Slovenije has maintained good monetary policy and that we have a stable banking system in the country. We even entered the euro area and adopted the euro. In March 2001, when we had this item on the agenda, the then Member of the National Assembly, Janez Janša, acknowledged to the candidate for governor that he had chosen the one who had greater political power and support, and not the one he thought worked better. The current President, however, proposes one who has done well and not one who has greater political support. It is said that he put the candidate's professional references first, but he rejected the political criteria. So he made the decision six years ago that the then leader of the opposition and the current Prime Minister of the Government wanted. I don't think it's gonna be a tough decision today and it shouldn't be hard. I hope that the political plot will fail, so I will support Dr. Gaspari as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u65	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. And then Dr. Gaber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the President of the State! After a glorious victory in II. The World War II Prime Minister of the United Kingdom did not receive voter support in the first post-war elections because the voters probably did not consider victory in II. the world war personification and the credit of only one person. In this case, I think that all the praises received by Slovenia and the institutions, as well as the mutual recognition of the credits of all those who participated in Slovenia's involvement in the European monetary area in taking over the euro, have always been about the merit of individual institutions and holders of these institutions, of explicit references or of the exclusive reference of some, and I have not observed. In a rather cheery tone of those who support the candidacy of the current governor, Mr Mag. Mr Gaspari, you simply conclude that this support was personal support to Mr Gaspari. It is true that Mr Gaspari has been in politics for a long time, he has been Minister of Finance, he has been involved in certain government and political arrangements to carry a lot of credit and also a lot of burden in his actions so far. I believe, however, that despite the indisputable merits of Mr Gaspari, we cannot say that someone is irreplaceable and that someone is completely irreplaceable and that it is not possible in Slovenia to find the same quality and better experts who would be equally or more competent in these changed circumstances of the operation of the Slovenian Central Bank in the European Central Bank. Above all, with the less burdens that you are citing here, we are citing and referring to. There was no discussion in the discussions on support on these burdens borne by the current Governor. I think they are important for its integrity and its ability to act in the future. In particular, entry into the euro area was a joint project of many institutions, not just Slovenians. The strangest behavior and mistreatment for me was, at the mention of this document by Banka Slovenije's analytical service, which was surprisingly classified as working material, sent as such through all institutions of the Slovenian State, to which Banka Slovenije should also have been reminded, if such analytical assessments of the future state of public finances in Slovenia were made so clumsy and with such a delay by the Governor and then made publicly available on the Internet. I think it suggests strange, and I'll say again, awkward behavior in such a case. I, too, cannot support Mr Gaspari's candidate for other reasons mentioned in the various documents, because I believe that he will appear in Slovenia in the same or much better competent candidate for the amended role of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in the current European situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since I've heard comments from the House of Representatives, let me say he's a mag. The figures could be given a word because he switched with colleague Friday, this is, of course, possible according to practice. The next one has the word, Dr. Gaber, and then Mr. Ziherl. Dr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today there is much talk here about the Governor, the current one, and I would also like to speak to the further Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Actually, we're not talking about him. He has undoubtedly been the competent leader of the National Bank of Slovenia, which is recognized by everyone at home and even around the world. He is also obviously more than a suitable candidate for the governor in the next period. We're talking about something else here. We are therefore talking about whether the Slovenian Government or the coalition, which supports the Slovenian Government, and whether Parliament can think clearly about what is good for Slovenia, what would be normal for the rate of democracy in this country. We ask ourselves, and I think that unfortunately we have already received an answer to part of this question, whether the President of the Government can look around at the institutions in this country of competent people, people who know more about certain issues and deal with them independently, independently of him and his command desks at Gregorčič. His answer is that he can't do it. The government is led by a person who is afraid of competent people, the government is led by a person who is jealous if anyone in any area really knows more. Unfortunately, we have a similar finance minister. He has problems because he is in the position of governor and because he is once again proposed as governor, a man who has proved on several occasions that he is able to manage such public finances through very narrow margins even in periods where it was significantly harder to manage public finances than it is today during the period of economic upturn. So if the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government are in such a mental condition that they don't tolerate competent people, that they can't tolerate independent people, we're going to check here today to see if they're being transferred by the coalition. If Mitja Gaspari is, and I hope that he will be confirmed here today, it will be a good sign for democracy in Slovenia. It will turn out that slander, fabricated and forged into a quarter of the truth, is not what governs the country’s decision on such important cities as the city we are talking about today. However, if a person is not able to perform a certain function when someone remembers and defiles him, then this will be a message that will all sooner than good for that country. I want to be good to this country, and I believe that most here will be able to judge by reason of reason, but not by threat from or under a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Then Dr. Laharnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! During this period, when the President appointed Mr Gaspari as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, I collected data or impressions, positive and negative, which could affect my decision in today's vote. The positive and most recent information is definitely Slovenia's entry into the euro area, but I think so, as my colleague, that perhaps the governor was some sort of tip of the team that successfully carried out the project, but they also deserved the project. And they also take credit, so I will not be so affected by the Bank of Slovenia report that he sent to the European institutions, because such reports are read, then reacts and after half a year or a year after a new situation occurs, perhaps things can turn in a completely different direction. The more I deepened or analyzed his activity in the past, the more I made the impression that he was somehow dependent on the lobbies, that he was repeatedly in his past actions, that he was somehow preparing or doing services to the so-called "our" or some particular circle. And so over the years there has been a lot of reflection on valuable events, and that plus the introduction of the euro somehow destroys or even goes to the negative side. Perhaps he is already somewhat forgotten about the intrusion into the Yugoslav monetary system, where he may not have been able to react differently at the time. However, in the independent country of Slovenia, where it was much more independent, there were several events that cast a bad light on it. In 1993, 1994 there were events with Optimism, Sicuro, Soča and so on. Then, to me, a much worse offense or a negative act, a cover-up of a public deficit in 1997, when some kind of accounting trick took place there until 2001 or until his appointment to that position, and only then did these data arrive on the day or began to talk about them. And in this area, one wonders where this expertise is, on the one hand, the introduction of the euro is successful, and on the other hand, some sweeping under the rug or some concealment. Well, I might end up asking myself the following questions. With Slovenia taking over the euro, many tasks of Banka Slovenije are transferred to the European Central Bank and perhaps the governor's tasks are somehow reduced. I have seen in the newspapers, especially in financial sources, that it might show knowledge, connections and acquaintances that perhaps Mr. Governor or candidate would be more useful in some other institutions, perhaps in lobbying for financial resources. And perhaps it would suggest in Banka Slovenije to introduce some new, other power. Last but not least, I have seen today that the pay is not so negligible. Finally, perhaps even the thought of today’s Finances, when they wish him a peaceful age in Umar, a job where he could work usefully financially and thus await his retirement. I'm not going to support him for all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u71	Thank you. Dr. Lakhovnik has the word, and then it is Mr. Jerovšek's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Members! Since then, Banka Slovenije has been a cautious conservative institution since its independence. That is also why it is such a successful institution. Its assessments have always been more cautious, more conservative, and this is whether all of us who had the opportunity to influence economic policy in a different way or in a different way during our period have been able to appreciate even if Banka Slovenije's assessments differed from the rest of the institutions, such as the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and other institutions. This is something common, in fact, it is good that you have an independent institution that corrects its assessments independently of current policies; and then these assessments are an anchor for economic policy as well. It was never a particular question of why there are differences. The fact is, if we also look at the results of Banka Slovenije's policy, government policy, if you want to in the last period, then we can see that it is a successful policy, that, as far as the convergence agenda for the introduction of the euro is concerned, as well as further steps concerning the Stability and Growth Pacts, the role of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia has been decisive. And it is undoubtedly a very successful Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. It would be difficult to find any more serious evidence here, especially because the fact that Slovenia has managed to master inflation, which has been the main problem, and that inflation - in this regard we generally agree - is the monetary phenomenon and the Bank of Slovenia has certainly far more merit here. I am also pleased that in today's debate, many of you recognize these merits also to the candidate on whom we will vote today. So if expertise is not problematic, if excellent work is not problematic, then what is the problem. A lot has been said in the past days about the misuse of intellectual abilities. I was personally the most dismayed over this. Such a way is an attempt to lubricate someone who has proved himself by his professional work, which is difficult to identify as a lack of professional references. The saddest attempt of the current governor's masquerading is that this evidence of misappropriation of intellectual abilities is encouraged by exactly the President of the Government, Janez Janša, who was once acknowledged by the JLA prosecution in his more famous times. We can all remember that well. I've always been glad that these times are gone. Today, again, we are discussing in some way whether the intellectual abilities of some are being used properly, politically correct or inappropriate. The fact is that we have an independent institution, which is Banka Slovenije, to which we hope that we are all proud, independent of the policy, which makes appropriate independent assessments. It is also a fact that we have an independent president of the country who just makes a proposal, which he considers to be an expert who considers to be optimal for Slovenia. He has every right to do so, in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution. I am, of course, sorry in some way when I feel the pain of many who have it in the National Assembly, because the President of the State has not personally consulted them. I understand that many want political bargaining, setting conditions, trade, but that is not what it is now. And I am glad that this is not the case, because this is a message to all the professionals in this country, if they are good enough, if they are doing well enough, then they have the possibility that they are proposed independently of the current political buying of political trade, which has already proven to be bad in the past. That is why I am pleased to have this proposal and, of course, I will be happy to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor and it is then Mr Pece's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have an important debate and some speakers question the usefulness of such a debate. Some, however, even resented such a debate or resented the fact that their dedicated candidates for certain functions were allowed to be discussed. I have been taking part in this kind of debate at the time of the appointment of the Governor for the second time since I am a Member. Six years ago, as a candidate for governor, two candidates were serious: the former Governor, Mr Arhar, and the current Governor, then a finance minister or then an MP, probably at that time, Mr Gaspari, applied. Both distinguished financial experts. Certainly Mr Arhar quoted much better at the time, because he was the father of the Tolar, and we know that it was technically a tolar to introduce the country in the difficult conditions at the time, much harder than the euro today. In fact, in the financial field, Slovenia was also extremely successful in view of the difficult history and the short period of time of the independent country. However, in general, the then President of the Republic proposed to the public a surprise for the Governor of the current governor or candidate for governor, also proposed by the current President of the State. All of us who were then know that Mr Arhar had a remarkable hearing for democracy, a parliamentary democracy, that he had an extremely useful, good, respectful performance in front of the National Assembly. And that he appreciated the role of Parliament, appreciated the role of Members, and in this segment was Mr Arhar, Governor, a better candidate than that proposed by the President of the day, Mr Gaspari. And we all wondered, most of us wondered why Mr Arhar was not proposed, because then this extermination of Mr Arhar was uncompromisingly carried out by today's opposition. And I am pleased that today's Secretary-General of the United List, Mr Kumer, has actually offered one of the arguments in his debate why it happened at that time. In fact, he said, "political innuendo is still part of political marketing". Since Mr Kumer has stated that political innuendo is still part of political marketing, I believe that Mr Arhar was then a victim of political innuendo. And I am pleased that Mr Kumer, as the then Secretary-General of the United List, made this clear so clearly and explained - that political intelligence was the main method of work and the method of discrediting certain personnel in the past who had the centre of power. Of course, the question today is what is Mr Gaspari's political debt to those centres of power that they had put in place at that time. I must say that I appreciate Mr Gaspari, he is an excellent expert and I want to be very neutral. However - because I am running out of time - if Mr Gaspari were here today, I would ask him what his political debt is today. In view of this document of the Analytical Research Centre, where we absolutely cannot doubt that there have been any deeper reasons, some deeper political fact that it has been wanted in some circles, and I am not saying that this is Mr Gaspari, to achieve that Slovenia would not take over the euro. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And I need to give you an example of Greece. We cannot magnify the Greek case, but the fact is that the Greeks even falsified the balance sheets [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u75	Time's up. Thank you very much. Mr Pece has the floor to prepare Mr Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u76	Your Honors are here! I am aware, however, that the evaluation of the speech or the thoughts of other Members is ungrateful, but at least I can say with certainty that today's debate does not seem to be a quality, that it is a good part of the instigation and, above all, of the political accounting. Personally, I think it would be much wiser if we talked today about past moves in the context of the Bank of Slovenia and, last but not least, all the functions that the candidate has performed before this function. Mr Gaspari was a finance minister in our country, for whom, at least within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have stated 'and proved', he stressed and proved that he had said one thing, and later, in the context of the implementation of his words, of course, he did a completely different one. But since it is not a small matter, but it is a sale of the banking system, we have also justified and tried to explain to you and convince you that the person mentioned does not trust in the future privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor; and, of course, we have also denied him support. However, in the course of the rest of the time, I would just like to talk about a flawed role or a deficit role or an understanding of the role of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in at least two areas in the past in his work. We estimate that the starting point for support or non-support is exclusively in its work, if it has already been in this job. First of all, we all know that there is a lack of internal control system within the framework of the New Ljubljana Bank and that infamous system which has completely failed. What was the control unit like back then? Nothing. And something like that, of course, you're the governor of the past, you shouldn't afford it. Secondly, what I would like to point out is, of course, the events in 2007 – this year. As you probably know, economic operators who trade coins have a 4% commission on the basis of the law of the daily repurchase, weekly or any other 4% commission. 4% commission means that in the event of a 25-fold exchange, of course, the State, or rather, in the agreement of the Bank of Slovenia, is given a complete monetary unit to commercial banks. [[Comrade Jerovšek, I would ask if you were so cultural and listen. Thank you.]] So, 4% commission for change of coins. Ladies and gentlemen, when an indignant call came to the Slovenian National Party some time ago to the people who have to pay this tax, of course we found out what Banka Slovenije is planning to do to prevent such a matter. The answer was very simple. Banka Slovenije will talk to commercial banks and try to lower 4% of the tax. This commission is tax. Excuse me, this response from the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is not in place. The European countries do not have, do not know this commission, nor do they know it in 4%, not in 5%, but it is simply not. And this kind of work already in 2007 also tells us that the so-called administrative policy of the Bank of Slovenia will continue. And Banka Slovenije, irrespective of its conservative role, is expected to be accompanied by an elastic policy that reflects credit ratings for citizens and citizens, according to our assessment. Thirdly, in my opinion, according to my own assessment, the most important area is the upcoming privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. We are afraid that the story will repeat with a positive issue and agreement to obtain a qualified share in the sale of New Credit Bank Maribor. And in this place, I think that a Member who has something to do with privatisation being done in a quality way, and in the interests of our country in particular, could argue that qualified shares are not obtained by foreigners who do not deposit basic accounts with their home country, i.e. the Republic of Slovenia. From this title, we only continue to confirm the words spoken in the context of the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups - Slovenian national parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs Irgle has the word, and then the mags should be prepared. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not support myself the President's proposal to re-elect Mitja Gaspari as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course, Mr Gaspari is not in a position to challenge his expertise, especially at moments of importance for Slovenia, but this is why it is even more surprising that Mr Gaspari or Banka Slovenije has forwarded certain documents, which were also under a secret label, to the Central European Bank. I must say that we have spoken to Mr Gaspari twice, I think, also in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group; and I must say that I was quite surprised at his way of speaking and his attitude. As long as the Minister of Finance was present, Mr Gaspari was still well enough. Later, when we also asked him about these matters, which were last leaked to the public, Mr Gaspari was no longer acting as he was in such an important position as the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In the past, Mr Gaspari was also present in certain famous affairs, if we look only at the Optimism affair, where Mr Gaspari, as the current finance minister at the interpolation that the Slovenian People's Party then filed against him, promised to make sure that the already approved budget money for Optimism will be returned to the budget by the end of 1994. Of course, this has not yet happened. And we can also conclude from this that Mr Gaspari is obviously not the man of the word, although he is a great expert who is also valuable in Europe. It may not be too much to point out that in this affair it was important that Mr Slejko, the owner of Optimism, was a politically influential member of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia at the time. In this company, he also started his political career as a long-standing LDS official, Mr Bogdan Biščak. So, here we have some connections, which certainly do not belong in the professional part of Mr Gaspari, but mainly in a political one that may be at some point also controversial, and as Mrs Representative in the Cabinet of the President of the State said in a presentation that Mr Gaspari is not really a man for all time. Even for all these reasons, I will not support him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Sayovic, then it's Mrs. Jeraiev's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! In the introduction, let me immediately say that the proposal by the President of the State, Dr Janez Drnovska, has been corrected, okay, to contain all the criticisms of the judgment, even more so, we could say that Mr President has put Gaspari's image on the table. We have heard everything in these debates today, even in the previous debate, that Mr Gaspari was twice at a meeting at the parliamentary club and that the debate with him was purely correct, as we had heard earlier as the main message to Professor Grad that the President had not consulted the parliamentary groups. In this case, a double step has been taken. What must be presented, Mr President of the State, was presented by the candidate and I am sure that most Members were satisfied with his decision and presentation in every way. And when we heard the debates before, even from ancient Greece, I'm going to have this debate, because the time is enough, I've seen some good 100 years ago, and we've dealt with it more than once. So says our great poet, whom we celebrate this week: Appel the image to the view, For he loves the truth more than the praise. behind the hidden always listens to what yawns It's stupid what he's making of her. It shall be stopped in front of it by the hooves of a shoe; For he examines the pitcher of the shoe, The ramen, to me, that there is not enough. Which is what he's trying to make clear, which is what he's going to fix. When the next day comes the hoofing man again, Instead of going a little bit further, Because the shoes are hit, the sword goes off. And along with the very old Poetry is a photograph that is very eloquent. A lot of it hangs the head. To continue my debate on what was heard today, I am particularly interested in what they say about this governor, who is not the governor of Members, but the governor of all Slovenians, the Slovenian public. One of the polls in today's Finances says whether Members should vote in favour of Gaspari's re-election tomorrow, says yesterday's poll that 78% of the Slovenian public is very much in favour of and supported by what has been put on display. I am convinced that in these public statements and opinions, especially in the light of the elections, we are not immune to public opinion either. There was also an interesting debate about the governor's salary and so on. I promise you from this city that anyone who works in these functions in the future has my voice and my support in advance because of budgetary problems. Today, however, I will be happy to support Mr Magi. Gasparia, especially because it is professional, honest, realistic and, above all, impartial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u81	Thank you very much, even for the "cheese" stake. Meanwhile, Mr Juban has arrived, so I give my word to Mr Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice hello to you all! What is happening to me today is unusual, incomprehensible, impossible for me not to develop a story forward in the direction of dishonesty and so on. There had to be a document that discredits Gaspari, which we found that he did not leave the house, although some or many people here today continue to tell you how he went to Europe, how he went to the Central Bank and so on. It means we're moving on with the untruths. And speaking of everything else, the document was the reason or aid in discrediting him or not choosing him. The last osmia they were was extremely interesting and unusual. The Minister of Finance, who with all four supports and honors the candidate, eventually comes into some strange situation where he has to say he won't support it, because there's another candidate who's more ours than yours. Next, another government representative, Mr Šuštersič, speaks about the fact that the independent institution of Banka Slovenije should first show the Government of the Republic of Slovenia any document it deals with, even though it has not left the house. And this is the reason that this document, probably because of order in the house also had the head of Banka Slovenije and did not leave the house, is the reason that Gasparija is not confirmed. Although it didn't happen. Then that simple people understand, develop the story in various ways, and compare what is required today or what is done in this policy. I have one such comparison: Slovenia is heterogeneous and architects with their statistics for various objects in various parts of Slovenia must organize different situations; the western part of Slovenia is shaken, the eastern part is not, and we are appropriately building houses. But if in the eastern part of Slovenia with regard to the changed weather conditions that even affect geology, we tried to develop statistics to see how much more expensive a house would be if we built it in the eastern part of Slovenia even for earthquake safety, there would be politics and the government would say, no, but you will not do that before you ask us. It's similar here. Something impossible, unusual, that even by any methodology that exists, you cannot foresee another situation, if it happens in an extreme case, we all count and we want to avoid cutting ourselves off, discrediting a person who had purely good intentions. And I am counting, despite all that, today in this house, which we have called strangely, there are so many sovereign Members who will vote in their conscience and that we will, in spite of everything, confirm Mitja Gaspari, Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Jeraeva has the word and then Mrs Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. The Governor of Banka Slovenije Mitja Gaspari said at the conference at the reception of the euro in Ljubljana on 15 January 2007: "I am sure that we see the introduction of the euro as a historic challenge and also as an opportunity. An opportunity that highlights our country's ability to develop into a stable economic and financial environment. The opportunity to improve its opportunities for even faster development and the achievement of the most advanced members of the euro area." It would be difficult for the Governor of Banka Slovenije to give such a speech or this would probably be less optimistic if he took seriously the information he had been provided in his analytical and research sector. On the basis of their research, an official document was produced Projection of Public Finances with the worst possible scenario, in which he apparently did not believe. That is also how he said at the press conference that it is very unlikely that this could happen at all. The results and forecasts were significantly different from all other analyses carried out by the institutions in the Republic of Slovenia which carry out comparisons, research and prepare projections for the future. Despite the fact that Banka Slovenije is an independent institution, we would expect that they have already come up with such drastic forecasts and results that they would at least try to compare them. So the data they received in Banka Slovenije with the data that the Ministry of Finance has. At the same time, the Governor should seriously ask who is right here, what is wrong with us getting so different data, and perhaps suggest a meeting of experts from the Ministry of Finance and experts from the Bank of Slovenia. This happened in December last year, but not because the Governor suggested it, but because the Minister of Finance was informed that a document containing significantly worse data than the Government had in Banka Slovenije. The data that this was to be sent to the Central European Bank, the Governor also stated to our parliamentary group and to the media that certain things had been sent to the European Bank and that it was not true what my predecessor had said that nothing had been sent. Otherwise, the Governor did not provide the right data for the media, he said that certain tables and data from the projection were sent to us. The confrontation really happened, but as I said, because the Minister of Finance proposed it, and they compared the data of analysts from the Bank of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance. Under this projection, the Governor of Banka Slovenije signed such drastic data and thus confirmed that it was behind it and that, in his opinion, they apparently held on to it, if it was an official document, regardless of the fact that it had a confidential document, it was a document of Banka Slovenije. And since I think that in the case described, the Governor should have acted differently, I also said how, I will not support him in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! One of the first panellists today said that everything has been decided today. I speak because I believe that everything is not yet decided. Each of us will decide in the privacy of the voting room, and this decision will not only have a political but also an ethical dimension. Although I think the Gaspari is an excellent candidate, I would have no objection to the fact that a group of Members and Members, when they received the proposal, saw it, examined it, said they did not intend to support it for these or those reasons, political or any other. True, everyone has this right and has the right to say it, and it is also, as Charles De Gaulle said, that irreplaceable people are only in the cemetery. However, if the positions are changed on the basis of the events being staged, by means of certain data, by replacing documents and similar matters, changing the course of events and changing at once a positive or neutral position into a negative one and thus accusing the candidate of working against the interests of the State, of course this is not only politically stupid and is not politically wise, but it is also unethical and the price that the candidate may pay for a short and long period of time may be high. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that in these arguments, when new arguments are being made against why not support candidate Gaspari, it sometimes disturbs me eslicitally, but sometimes implicitly deny the autonomy of professional and analytical work in and out of state institutions, such as the Bank of Slovenia, if you want other institutions in and outside the Government. I must say that if we achieve this, that analysts and analysts in various services will work with a mental barrier in their heads, that they will not have the full freedom, that their freedom will be limited only by their methodology and scientific expertise, that if we do not have this freedom, we will get the modified, favorite messages, they will tell us something that is not entirely true, and we will make a decision based on it and we will drive the country into a circle of lies and non-reality, and also of course politicians and citizens and citizens. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to remember, however, the 1970s, the years of lead, when there was somehow a belief that there was no conflict in the country of harmony, united work, self-government, and conflict, all directed towards a beautiful future. Some sociologists have found that social inequalities exist in society, social conflicts, that there is a great difference between real participation in power and actual participation and so on. And then we got exactly that question, as one of our colleagues put it, in front of me, why they're doing it. What are the hidden purposes, what do they want with it? No, they did not ask why reality is different from what we proclaim, rather than normative, but they asked what evil purposes they serve. And that was the wrong thing and, of course, they insinuated and crushed this freedom, they tried to suppress it -- they didn't -- and of course they led the matter into a circle that we know how it got out. That is why I warn you, you appreciate freedom and in Slovenia this freedom has been fought since the mid-1980s, since the mid-1980s. If you abolish this freedom, you will do far worse things than simply not elect candidate Gaspari. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] I'd say two more things. Firstly, some arguments are ridiculous: Gasparija will not be elected because six years ago we did not elect Arhar. Please. Arhar was elected at least once, elected twice explicitly or under the rule of the LDS or by the vote of the LDS. And secondly, Optimism, a great firm. True, the guarantee fell, but the sale of this company was a state. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] paid in full. [[...]] So these arguments are no longer on the empirical level. Once again, think about it, it's not just politics and Gaspari, it's a lot more. And I hope it's not all decided yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u88	Your Honor! As it has been repeatedly pointed out today that Mr Gaspari is the most deserving of taking over the euro in our country, let me say my opinion on who I think is most deserving of Slovenia taking over the euro as its currency. It is necessary to return slightly in the time of the end of the 1990s when Slovenia succeeded in reducing persistent inflation to below 10%. However, until 2002, we have not been able to lower inflation more radically. Then the economists Koliceli, Jazbec, Masten published a resounding study and directly pointed out the inadequate management of the exchange rate policy and measures taken by the Bank of Slovenia to reduce inflation. They noted that the policy of the rolling tolar exchange rate, which was designed to protect exporters and sterilisation or the excessive flow of foreign exchange, was a central reason for maintaining high inflation. For this reason, the Slovenian Democratic Party in the opposition, i.e. the Slovenian Coalition, also supported Boštjan Jazbec as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia has actually changed the management of the exchange rate policy under the control of the current world and thereby the instruments for curbing inflation. A pre-accession economic programme and convergence programme to meet the Maastricht criteria or to implement the Euro-Stability Pact were also prepared on these theoretical foundations. It is interesting that the Bank of Slovenia, under the leadership of the current Governor, Mitja Gaspari, does not mention or disclose in its publications the reasons for the important conversion in the conduct of the exchange rate policy, which is based on the knowledge of these economists. Your Honor! I believe that Mr Gaspari is unjustifiably attributing practically all the credit for taking over the euro. I am convinced that the Bank of Slovenia would continue the exchange rate policy and measures imposed by Mr Gaspari, which would have resulted in the fact that the euro in Slovenia would not have been taken for a long time without economists Koliceli, Jazbec and Masten proving that the policy of Mr Gaspari is wrong. In addition, I also acknowledge Mr Gaspari's role in the Optimism affair, the concealment of the public financial deficit between 1997 and 2000 and the bankruptcy of the food and credit services. Here in particular, I would like to point out that, at the expense of the poor and, in my opinion, the irresponsible or reckless work of Mr Gaspari, too, has left many Slovenians and Slovenians who have saved in the HKS. I will therefore radically consider how I will vote because Mr Gaspari, with his work so far, has in no way convinced me that a candidate who is independent, at least in my opinion, is clearly politically profiled in a party to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and, as such, cannot lead this institution, as it has been so far, as an independent supervisor of the financial system. And the last sentence. I will never understand that only one who is directly or indirectly linked to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia or to the Social Democrats is an excellent staff. This, however, can be said because it has always been stressed in the past that if Slovenia does not lead the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, Slovenia and Slovenia are not doing well. As we can see, our citizens and citizens are writing much better than ever before: higher economic growth, more employees, fewer unemployed and could still be listed. So the belief that someone is the best and irreplaceable has no real basis, according to my assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca. She's not here. Mr. Rugelj. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want too much. I think there's been a lot of talk about Mr Gaspari today. As far as an independent proposal is concerned, when everyone points it out like that, I think it was completely irrelevant. We all know who Mr Gaspari is, even though today you really don't know which of the Members is still in the LDS, but still. I don't understand exactly who they are today or why they're defending him. I could only read this introduction, which was read in 1994 by Mr Janez Podobnik for interpretation to Mr Gaspari as Minister of Finance. I think that the Governor of Banka Slovenije could maintain the same qualities as the Minister of Finance. I will therefore read this: "Dear Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! On behalf of the applicants, I would like to briefly explain the interpretation, but I would be very pleased if Mr President of the Government were to do so. The essential purpose of the proposals for interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for Finance, Mr Mag. Gasparia, in view of his objective responsibility when he signed or approved a guarantee in a company to which both he and the Government were warned that certain irregularities in operation, thus acting contrary to the fundamental principle of Roman law: to act as a good master. Both the government and every minister we trust to manage taxpayers' money must act as a good master." It's a fundamental observation. Such an observation could probably be maintained today when we are collecting a candidate for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course then Mr Gaspari somehow replied that the debt of Optimizem d.o.o. recovered by acquiring and cashing out the mortgage on the company’s assets in the opposite, which is in the event of failure, he promised his resignation. The truth was like that. Because Optimizem d.o.o. Mr Gaspari did not have the property to secure the State's guarantee, he wanted to enforce the mortgage on Kovind d.o.o.'s assets. The unit where Vladimir Slejko had a 60% equity share totaling 40% of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Development. Gaspari promised to repay the guarantee within a few months. He also ordered the possibility of payment under the burden of Hmezad Bank Žalec. His promise soon proved to be unworthy. Mortgage at the property of Kovind d.o.o. As Bank Koper has already entered before the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Koper actually paid in 1998 from an assets worth SIT 240 million, mag. In spite of the complaints made in the first instance and the higher court, Gaspari was expected to remain empty. In the meantime, Hmezad banka has ceased to exist, taken over by Bank Celje. Our taxpayers have also left their hands empty. This is one of those things that I would say was not exactly in terms of good money management, especially not because Mr Gaspari was specifically warned by SDK about what was going on with this company. But he still signed it, probably with a certain consciousness. Then I have already mentioned the budget deficit, in fact the presentation of the budget deficit, would not be further deepened now, but perhaps there is something else to say about the Bank of Slovenia's independence in the past. In the past, I pulled the stats out of the way as wages, inflation, and exchange rates grew. We were the ones where the wages grew in euros, in stamps, all alive, changing the course stood, we stopped inflation with the exchange rate. This is the independence of the bank, thereby damaging our economy and all those people who are still employed today - whether they were, many have also lost their jobs because of this - even our agriculture has been damaged, this has been the result of the limitation of inflation, which could also be limited in a different way, a more appropriate way. Because of all this, I personally believe that Mr. Gaspari [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u92	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We live at a time when we have a market economy and a consumer paradise and a multilateral system, some calling it a political hell. And this thing that is happening here today in the National Assembly is a classic political account with one of Slovenia's financial independents, with the goal of subordinated Banka Slovenije. Dear colleagues and colleagues, only a blind man would not see the way the current ruling coalition subordinated the media, let's take work, let's take RTV, how it subordinated some companies, how it subjugated even the research institutions, even you, haven't been on the road for long while we were talking. And how she was driven by the full sails of the wind by a human tsunami over certain people who were on their way. Colleagues and colleagues, I've been in politics too long to know how to cut sheep. This case is a typical example of abuse, of launching an affair, to politically eliminate a man who enjoyed great reputation, who otherwise could not have disputed that he had been politically successful and politically correct. He was a minister, he was a governor, and he didn't have a big affair or anything; more than that, he was nailed to the stars. The moment he should be elected, of course, this coalition sees someone else in this place. Because it's dangerous to have a very educated man in this place who's awake, who's taking a stand, better to have some stoner who's nodding at all what the government or the finance minister is going to say, and who's going to somehow seem to give the impression that the government is super-successful, which has been happening lately. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we get here, I speak symbolically, from staying in non-existence, and when we get to Osiris, it always has a weight. And there's good work on this scale, and there's bad work on this scale. And if there will be one of the judges who will only talk about bad deeds, Osiris will see what good he has done, and he who weighs himself has no right to say there, he will, of course, let him go. If I were to be a professor, a respected colleague and a colleague, so that I could throw every student if he couldn't use Roll's saying, I'd have a britoff cemetery. I wouldn't feel so good as a man. And in these things, as we do now, we do what we do, I think that politically speaking and on the part of humanity, it is this conduct, forgive me, shamefully for the National Assembly, what we are doing now and what we have done in Kviaz, to the man I personally respect. Goldilocks of manure pour on him, not nice. He can't defend himself here. What will be the assessment if it is not accepted, respected colleagues and colleagues, if it does not receive a mandate? This will, in my opinion, be very bad for the finances of Slovenia, because to someone who is qualified, we have given up. But what will people in Europe say about us, what will those who were in Cankar's home, such as Jean Claude Trichet, Joaquin Almunia, Jose Manuel Barroso, Romano Prodi, Robert Fico, Costas Karamanlis and others, when listening to Janez Janša, thank all previous presidents and members of Slovenian governments, especially the finance minister, the Member of the Slovenian Parliament, the Governor and the member of the Bank of Slovenia for timely and correct decisions on a challenging path to the euro. Now his client is tearing him down here and telling him how shitty he was. I mean, this really isn't right. I know that where politics and money are, there are no friends, no mercy or compassion. When we, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, at least some of us tried to put animals on the pedestal of the subject before the day we treated them, that they had no rights against us, but nothing like that, it seems to me that we are doing something now. Dr. Gaspari was good as a minister, there's no way to defend himself here. There was one, if I say, one of the founders of finance. [[...]] [[Sound for the end of the debate.]] And to pour it with as much manure as we hear here today, it doesn't seem moral in our positions as parliamentarians and when we're still looking for jobs and it's gonna be because of us. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I won't waste any more of your time because there's nothing to argue about because there's been nothing new said. All of this has already been chewed up several times, and so once again, to object to the claim that secret documents have been sent, what has been bad in the past, is a shame. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that for each of us, who are political competitors or your opponents, there are lists of accusations that have never been proven to be taken, when there is opportunity and read them; and you have done so today. Two things were new: one that Mr Gaspari considers himself only deserving and that we think he is irreplaceable. None of them are true. And there was no talking about it at all. And the third thing, more of a joke, I hope at some point he was being ugly. I'll ask my respectable colleague in person on vacation what kind of misbehavior it is that prevents him from being elected governor. Well, I'm not gonna kill anymore, but I'd say that's another one. The actions we have today in Parliament, including the conclusion, will not discredit Mr Gaspari, but may discredit us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u96	Thank you very much. A well-respected choir. We recently celebrated Slovenia's entry into the euro area. The process of entering the monetary union was long and difficult. The Bank of Slovenia has also played an important role on this path under the leadership of the Governor of Mag. Mitya Gaspari. A significant part of the credit for the successful passage and final takeover of the euro goes to Banka Slovenije and its governor. For what Mr Mag has done in this regard. Gaspari in the successful management of the central bank, we can only congratulate Governor Mitji Gaspari. Of course, this part of the working leave for the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia is not in itself sufficient to be only mag on this basis. Gaspari is the only suitable candidate for the Governor of Banka Slovenije. I cannot agree with the thesis that only Mitja Gaspari is capable of running the Bank of Slovenia. He's the only one who's qualified enough for this function. No, no, no. No one is carefree, not even Mitja Gaspari. And even if that were true, and we all know that it is not, we should look for someone who will be qualified for this job, because if we had only one person who can lead an important institution, then this will necessarily lead to disaster. Experience in various cases teaches us to hold it. We once had the only possible leader of Titus, and after his departure we found ourselves in the deepest abyss. The Serbs had in the near past the only "driver" of Milosevic and landed in a bloody Balkan pot. Today, the Cubans are faced with decent, hopeless consequences when they leave the irreplaceable "elkomandante". Well, with that indelible conclusion, we won't get far. Also, Mitja Gaspari’s life and work opus is not only a period of the last two or three years, but has long been active in this same or similar function. And in these times, there are also some shadows about Mr Gaspari. We all remember the inappropriate role which then proved to be harmful in the event of the liquidation of the Triglav Bank. Then the sad fate of the nutritional credit services and, in particular, the Feeding and Credit Service of Sicure and, as a result, the financial breakdown of many savers are likely to be all alive in memory. And Banka Slovenije, led by Mitja Gaspari, did not prevent this sad fate, even though it could and should be prevented. A similar story where Banka Slovenije did not play an appropriate supervisory role is the SIB affair of the Bank of Slovenia, where the Bank of Slovenia even issued a decision on the agreement to purchase this bank by the public city company Energetica from Ljubljana. There was also talk about Optimism, about Optimism, not to mention everyone. There's probably something else going on. The latest discovery on the secret document of Banka Slovenije's analytical service, which contained a completely untrue assessment of the financial situation of Slovenia in the years to come, and given the fact that this document was sent to the headquarters of the European Central Bank in Frankfurt, shows the darkness of the stain caused by the same Bank of Slovenia, whether or not the Governor was personally aware of it. The fact is that someone inside the Bank of Slovenia wanted such a completely unreal document, or with inconvenient data on this document, indicating the alarming state of public finances, which is expected to take several years in Slovenia, which is why this person certainly wanted to create a poor impression of Slovenia and the current Slovenian Government in foreign and European institutions. And the Governor of the Bank, from which such malicious information is thus leaked, is certainly responsible for this and such conduct of his employees from the Bank of Slovenia's analytical services certainly cannot be honored. No one is insinuating inequity to Mr Gaspari, and no objective Mr Gaspari can be referred to as a politically independent expert. Mr Gaspari is certainly an expert, but he is not politically independent, because a man who can run twice on a political party's list at the national elections, who is elected Member of the National Assembly, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which the political party also appoints and appoints as Minister, including through it as Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, is not politically independent. That's why I'm having second thoughts about the appointment of gentlemen. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u98	Today's debate shows that, like the leader mentioned in the past, the leader of the ruling coalition in Slovenia does not want an independent institution. Independence is understood and respected and not conditioned. And we will obviously not be able to present this to our colleagues on the other hand in today's debate. This is precisely why Mr President of the Republic has proposed a very suitable, professional and upright man. I'll back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. In my opening presentation, as a representative of the Group of Members, I made some statements which were written and published during this long period of political action by Mr Gaspari and, last but not least, in six years, the independent and professional functioning of Mr Gaspari. In fact, I would expect someone to deal with these claims that have been made and that are even in the archives of the National Assembly, but no one has touched it, no one has said that this is not true. And yet these things hold everything. They keep their statements regarding the special law on bank ownership, and the banks have passed the law, argues that the law on the ownership of insurance companies has not been submitted in time and that many errors have been made during this period, including a lot of consensus. And your colleague, Rop, later as a finance minister, was correcting all these mistakes that came from the time of the former finance minister. My friend Rob used to do that. He brought this story of insurance companies in his mandate as finance minister to the end or to this situation, as is now the case with equity. As regards the business, for example, with public finances and these uncoordinated budgetary periods on the revenue and expenditure side, this part has also begun to be regulated and rectified during the period when your fellow Member of Parliament was the Minister of Finance. Until then, we have always had longer periods of income and shorter spending periods and in the meantime a very distorted picture of the public financial deficit. That is why I have also said that I personally do not appreciate that during this period of discussions with the candidate, which has also been shown today by the debate in the National Assembly, that there are no arguments for a change of attitude, not for me personally and not for colleagues from the parliamentary group. The things that have been said, stand, are as they were recorded, as they were found, these cannot be denied. And even later events were just like I said. It is, however, the fact that the candidate is proposed by the President of the State at his discretion. Also, the way he chooses to obtain sufficient support for the candidate is his, and he decides to do so. Members of the parliamentary groups who decide to do so may suggest this to him. However, I would like to say that we are not deciding on the basis of, I do not know of any aversion to the candidate or anything else, we are deciding on the basis of the arguments that we have also cited most in the position of the Group of Members. It is said, on the basis of the past work of the candidate in the ministerial and governoral functions and on the basis of everything he said in his presentation and the answers to the questions he had in the parliamentary group. And, as a matter of fact, on that basis, we have made our decision, and I will decide for myself not to support the candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the proposer, Mrs. Tovornikova, a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, not because of himself, but because of a few decades of the dead German novelist and philosopher Thomas Mann, one of the deputies attributed him to me. My sentence continued. Thomas Mann said, and I quoted him, mag. Mitja Gaspari is not a man for all time, but he is a man who can be trusted and trusted by the President of the Republic of Slovenia. And I asked you to show him that trust, too. I would not have answered, but this is a temple where words and thoughts are extremely important, and a thought that is not expressed in all words is often infertile, and words that do not express whole thoughts can sometimes be dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic for the election of the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the appointment of the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia on the election or appointment of the National Assembly, the Council shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already been proposed by the parliamentary groups to propose proposals for the members of the committee leading the vote. This is Franc Jazbec, Rudolf Mogue, Aurelio Juri and Martin Mikolitch. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes shall be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, each proposed candidate shall be elected or appointed, if voted for by a majority of all Members and Members, that shall be 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members of the Commission, who will assist me in voting, please report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 12.55 p.m. and will last until 13.10. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 1:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the adjournment of the 35.a. point - this is with the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 2 February 2007. 87 ballots were distributed. There were 87 votes cast, 8 votes invalid, 79 votes valid, 71 votes in favour, 8 votes against. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Prof. Franc City. Please, Professor Dr. McKinley. Franc Grad, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u105	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and work with all my strength for constitutionality and legality and for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I thank all Members and Members for their great trust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u106	We move on the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 2 February 2007. 87 ballots were distributed. There were 87 votes in favour, 3 votes in favour, 43 votes against 41. Based on the outcome of the vote, mags. Mitja Gaspari was not appointed Governor of the Bank of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. Since the candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, we will immediately inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 37(6) of the Bank of Slovenia Act. We are moving on to a hearing on the proposals for decisions on election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice presented 13 proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts: 7 District Judges, District Judges and District Judges at the District Court in Koper, Ljubljana, Slovenia Gradec, Postojna, Celje and Žalec; two District Judges and two District Judges at the District Court in Ljubljana and Celje and the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Does the representative of the Council of Justice want a word? [[He's not here.]] The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I am voting on the motion for the election of Ms Martine Franca Richtar to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nadje Marolt to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 1. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Dr Martine Šetinc Tekavac to the court seat of the District Court at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Barbara Corderl to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Romane Krauberger Kotnik to the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Darje Morelj to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Postojna. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Dragan Trivic as judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mirjana Gontarev to the judicial seat of the District Court in Koper. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Martin Jančar to the judge's seat at the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Natalija Drew Mijošek to the District Court in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Maša Ostruh to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Tayka Golob to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Esthere Gologranc of the Court of Justice at the District Court in Žalec. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the State Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Josip Bajc to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Mr. Bajc, have you been reported? No, no, no. There are no other panellists. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Dr Rafael Cian, the duty of a member and the appointment of Dr Bojan Tičar as a member of the National Election Commission. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for whom 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] It notes that the proposed decision is not adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of a president and two members of the Governing Board of the Fund for the Financing, Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Mag. Franc Znidaršič - cancels. Franz Sušnik too. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Here you go. He's quitting. Mr. Rugelj. He's quitting. Mr. Jerovšek, too. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of Dr. Romane Jordan Cizelj as President and Mr. Jožet Cerleta and Dr. Dragan Kesic as a member of the Management Board of the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 67 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the report of the Parliamentary-Electorial Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the notification of the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, the external departments of Kočev for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The announcement was forwarded to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, the external department in Kočev. The notification was addressed by the Commission’s mandate-holder as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "Decision: National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Public Prosecutor in Ljubljana, the external department in Kočev, support. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. KT/0/116/05-BŠ/LD of 30.11.2006 for the purpose of examining a criminal complaint concerning the suspicion of a criminal offence, of a misdemeanour in service under Article 262 of the Criminal Law of the Republic of Slovenia, does not recognise the immunity of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr Janko Webr and allow the initiation of criminal proceedings. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the report of the Parliamentary-Electorial Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the notification of the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The notice was forwarded to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana for consideration of the meeting. The notification was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent-work body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, there is no debate on immunity matters, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "Decision: National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 83 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the request of the District Attorney-General in Ljubljana, support. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. KT1-5466/06-BU-MŠ of 22.12.2006 for the criminal offence of concealing under Article 221/1 and 3 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Slovenia does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Trimenite and allow the initiation of criminal proceedings. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for foreign policy. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the New Slovenia parliamentary group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Joseph Horvat from the post of Vice-President and the appointment of mags. Mr Janez Drobnič, Vice-President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Foreign Policy. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against 1 [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport. The draft decision was tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge of Mr Frantz Kangler, President and appointment of Mr Josip Bajc as Chairman of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Transport. We're voting. 71 Members and Members were present, 69 of them voted against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We're moving to 14. It's for a re-decision on the Religious Freedom Act. At its 18th extraordinary meeting on 22 December 2006, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-judge the Religious Freedom Act before declaring the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State; the request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the working body of the mother. [[...]] I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report. Here you go. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar, please present the committee report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at its first meeting, proposed that the National Assembly of the Law on Religious Freedom be re-adopted at its first meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill of reasons for the opinion. Dr. Drago Chapar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u109	Dear Members and Members! The current Law on the Legal Status of Religious Communities, adopted in 1976, is urgently to be replaced by a modern law consistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The current law is outdated and weak, as it does not regulate certain fundamental areas, the register of religious communities, the procedure of criteria and the conditions of registration and financing, is not in line with the Constitution, it speaks of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, the privacy of religion, the punishment of religious communities that would operate without being declared, the interference with the award of sacraments of religious communities. The last additions were adopted before the adoption of the Constitution. The Constitutional Law implementing the 1991 Constitution provides that rules which do not comply with the Constitution must be aligned with it by the end of 1993. By adopting or re-confirming this law, honourable Members and Members, the Republic of Slovenia will, however, implement this provision of the Constitutional Law with delay. This area has been regulated by the modern principles and constitutions of the transition countries, which are EU members, as well as by most other transition countries, Croatia 2002, Bosnia and Herzegovina 2004, Macedonia 1997, Serbia 2006, Belarus 2002, Russia 1997, and then in 2000. The adoption of the law will meet the requirement of the Ombudsman, who has repeatedly pointed out the issue and identified the need for a new law. The 2005 Annual Report states: "The need for a law to regulate open issues of religious freedom and the position of religious communities is evident." The law regulates the way religious freedom is guaranteed and exercised, lays down the register and the criteria, conditions and procedure for the registration of religious communities and the rights of registered churches and other religious communities and their members. The right to aid for the payment of social security contributions is governed by transparency and quantitatively comparable to the current level, as the law sets 21.86% of the base slightly below 23.86% in 1992, and slightly more than 15.94% now. The assessment of the necessary resources from one year ago, which is in the marriage material, is now lower. The number of persons who were 1,043 in January 2006 decreased to 1,009 in January and is likely to continue to fall. In 2006, 338,8 million tolars were paid for contributions to priests from the budget. If the proposed law were in force in 2006, the payment would amount to EUR 464.6 million, which is 125.8 million more than the actual payment, but 42.5 million less than it would have been on the same basis and the share covered by the State in 1992; therefore, we are somewhere in the middle. Solutions were created in dialogue with religious communities and the support of law among religious communities is strong. For the reasons stated by the President of the State Council in explanation of the request for the National Assembly to rule again on the Law on Religious Freedom, the Government replied in writing and rejected the reasons. You've received an answer from the Members. It specifically states that the Government and the National Assembly by law have not exceeded the framework of the Constitution and, in particular, as stated by the President of the State Council, have not exceeded the constitutional provisions that separate the Church from the State and command the equality of religious communities. On this subject, the Ombudsman wrote in his 2005 annual report: "The principle of separation between the State and the religious communities is laid down in the Constitution only at the principal level and its importance and content are yet to be formed." The solutions offered by law are a matter of genuine long-term consensus among several successive governments. The regulation of this area has matured and represents an important step forward in the area of religious freedom, as it brings transparency and comprehensive regulation of relations and relations between the State and religious communities. The Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, in accordance with Article 148 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the law shall be supported by re-voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u110	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Dear Government Representative! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that it is time, in accordance with established standards at law level, to properly regulate the way religious freedom is exercised and the issues related to the free functioning of religious communities. That is why we will support the Law on Religious Freedom by re-voting. We will also support it because we believe that the law is in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, Slovenian constitutional practice and binding international acts and with solutions in constitutionally comparable European countries. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we have actively incorporated ourselves into a substantively formulated law aimed at remedying the shortcomings of the law, taking into account the principles, solutions and experiences of the European Community countries. We are convinced that the proposed law is based on a proper interpretation of the principle of religious freedom and the related principle of State separation from religious communities. However, since churches and religious communities are an important part of civil society and public life, it is therefore necessary for this area to be governed by a new law because of the breadth of its operation. Religious communities are expected to have, within the framework of today's democratic Slovenia, a recognised place, a role and responsibilities, as they do in most EU countries. This law is one of those laws whose provisions cannot be drawn up in such a way that everyone agrees with them, but they still need it. To ensure respect for human rights, including religious freedom, which builds on the foundations of democracy into mutual tolerance and understanding of people with different beliefs. We reject the State Council's claim that we voted in favour of a law that exceeded the framework of the Constitution and, in particular, the constitutional provisions that separate the Church from the State and command the equality of all religious communities. Furthermore, the law is designed primarily for the benefit of large religious communities such as the Roman Catholic Church and that all religious communities are not treated equally in it. On the contrary. The adoption of this Act finally met the requirement of the 1991 Constitutional Law for the introduction of the Constitution, which already provides in Article 1 that provisions which do not comply with the Constitution should be brought into line. And this was supposed to be coordinated by 1993, but they weren't. The current legislation was adopted 30 years ago in a different social order, obsolete and defective, since it neither regulates fundamental areas nor complies with the Constitution. The new law thus eliminates the absence of criteria, conditions and procedures for registration. The functioning of churches and religious communities is free, regardless of whether they register or operate without registration. Those religious communities that want to acquire legal personality and register must meet the conditions, but no one forces them to register. The right to aid for the payment of social security contributions is governed by the law in a transparent and quantitative manner compared to the level so far. All registered religious communities have the same rights. Social security contributions from the priests were financed by all governments after the independence and even decades before the independence, but the criticisms so far never came out. So far, as has been said, a 30 - year - old law gave only a few rights in 23 members of the religious community, and all else was prohibited. Thus, he neither defined the concept of the religious community nor regulated their fundamental legal position, such as a founding act defining at least the purpose of the religious community, the content of its activities, internal organisation, external representation, membership, financing and so on. The Law on Religious Freedom is a fundamental law that governs and protects constitutionally guaranteed religious freedom. Surely the law does not specify everything because it is impossible. Responsible implementation is expected, however, as the law brings transparency and comprehensive regulation of relations and relations between the State and religious communities. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia lays down the principle of State separation from religious communities, lays down the principle of equality of religious communities and the principle of their free operation. However, the separation of the country from the religious communities does not prevent Slovenia from having the same positive relations and forms of cooperation and joint efforts as it has with other civil society organisations in this respect. For all of this we support the solutions of the proposed law because they are in line with modern international and, in particular, European trends such as the principle of religious freedom, the prohibition of discrimination due to religion and equality of the church. It is the duty of the State to create conditions and opportunities for everyone with the right to a religion to live and develop it in a peaceful manner. In our parliamentary group we advocate the principle of equality of all churches and religious communities, and we patiently accept the visual diversity of all in Slovenia. We argue that the country should be globally neutral and as far away from religion as it should be from atheism. Religious freedom is a personal matter for each individual, and we are obliged to respect it as long as it is in accordance with the legal order of our country. However, we are also obliged to respect humanitarian, charitable, charitable, educational, cultural and educational work in the religious community, which is almost irrelevant to our society. The preparation and adoption of the Law on Religious Freedom has delayed for a very long time due to various political differences. For 30 years it is not too small, so today it is reasonable to expect that we will adopt the law in a spirit of dialogue, mutual respect and tolerance, regardless of the different viewpoints, and that we will strive not to be led by ideologically, but by the State's starting point, to act in a reasonable and wise manner, so that we do not see ourselves doing so in the future. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we are convinced that the Law on Religious Freedom is good and is an integral part of the mosaic in the positive modern formation of Slovenian society and the country, so we will once again support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will move the position of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u113	Dear Mr. President, esteemed colleagues, distinguished colleagues! The position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia regarding the Religious Freedom Act has not changed. It has also not changed because of all the things we have heard from both introsists, first of all from Mr Čepar, who again somehow brought the law before the National Assembly and, of course, also from his colleague Ljubeljska. I must say that with everything that has been told at least by the SDS, we can actually agree, there are things that are in principle very clear, including the reasons why this law needs to be introduced, why it needs to be changed, are clear, unequivocal and ethically acceptable. It's just that the law isn't like that. This is why we will not support him in any way in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The financing of religious communities also means paying social contributions, and this is already the State's involvement in religious communities, which, of course, you also opposed and even measured certain members and dedicated persons of this religious community because they received this financial assistance in the previous system, which, however, was a compensation for the loss of property to religious communities. It's not about whether it's big or not. Neither should a single cent go this way from the state treasury. The other thing, of course, is the maintenance of monuments, the caritative activity, education and so on, which is already well under way and has already been carried out in previous mandates. We are talking about all that some religious communities have acquired at this time. And there is so much that they can pay their own well - being and generously to their dedicated ones and pay their contributions. The problem is that now all taxpayers will pay for the dedicated persons of individual religious communities, and they will be divided into large and small ones. The adoption of this law is, of course, an omen malum for Slovenia. It is a matter of taking certain rights in this law, as proposed, even in the country. The State must not interfere in any way with the functioning of religious communities, but religious communities have free hands here, and these restrictions are not actually imposed. Of course, I think that hope remains, as some journalists have prepared even two versions for the result of today's vote. I don't talk to parliamentary groups, I talk to individuals. The previous marriage is really bad, but it was possible to live with it, and I think it could still be done. This law, as it is before us, has not been prepared in the way that Mr Chapar has spoken. Religious communities may have been involved, but this is a law that talks about the relationship between the State and religious communities, not just between religious communities, and the state, which has not been involved, has not been asked. Just so I don't hear anything else that Mr. Chapar is, say, a representative of the citizens. The point is that the law was being prepared very unilaterally, and that is what he knows. At this point, it would be better to reject him, to sit together, really together, and then to prepare a new law that would satisfy all the principles that Mr Ljubeljšek spoke to me about. We will therefore not support the law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And as we have already done, I also predict obstruction for today's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We also agree in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats that a new law is necessary after almost 30 years of the adoption of the current Law on Religious Communities. However, this does not mean any law, since even in the 15 years following the independence and modification of the foundations of the social and political system, without major problems, we have ensured both constitutional rights to freedom of conscience and religion, the principles of separation of state and religious communities and their equality, perhaps more than will be established by the new law. For this reason, it seems to us, whether it is of interest or not, to reiterate the arguments against the law, especially in order to reject the general phrases about how the law is advanced, established, how it provides modern solutions consistent with Europe and so on, what is all-powerful and vice versa, and what is important is the fact. And I'll talk about these facts. We therefore stress that the new legislation must be consistent with the respect for Slovenian constitutional rules and that we must also adapt to these solutions, the same as the Vatican Agreement, and not talk in general about whether it is something European or not. The international legal comparisons to which applicants like to refer can only be made in parallel with the assessment of constitutional solutions, since in many other countries they do not have or are not explicitly regulated by the Constitution. In accordance with our Constitution and the modern principles of the separation of state and religious communities, let religious communities deal primarily with spiritual matters, issues of faith. On these issues, they must be completely free and independent and their interference in a circle of issues of public and general interest should be regulated by the State. This is also the case in the Vatican Agreement, and there are different regimes in countries on these issues. Thus, the regulation of the situation of religious communities in the so-called mixed areas of action is essential for the assessment of the proposed law, in areas that are clearly public and general social issues in modern societies, on which the church also has its own interests and a wide-ranging role. It is a matter of various forms of social assistance, education and education, information activity, participation of representatives of believers in communities and bodies that decide on public matters for the conditions to be provided by the State for the exercise of these interests, and in particular for the material conditions and obligations to be provided by the State to religious communities. And on most of these issues, whether recognized or not, the Slovenian public is still divided today. Divided because it feels and accepts that the debate on the freer position of the church in public life is justified, but at the same time it knows and sees that the expectations of the church are and that the willingness of the majority of government parties, including in this law, is far above the aspirations of most citizens and citizens of Slovenia. This is especially true for State funding of religious content, for interference by the Roman Catholic Church in the public sphere, for the special benefits it has already acquired and expected with regard to the material situation, for its expectations to interfere in the sphere of education, education, evaluation of social issues, as well as in history, for the special rights to be guaranteed to the believers. Many citizens and citizens, including believers, feel that the religious communities, especially the Roman Catholic Church, in cooperation with and with the support of the government majority, are trying to introduce, under the pretext of redressing injustices, standards that will significantly exceed the majority's social consensus on understanding constitutional provisions, powers, positions, material financing of religious communities. It is also particularly aware that this strengthens the social climate in which every warning about the inadmissibility of certain proposals and the urgency of a serious debate that has not been possible so far is being stigmatised or even condemned. We argue that the law extends the forms of co-financing of the activities of religious communities by the State. It provides for the employment and payment of priests in state authorities and public institutions, provides for the payment of contributions to all priests of the largest churches and to the smaller ones of nothing, and foresees the expansion of the activities of religious communities in public services. In practice, this is already taking place in the field of age, social and child protection and in the military. If we take into account existing solutions in the area of financing of church schools, restoration of cultural monuments and information activities, as well as the new possibilities that will be provided to a large extent by the new tax laws, and especially almost in full and according to the most favourable criteria, the return of property by denationalisation, there is no doubt that the Slovenian Roman Catholic Church will have significantly improved material conditions not only for religious activity but also for the application in areas that could remain in the country's entire or larger domain, such as education, charismatic and, in particular, social statehood and so on. The State will therefore, in part, directly finance the religious activity of the church and disproportionately increase the funding of other activities. As regards the financial situation of the Roman Catholic Church, which is brought about by the new legislation, it should therefore be allowed to discuss at least two issues openly. Firstly, whether the solutions allowing the State to directly finance spiritual or religious activities are indeed in accordance with the Constitution, or whether the financing of religious activities of the church constitutes a violation of the constitutional principle of separation of countries and religious communities. Secondly, whether the disproportionate increase in funds allocated to the Church for activities of public interest and the responsibility of the social state go beyond the threshold when this activity of the church is no longer complementary in many ways but will become equivalent to that of the public services in these areas. In both cases, unfortunately, our answer is positive. The law goes beyond the framework that would still be constitutionally acceptable. This applies, for example, to all questions of the realization of religious freedom and religious belief in institutions where freedom of movement is enabled or hampered, such as the military, the police, such as hospitals, nursing homes, prisons, detention homes and the like. With regard to the military and the police, after the adoption of this law, the exercise of religious freedom will be regulated twice, twice in two laws and twice in different ways. This will apply to other activities of public authorities and public services. In most of these cases, it is not just a matter of creating spatial possibilities that individuals, believers, in any faith, may participate in religious rites under conditions of limited movement. We agree with that. However, the state does not allow this, but allows the payment of the clergy of the largest religious communities and makes it impossible for others who are not members of the largest or largest religious communities to have the same opportunity to express their faith. And such funding is the financing of spiritual or religious activities, not the creation of conditions for citizens to express their faith equally. Next, the law will not contribute to the application of the constitutional principle on equality of religious communities. Just the opposite. It will divide the religious communities into registered and unregistered, give them different rights and opportunities, both as regards the funding system, the impact in public life, the possibility of providing religious care, the direct co-financing of their activities by the State and so on. In this respect, the law explicitly favors only a few religious communities, especially the largest Roman Catholic Church. The proposed content of the definition of religious communities as universally beneficial organisations is unacceptable in the law. The law provides that the State will decide when and under what conditions an individual religious community is a universally beneficial organization. However, the condition or criterion for such a decision will be whether or not a specific religious community advocates spirituality and human dignity, to devise a stay in the field of religious life, and whether, at the same time, I play an important role in public life by developing its cultural, educational, educational, solidarity, and other activities in the field of social state and thus play an important social role. These are provisions that, on the one hand, force the religious community to operate in areas that are the domain of the State, only because it has such a position and such objectives of the Roman Catholic Church. Under the provisions of Article 5 of the Law of the Religious Community, which would not have an interest in exercising their position in cultural, educational, solidarity, charitable and similar fields, they cannot be recognised by the State as generally beneficial organisations. And extra. The state will assess when and in which case the church advocates true spirituality, true human dignity, real design in the field of religious life, and will grant someone the status of a universally beneficial organization. With regard to the fact that the state will assess that it is not sufficient, it will not grant. This is, however, a direct mixing of the state into freedom of conscience and religion and in defining the content of individual churches. Religious communities are not and will not be equal in this regard. The State will assess their behaviour and the financing of their content will not be based on competence to participate in calls and equally with other civil society organisations, but on the status to be granted by the State. There are many other issues on which we have considered in our previous discussions that we would require a more comprehensive study and a greater social consensus. We also proposed 26 amendments, but the coalition did not accept any. So it probably doesn't make any sense to talk about it being a consensual law. We'd like it, most of us wouldn't allow it. The law between the vast majority of citizens and citizens, who deeply appreciate freedom of conscience and religion, respect the religious feelings of others and want equality of all religious communities, will not be accepted as a good and reasonable compromise solution. It will be accepted as an imposed solution adopted by a minimum majority, which is or will be secured by the coalition. It will be adopted as a law imposed by this minimum majority in cooperation with the Roman Catholic Church and with the silent support of other established religious communities. However, in a content that goes beyond the majority understanding of the role in public life, which goes beyond the understanding of the constitutional separation of the State and the religious communities, because it provides for direct financing of religious content and activities, because it lays down the conditions for granting the status of general social benefit and because it extends the conditions of funding to an extent that will, in particular, enable the Roman Catholic Church to organise parallel activities for the purpose of the views of the RCC in public life and also in private life. This law therefore abandons the principles of the lay country in Slovenia. Many people, also because of negative experiences, and not in the ancient past, are concerned and cautioned that the church will once again become a decisive factor and a judge on public and social issues that do not concern belief. On these issues, however, the Church was, as a rule, not tolerant and understandable to the views of others, but also dogmatic and totalitarian, as it requires respect and enforcement of its views and values also through moral pressures and other methods of elimination. We also face some of these issues today, so we do not want to return to such division. Many experts have also understood the content of the law in this way and have evaluated it in this way. Many views of citizens and citizens also speak about this concern, so it would be reasonable today to reject the law and open the way for its substantive improvement. If he stays the way he is, Members and Members of the Social Democrats cannot support him. Moreover, we believe that we cannot even participate in providing a quorum at the time of its adoption, so we will leave the room in our decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Aloise Sok will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dear President, fellow Members and Members, Representative of the Government! Everything that we are about to hear today from behind this booth and even in the National Assembly has already been said, everything has already been heard, even many departures from the meetings of the National Assembly have already been seen, or it is already announced that if this law is adopted today because of the veto of the State Council, there will be a constitutional review of this law. It is quite clear that this is no longer a matter of substance, of any argument, but of a policy based on the ideology of this issue. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that for the continuation of the cultural struggle in the Republic of Slovenia, while we can listen from the news world, let us say today from America, where they report on a prayer breakfast, where the president of the country gathers policies from around the world and where European Member Lois Peterle attended from our country, and then here is the argument that was just before me communicated to the Slovenian public, with which, of course, we cannot agree. There is no argument that this law favours larger church communities. The answer to this question, which we were able to hear from one of the representatives of political parties who opposed it, was very symptomatic in a recent broadcast on television in Odessa, when the journalist asked him whether it was not possible to say by the same argument that larger political parties were also receiving more funds than smaller ones. The answer was that the parties were a constituent part of the State. What we could translate as to whether religious communities are not, and for this reason, of course, are unnecessary, and that, therefore, there is no need to devote any resources to the functioning of religious communities. Even more interesting was the conclusion that the State should also finance the unbelievers. I don't know. I can't even imagine that. Who, then, are dedicated persons, unbelievers, and what places they need to operate. But all of this points to the lack of argumentation, ideology and politicization of this issue. As the government representative said, it's not about any news. Even in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, certain funds were intended to co-finance the social security of the clergy of various churches and not only the Roman Catholic Church, as it is trying to show in the Republic of Slovenia. The veto of the State Council is totally unnecessary. The fact that they did not mean it also shows that none of the representatives of the State Council are here. And there is only one more fact of how unnecessary this State Council is, whose only task is to vote veto to the laws of the National Assembly. No solutions are offered, but they only force us to spend hours and hours like this wasting time and debate, so we can say we're hitting an empty straw about one and the same thing. Slovenia is in the European Union, we are in the third millennium and nothing else can be regulated in the Republic of Slovenia, as adopted and determined in the developed part of Europe. And to conclude. It is interesting to see this law again today when it is a great holiday in this largest Slovenian Roman Catholic Church, which is so hated by some in this country. It is the feast of the candlestick, 40 days after Christmas, when the holy family, Joseph and Mary, gave the newborn in the temple. And when old Simeon awaited them there, this new child was raised up and foretold that many would be resurrected, many in [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But many will stumble against him, and will attack him. More than 2,000 years after this event, this forecast is still true and manifests itself in this way. In New Slovenia, of course, we will once again support this law, just as we have already supported it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Now the law in force, as we have repeatedly said, has been passed in 1976. It is outdated and lacking because it does not regulate certain fundamental areas, the register of religious communities, the procedure, the criteria and the conditions for registration and financing. It's not consistent with the Constitution. These are words that we have heard no more than many times in the context of the meetings of the parent working body, as well as at the very beginning of this point today from the mouth of Mr Čepar, the man who is actually signed under the law on religious freedom. I ask in which part of the law now in force, and regardless of the fact that it is from 1976, is not in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and in particular where that part of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is, that article which dictates the financing of religious communities from the State budget. The fact is that the government's proposal for a law, the law that we are actually challenging today with the veto of the State Council, legitimizes unconditional financing for religious servants. It's not just that. This law is actually a roof law, a roof law and a foundation for all the other financial donations it receives, not only any religious community, but especially the largest Roman Catholic Church. We have adopted in this mandate, regrettably, the Social Act, characterized church activity as generally beneficial and therefore subordinated to the priorities of public procurement funding. We passed tax legislation, freed the church from paying taxes, and at the same time gave it the opportunity to receive additional funds under the taxpayers' income statement. The Church is fully legally engaged in its market activity, although by all reasonable explanations and rules and other standards that apply to legal entities in our country in black. That doesn't apply to the church. The field of education in public or state primary school is introduced and implemented in the framework of regular religious instruction. High school. Will we receive an elite university at this pace under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Church? Social security. Theologians, in their new position as social workers, are actually giving rise to a socially educated and qualified staff from the leading positions of social protection institutions. Even from bodies dedicated to strategic issues in the field of social protection or social policy. No wonder we had that infamous Petty Officer's fertility strategy. For the purposes and functioning and the spread of faith, laws change in our country, but literally in our country. If it does not go with the law and the public goes by, the government regulation will be amended by Parliament. The church bell suddenly becomes a pleasant tune that does not make noise in the environment. The bishops are paid millions of dollars, as well as the rest of the rules under the rule of law of our country, when we talk about prosecutions of accused perpetrators, obviously not applicable to church dignitaries or employees. On a flat-rate basis, if I wanted to go into detail, I would, believe me, list another minute, only from the scope of the laws, regulations and the work of this Government in this mandate. Therefore, I appreciate, not only that this Government or representative, Mr Čepar, goes too far in the interpretation of the Constitution, Article 7, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which says that the State and the religious communities are separate, but you are at the grave and, I hope, also share the way they subdue the entire segment of legislation and social life, literally at all costs. How ugly it is to play around religious law is actually a series of business infringements about the procedure for dealing with this law. Thus, the government or the government coalition was wriggling and inventing because it was unable to provide most support for this law, that it was practically for the first time in history, or the fourth time, dealing with the law, not officially, but that fourth is being dealt with without the veto that we are considering today. In the Slovenian National Party, we fully agree with the indications of the State Council in its own explanation of the veto vote. At the same time, I must reiterate to Mr Čepar the criticism that he has misused his powers and also the legislation which has been adopted or is in force in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm reading a text from a magnetogram where Mr. Chapar states [[Quote]] : "The religious communities that expressed their support for this government proposal for the law were identified in the 2002 census 99.6% of those who identified themselves for any religious confession." [[End of quote.]] And my questions follow. So, almost all those who have been identified by the census as members of any religious community are supporting this bill, or what? And last but not least, to those who don't know or deliberately skip the Constitutional Court's decision. Data from the inventory, respected colleagues and colleagues, must not be used or, rather, abused for the purpose of using it as part of a kind of interpretation. Otherwise, allow me to rediscover the key points of the roof law if you want, even though it is as European democratic as we have heard today in the presentation of my position before me. This law provides for the payment of social security contributions to religious servants. The church is thus exempt from paying contributions or taxes. The church legally carries out its activity on the grey market. This law regulates the right to spiritual care in the military, police, prisons, hospitals, social security institutions. The religious community may be registered under this law if it operates for 10 years and has at least 100 believers. Of the 40 officially functioning religious communities, more than 30 from the government proposal would receive nothing but unfair competition. And allow me, according to the latest data of the Peace Institute, 80 percent of today's functioning religious communities under this law could not actually work. And I ask whether this is the very sung equality of all religious communities in our country, for which this law is also to be pursued so strongly. Unprofitableness of religious communities. Is unprofitable accumulation of capital, respected colleagues and colleagues? It should be noted that in the government proposal, religious communities have a tax advantage: at the same time, they draw state resources while, to an unlimited extent, without supervision and legal protection, they can actually carry out profitable activities and also increase profits on the capital market. And when you speak to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court has never confirmed the state funding of religious communities or activities, but it has indicated that this is prohibited in countries with similar arrangements. Today, some religious media are almost directly financed by the state. The funds shared under the Media Law were recently distributed on the basis of modified calls for proposals in or under incomprehensible circumstances. The fire radio received 25.49 million tolars, and I'm sorry, because I'm still talking in tolars, the call came from last year, and that's why the funds were then allocated in tolars. And I also believe that somehow it is still easier to understand the amount in dollars than in euros. The label Ognjišče was awarded 14.75 million and the Family 7.7 million and the Society for the Promotion of Human-Favourable Use of the Vernet Electronic Networks, which takes care of the web site of rcc.si and 2.3 million Slovenian Tolars. In short, more than 50 million then Slovenian tolars together, and I mentioned just something, I'll say, the most important religious media. When we talk about the allocation of funds, it simply does not go beyond what is specifically referred to in Article 5 of this Law and which has actually received a basis for enforcement also within the framework of the Social Act. I am, of course, talking about the status of commonly useful organisations. Allow me to focus again on Mr. Chapar's words regarding Article 5 or the general utility [[Quote]] : "Therefore, in Article 5, it is not primarily religious freedom as such, but rather the importance that churches and religious communities have in the wider social sphere. This is generally a useful organisation, in Slovenian justice and also in comparative law known, for example, the Law on Institutions and even the Law on Society mentions, even though it was subsequently adopted under this Government, it is said to have been adapted. Article 2 of the Establishments Act provides, for example, that an institution is established for a generally useful purpose, inter alia, if it is established for religious purposes." And I'm gonna end up here with this quote. Allow me to ask in this context, but really ask - but I believe that I will not get an answer today, for some time now I have been waiting on it by the competent government institutions - in which context then the rest of the voluntary societies and organizations, whose primary purpose or purpose, if you want, are exclusively to save human lives that are indispensable to our society, which, if you want, are not just mentalists, but also bodyguards. Are firefighters, mountain rescuers and so on not generally useful because they are not established for religious purposes? This makes a significant difference and here is literally the superstandard position of the church in our society. The separation of the State from the religious communities under this law is virtually gone, despite the constitutional provision, which at least remains very clear for the Slovenian National Party. Allow me, but I will slowly conclude that I will not be too long, short and succinct, facts, even though I have heard at the outset that there is actually no argument as to why or why someone would not support the law or support the veto of the State Council. In fact, the government wants state funding for social security contributions from dedicated persons, employees, staff of religious communities. The government favors only one of the registered religious communities in Slovenia, the government wants to bring the church as an important extension of the state even above the sphere of so-called civil society, I have already mentioned the Social Act. The government wants more rights, in terms of budgetary resources, for the existence and, of course, also for trade in religious ideas. And you want it or not, with this law the government wants to have a criminally irresponsible religious community, a body for respect for the principle of separation of the church from the state. On the other hand, the Government wants to employ new people at state costs within the church or religious communities. We anticipate, and if you look at the budget, this is confirmed, even tax subsidies, relief for the benefit of religious communities. The main observation made by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group to the Government under religious law was the double or multi-layer impermissible funding by the State and, of course, also the placing of one of the richest formations, if I concentrate solely and solely on Slovenian space, in a virtually privileged situation with special status. Last June I addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the question of the property of the Roman Catholic Church. If the Government has already set up funding by the budget, it is fair that the Government knows at least the property of the selected segment or of that intended to be financed by the State budget. Finally, it is a matter of public funding. Government response; Government does not have data on the size of financial and material assets. But the numbers speak and that is, believe me, an important argument to those who have the right to have no argument because we will not support or participate in the law in such an orderly work. By denationalisation until now, the Roman Catholic Church is expected to receive 40 billion tolars or 166 million euros. However, its requirements are still around EUR 233 million. This law provides for the complete exemption of taxes for all religious communities, primarily the Roman Catholic Church. They will be exempt from all payment of the cadastral tax, compensation for the use of building land, property tax, inheritance tax, gifts, etc. Only from the title of the building land did the Roman Catholic Church receive €61 million. And with this money under such conditions it is actually possible to enter the sphere of the economy and establish the d.o.o.-is and accumulate ownership in Slovenian companies. And then the first man of finance and everything that goes on in the RCC, with a smile of statement, will quote his statement, "I didn't know we were so rich," end of quote. At the end of the day, the Council of State gave us one more chance, especially for those who will once again take part in deciding on this law to reconsider and consider whether it is fair work. We will not take part in the vote in the Slovenian National Party this time, as we have done in previous discussions, so I am also predicting obstruction at this point. Perhaps just for thought or for explanation, even the numbers I have given speak of why for more than 2,000 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u121	Dear President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! Even today, the DeSUS Group will not support this law, because it discriminates against smaller religious communities, is unfair to the unbelievers, does not guarantee equality before the law, ignores the separation of the state and the church, guarantees permanent financing of religious servants, extremely wealthy other countries or churches in situations of limiting the rights of other citizens, of course also believers, in a variety of areas such as social protection rights, the rights of employees, the sick. Nor will we support the law because the applicant understands the constitutional provision on equality of religious communities by dividing them into churches and other religious communities, which can also be understood as a large church and a small other religious community. From here on in the same law we find a kind of understanding of equality before a law that requires at least 100 adult members from one religious community to register, to operate in the Republic of Slovenia for at least 10 years and to renounce the constitutional right of non-explanation or determination of the religious beliefs of those who have to make lists with all the main personal data or other religious communities by law will not be able to exercise any rights, including registration. But the churches are not subject to any of this, and that's it. This should be taken into account, enough already known data, such as from the last census, although they are more than questionable values. In all matters, it itself requires registration lists to smell the names and surnames of other religious communities under the condition of the exercise of rights under this law, not only under the condition of the exercise of rights, but even more so, these lists and lists required by this law to serve for various purposes, political and discrimination in the field of religion, employment, scholarship and the like. In line with this, our Group believes that the law in certain articles is inconsistent with the Constitution and, as it is, we will not support it either because none of our many amendments have been adopted to improve the proposal. Since coalition Members have been insisting that he has been aligned with us all the time, I have to provide the public with the background of this position. After the first, only, harmonisation of the law in September 2005 after an in-depth study, we failed to report the non-compliance within the scheduled five-day deadline, but we did so in writing before the proposal came to Parliament. The fact that we're late is true. It is also true that, with the right relationship of coalition partners, our comments and proposals should be taken into account later, as is the case with other laws every day. In fact, this law is an exception to the fact that there should be no more debate, no more doubt, no more comments and no amendments, especially in the coalition, since it has come to the National Assembly on it. Or in other words, you can argue, you can doubt, you can suggest, you can table amendments, but the change won't happen. You can be there for the conclusion, you can vote against it, but that's all. On that understanding, both the functioning of the coalition and democracy, the majority of supporters of this law and the way this law is dealt with should be afraid of the parking lot coming. In view of everything, our Group of Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure, announces the absence of further consideration of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Those that aren't on the list, and they're not in the hall, I'm not calling. Mag. Maja Potrat, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Dr. Chapar, Members and Members of Parliament! I am not quite sure that the number mentioned by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, how many times we have discussed this law at the third reading, is accurate because I think that the number of hearings before the final vote is even higher. This re-voting, on the basis of the State Council's veto request, I am using this as an appeal to all parliamentary coalition groups supporting the law to reconsider, however, whether this is such a legal text, which could be said to have received support, which is of a consensual nature, and which will overcome those differences between us which are and which are also hidden in the title of this law, is the Law on Religious Freedom. There is no need to express your conviction under the Constitution. So the demand for registration and the recording of your will is already questionable. But since it has been said today how important the day is, then let me remind you that the year 2007 is the same. But a year of equal opportunity not in the sense that you attribute to me as soon as I answer, and you think only of equality between men and women, but of equality of all, including healthy and unhealthy, of all differences. And in order to achieve equal opportunities, we must also be able to apply this equality on a legal basis. And I think that today's law is just an example of such a law that does not give these legal options, so it has to be rejected and actually written a text that is acceptable. I don't object to the fact that the current law, public law, is 30 years old. It is therefore necessary to think even more about the new circumstances that the law should have in order to reflect, not least, the spirit on behalf of which the President of the National Assembly last proposed at a meeting that it should also become a priority within the Slovenian Presidency; this is the intercultural dialogue that I have already mentioned at that time, and everywhere else it is necessary to read that it is an interfaith or interreligious dialogue. And if Slovenia wanted to be recorded among the Presidents as having a case of good practice, then the Law on Religious Freedom should be such a law in order to be adopted in that country by consensus. I cannot say that the word dialogue in the Slovak sense is made clear by the fact that some people are speaking and saying something, but others are expected to listen and nod. And if those others dare to think of anything else, they see the opening and the beginning of a cultural struggle. However, experience in cultural warfare has a religious community that wants to legitimize the name of churches in this law, although there is no such thing in the Constitution, and this religious community has a very rich experience. Anyone who takes into his hands the book of Prešeren’s company 100 of the famous Slovenians will be able to read a very interesting fact at Ashkert in order to avoid reading too much. Anton Ashertz wrote a password over his desk, in the name of which he lived and created. This password is: in the name of the people, of righteousness, of truth, of beauty, and of free thought; in the name of all the oppressors, of the persecutors, and of the sufferings; in the name of all the advancement of man. And when the man who created in this name died, the trnovo priest Ivan Vrhovnik, who was the only one who voluntarily attended Anton Ashkerc's funeral, was treated in his own parish so that they began to collect signatures against him in the thorny parchment. The teachers who explained Ashkerce’s songs at school were also not overly kind because they were persecuted. This is just one minute of who has been sowing the cultural fight, so I find it difficult to bear that every time I advertise on behalf of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion, it is obvious that I am starting a cultural fight and that this expression is something that has no place in democratic society. In doing so, I should point out that even the representatives of the Roman Catholic Church do not hide the fact that this law is written in such a way that it is protective of the largest religious community, because they say it is right because it is the largest, the largest. And I will ask again: Where is the European spirit and the European latitude? The protection of minorities is in the spirit of Europe. We who are not believers will need a special law to protect ourselves slowly, and I hope that better than the bears of the Bachelor, because they also serve it in life. This, of course, may have been a bit too drastic for anyone, but it has to be said because also the statements about the fight, about the cultural struggle, were militant. And in the law of religious freedom, let me point out just one small fact. I'm a regular family reader. And I will not interfere with editorial policy or assign responsibility to the editors for what can be read in the letters of the readers. For comments and for what journalists write, however, it is possible to say that it shows spirit and also shows how they advise believers. And sometimes I can't really take that as a contribution to co-existence and understanding between different thinkers. But what especially surprised me was connected to the church wedding. In fact, the matter resolved as to why a church wedding could not replace lay weddings, or those now under the domain of the State. Why not make it available, and if anyone wants to marry a church, that is enough, and then it is not necessary for the mother to make a marriage. And this is another example that, for example, we did not talk about in the Law on Religious Communities, but there is also an area in which the Church wants to enter. And to conclude, I will only explain one more matter that Dr. Chapar knows well enough. I constantly ask the Minister of Public Administration or the Government, in relation to non-governmental organisations, by addressing NGOs, by recognising their status and by financing them. And several times I have been promised that an agreement will be reached between the Government and between NGOs. The text of this Agreement has been prepared since 2003 and has not been visible in this form of maturity in order to be signed. And why is this agreement not signed? They explained to me that there is in fact a definition, a definition of which the status of non-governmental organisations cannot be obtained by political parties and by religious communities. However, this is also one of the areas where it can be seen how many religious communities actually are, but in this case, I think of the largest one that we refer to as the Roman Catholic Church gets, but there is another question. We haven't received an accurate answer yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. First of all, I must say that this debate is quite superficial in one part. Indeed, this is a debate which also affects the foundations of the European Community, which is based on values. For the basis of what we are discussing today is the values and human rights and all the issues related to this issue. In fact, constitutional law is very clear about the rights enshrined in the Constitution and let me put it this way. Freedom of religion is a human right. It is enshrined in the Chapter of the Slovenian Constitution, which does not allow any restriction, nor is it an excuse that then another provision of the Constitution does not permit it or allows it only to a lesser extent, as explicitly stated in Article 15 of the Constitution. It is therefore a matter of constitutionally protected goods, so it is not only for the State to allow this passive, as some here today do, to interpret in a persistent way, but this idea has already occurred in public debates, if we allow everyone to declare it publicly, if that is what they want, but it is all fulfilled. No, it is the duty of the State to establish conditions for the fulfilment of the constitutionally protected good, including the confession of faith, so that this right can be actually realized. And that's what this law is about today. In this context, this debate should take place. Above all, it is sad that this debate has been directed largely in line with all those prejudices that have been embedded in the Slovenian population through education, through the media, through all institutions of public life over the past decades. These were mainly prejudices against the then only organized community, which, by definition, represented a minimum opposition, was a religious community, a Catholic church. But as you all know, most of all, the ones you talked about today, the law doesn't talk about it. The law speaks of all religious communities and does not regulate anything special for one and does nothing different for one another than for all others. On the contrary, it sets clear criteria, criteria and clear rules of the game. From this point of view, this law is completely European; it is comparable and makes sense in Europe. And by the way, if we draw an equation with another area of public expression of ideas when it comes to politics. The exact same system or comparable, if you want, as it is written here, when it comes to a right that binds to the number of members, i.e. to the size, if you want, of individual religious communities. The same criteria, including on the basis of measurable conditions, are also laid down when it comes to financing political parties. There is also a threshold, only when the party exceeds that threshold, it is entitled to reimbursement of costs, to regular funding and has already been judged by the Constitutional Court. It is also a matter of constitutionally protected goods, so the matter is completely comparable in this respect. And the Constitutional Court has ruled that this is appropriate. Once it only required a minimum reduction of the threshold, but in this context it concluded that everything was fine. So it's not that this marriage is inconsistent with the Constitution, it's something else. Unfortunately, what my colleagues have already stressed is primarily about reviving the cultural struggle. In order not to be based on reality, however, things need to be said simply and by quoting. See if it is true to favour one community at the expense of others who are competitive in this area, then it is clear that surely all other communities would be the most active opponents to such solutions. Now, if you'll excuse me for a few quotes. Negoti Porić, Secretary of the Islamic Community: "The Islamic Community can't wait for the law to be passed and a new period will begin with its implementation, as the current law was passed in 1976," and then rejects all these obvious arguments. If anyone wants to make sure of that, I have quotes here and they can look at them in my office. Bishop Geza Erniš, Evangelical Church: "In view of the primacy of the privilege of someone, I claim that no religious community can be enforced by law," so of course he completely rejects such an observation. And at the end of the parish Peran Boskovic, Serbian Orthodox Church: "I think it is high time to adopt such a law. Members should finally vote for it because there is too much politics around it. The law does not discriminate against anyone, but it does bring transparency and clarity. The worst part is there's no such marriage." Is there more to it, fellows? Please, let us leave empty words and prejudices to history, too much has been done, and let us adopt a law that is European comparable and opens up new freedom, a new opportunity for the realization of constitutionally guaranteed rights to the country of Slovenia. Finally, let me stress that you all know for sure that one of the co-authors of this law, if not the main author, is one of the co-authors of the Slovenian Constitution, who therefore knew very well what right it was and what are the best and European appropriate ways to realize it. And don't forget, although some people find this very hard to hear, Europe, a united Europe has been divided into some seeming values. Europe, a modern and united Europe, is based in its deepest sense on Christian values. Let us accept this as a starting point and become Europeans also by our conduct and by the values we advocate in public life.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Well, in this law, in the process that we have dealt with before, I have pointed out that the applicant should certainly make very clear criteria for this funding as to what kind of property any of the religious communities has, and whether it is then necessary to add any money from the State budget in particular. In fact, I have highlighted an area where population is shrinking, or that demographic picture is such that people are getting smaller and, last but not least, the question has been asked, what will they do then, I don't know, a priest himself or anyone or, above all, a priest in this area if he doesn't have people. Thus, this law does not, in particular, contribute to the preservation, including the settlement in those areas that are being emptied, of one of the biggest problems in the Republic of Slovenia and the money we are investing obviously in a completely different place and, last but not least, it is not to be expected that this solution will occur. I am confident that if we have a settlement everywhere, all religious communities will also be able to function in accordance with the beliefs of those who live in a particular area. Therefore, I think that more resources, more will and more efforts should be made to keep such areas alive. However, it is certainly necessary to listen in such areas or in areas where, for example, one religious community is barely doing its job to help. And many times such an role is played by the Evangelical Church, which lacks so much wealth, does not have so much income, but wants to carry out its activities in the same environment as others, but has significantly greater problems and difficulties in carrying out this mission. Thus, this law should follow this situation more closely - and if it goes back to what I have originally pointed out, I think that, indeed, before this law is decided, in the National Assembly, there should be an accurate picture of what property a religious community has and whether it needs any additional euro to carry out its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. I will be brief in view of the fact that we have debated this issue for a long time. I will support the Law on Religious Freedom, prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Even though we have already said this several times, I will say once again that the law in force is now 30 years old and has emerged in a completely different social political environment, at a time of non-democratic regulation, when the principle that everything that is not exceptionally permitted is above all prohibited. During that time, this law also experienced only two amendments, in 1986 in the field of criminal provisions and then in 1991 in the field of the establishment and functioning of private schools. There may not be too much here if we look back a little bit and remember that by 1991, until that change was all those who worked in any way, say, in the field of theology, are all those professors who could have been even four times doctors, had only been recognized, some even primary school, and most of them high school. In short, that was the outline of the times and in this spirit, and at that time the law that is still in force was formed. I am convinced that it is necessary to adopt this law, which we are now considering and upon which the Council of State has vetoed. This is a good law, which primarily eliminates the legal void that has arisen in this area and also eliminates the shortcomings of the old law, in particular as regards the definition of the concept of the religious community, nor does it regulate their situation, nor does it regulate how the religious community should be registered. The fact is that the new Law on Religious Freedom gives absolutely equal conditions and equal starting points to all religious communities. Here we hear again and again the privilege of the Catholic Church. Of course, the Catholic Church is primarily the largest, even in Slovenia, not to mention other countries that are in the European Union. Of course, that is precisely why this law does not favour any religious community on the one hand and does not discriminate on the other. Of course, it is necessary to take into account the conditions that must be met in order for a religious community to register and register. However, when it fulfils these conditions, it may also exercise special rights arising out of this law. Here we are talking about social security contributions, about the recognition of the construction and use of places for religious purposes by religious communities, and also about allowing people to carry out their religion in conditions where, for example, they are isolated from their home environment, and as set out in Article 41 of the Constitution, which guarantees the right of each individual to freedom of religion. And here I don't know why the opposition has always so much opposition about this, given that we know that Mr Grizold and Mrs Zdenka Cerar have already introduced this religious spiritual provision into the military. I am also convinced that any religious community that wants to develop will meet the conditions given within this law. Again and again, the question is why there are hundreds of people. And I say that there must always be a critical mass of people for some good operation, otherwise there can be abuse. If the number was too low, it could actually be abuse. And maybe two sentences about funding. The first version of the Religious Freedom Act was already under the previous government, and even the budget support for the social security of priests was planned to rise to 100%. Today in this law this item is falling to 60%, and last but not least, in Slovenia there has been this partial payment of social security contributions for decades. Of course, in this law, which we are about to adopt today, I hope that, finally, there is a significant change only in the fact that this law on financing, in the area of financing, is significantly more transparent and transparent. Thus far, social benefits have been indicated to religious communities, and these contributions will now be made directly to the insured. These are things that certainly convince me, and others are that I will back up the Law on Religious Freedom.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor. He's quitting. Mrs. Kucler Dolinar. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Since the opposition often refers to experts, I am surprised to see why even today some quotations have been cited by those who oppose the law. In particular, I would like to point out that Mr Roberts, in one of the Slovenian newspapers, said that in a pluralist society, in a pluralist country, religious institutions must also have the necessary place under the sun and must be allowed to do so. The New Slovenia Law on Religious Freedom allows this, and those many fears of separation from religious communities are preserved - the law of constitutional separation preserves it, but each divorce allows for cooperation. In fact, cooperation and separation are both necessary in order to function freely. This is the basis of the law, and I will support the law again and so will our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you. Dr. Chapar, is there anything else you'd like to discuss? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Most of these comments have already been answered several times, but I would like to say something briefly on those directly placed. So, for the first time, how to understand a statement of great support. The declaration of great support must be understood and read, as the Member State correctly stated. Data are public and from the Bureau of Statistics. Secondly, what I think is unconstitutional in this marriage. In this law, I believe it is unconstitutional, for example, to speak of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, to speak of religion as a private matter, while Article 41 of the Constitution guarantees freedom of religion in public and private life, to speak of the punishment of religious communities that would hope to act without the State applying and to intervene in the granting of sacraments and what else could be found. So, with regard to the obvious, none of the amendments were accepted, nothing was taken into account. A lot of views were actually taken into account before the law was passed, because before the government law was passed, the opposition law had come forward and the debate had already been held in this House. Thus, the Government could take into account some views before the formal introduction of the law into Parliament. All I'm mentioning is a school article, then a half-assed funding, all of which was written in the media. So none of the amendments were accepted. In the second reading, the applicant's willingness to accept a few amendments was communicated, I think it was four amendments, but after that notification we were informed that these amendments had been withdrawn. I believe that it is necessary for the Government to adopt the law and propose that it be reconfirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u134	Thank you. Does Mr. Jenko want to do it on behalf of the proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u135	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Council of State has been actively involved in the mere procedure for the adoption of the Law on Religious Freedom. Unfortunately, the competent committee of the National Assembly and the National Assembly themselves did not consider our opinions to be in place, so they did not include any of the opinions, suggestions or suggestions in the law. I would like to point out and reject all indications that the State Council has no intention of politicising the subject of the law, since, as a non-political body, the representative of civil society is to the greatest extent reflecting the relationship, atmosphere and attitude towards the proposed law by citizens. The Council of State proposes not to support the National Assembly in re-declaring the law on majority freedom. And why? Because the law does not regulate religious freedom, but it does speak of the religious community and the churches, since nowhere does it mention a large group of citizens, these are incredible. Since it interferes with the Constitution with the defined separation of the Church from the State, because public funds finance a religious activity, which is unacceptable because it discriminates against smaller religious communities because, through the definition of a socially beneficial organisation, it finances religious communities and activities carried out by a number of civil society organisations, without a call for competition, which is discriminatory to civil society organisations. As public funding does not take into account the entrepreneurial resources and income derived from the assets held by religious communities. The Council of State considers that the adoption of such a law would dispute and polarize citizens on a subject of a very sensitive nature. This is also supported by the decision of the State Council to postpone the veto in the fact that it is also supported by religiously defined state councilors, who are represented in the State Council in the majority. We believe that this is precisely the decision of the Council of State to give the right picture and reflect the attitude of citizens towards the way in which this matter is saved by this law, which is rejected in the majority opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The application for discussion shall be open. Please sign in. Mr. Run, please, you have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. In view of the debate held by some colleagues and, above all, colleagues this time, I would like to give my opinion on two, three things. Look, the talk is that any of those who warn us that new substantive solutions in marriage are not appropriate, we do not want to respect freedom of conscience as constitutional rights. It's made up and it's not true. We are talking about the situation of religious communities and about the rights that the State gives to religious communities, whether appropriate or not, in accordance with the Constitution or not. And this is a completely different debate than the question of whether freedom of conscience and religion is recognized and, of course, the complete freedom of the religious community to exercise their spiritual care, to perform religious rites, and so forth. The second is the question that I must say that I have a truly peaceful conscience that all the concerns that we have expressed are more than standing. In fact, it is a question of whether or not the religious community is a constituent part of the State. Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is no religious community in the constitutional part of the country; there is no religious community in the country, it operates in the country, it has rights and possibilities for action in the country, but there is no religious community as an integral part of the state authority, thank God, with us, in the system of the lay country and the separation of the state and the Church there is and cannot be. And whoever understands otherwise, I do not think he understands Slovenian constitutional provisions and if he advocates such an argument - I hope not Mr Čepar, because this is not what Mr Čepar has stated - the content of this law, then I am not afraid to be warned about what they can and where they can bring such solutions. Please also let the advocates of the law think about this, because there are many different issues governed by this law. And we, with regard to freedom of conscience and religion, with regard to respect for this right, also with regard to the active attitude of the State towards the exercise of this right, have no doubts. However, we have concerns about the situation of religious communities, especially the most powerful, which has the strongest influence, which also has the most political engagement and wants to work in public. I don't know how Slovenians and Slovenians would behave, what our views would be if, like the most powerful Roman Catholic community, they wanted to shape their views, Muslim, Orthodox and some other in Slovenia. We'd probably have serious concerns. And that is why I think it is wise and really sober to think about this law and not simply agree, on the basis of the general phrases, that all the solutions proposed are good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry I went out early, so I didn't have the chance to perform in the order of order, but I would like to say one of the reasons why I don't want to vote on this law. I believe that, at the time of the debate, at all stages of the consideration of this law, we have repeatedly said what everything in the law should be corrected, changed, improved, so that it could be acceptable to us for practically all Slovenes and Slovenes. Now this law, I'll say, is unconditionally acceptable to only one part of the Slovenes and Slovenes. And those among you who think that this part of Slovenk and the Slovenes completely overlaps with the believers and believers of the Catholic Church are very wrong. I know a whole range of believers and believers, active and faithful believers and believers of the Catholic Church who disagree with this form of this law, because in the depth of their souls, democratic people who believe that religious communities must have the same rights, equal duties, equal opportunities in our country. They certainly don't have them under this law. It is simply that the law names them in two ways to speak contrary to the Constitution on Churches and Religious Communities, as if the religious communities were something secondary, because each time this word relationship is repeated, the word "church" is first laid down in the law and then "and other religious communities". So, somehow in a word relationship, you can understand that. The other thing that absolutely bothers me is that this law, actually now that the Income Act has been amended and adopted, is in force and is being implemented, by asking me how the Ministry of Finance will finally instruct us how we will direct or allocate 0.5% of our income for various purposes, including religious purposes. It is said that 0.5% of all those billions that the state collects from taxpayers in the form of income will go for various purposes, a large part, certainly a large part, because in any case this decision does not affect the pocket of Slovenk and Slovenia, taxpayers, but only the state budget. Despite the fact that half a percent, theoretically a large part of this half-percent, will go to the Church and other religious communities - I think that in particular one Church - we retain in this law the right of religious communities to pay, to cover social insurance costs and to exempt income payments. I believe that in no way is right that the legislator or the Government should propose that this law be rejected and that it be drafted and deleted in this law - in a transitional period of course, because today it is not known how many taxpayers will decide to devote their half percent to individual religious communities, but that, at that time, in a transitional period, it is already known that the State will stop paying social contributions to religious dignitaries. I think that this is the only right and that at least, this was a very valid reason, a very serious reason to stop this law, to return to the first reading and to correct it in some of the definitions. I won't list any other reasons. I think that what I have said so far is enough, and I hope that you will be so reasonable, colleagues and colleagues, that you will reject the law, so that it can then be thoroughly repaired again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dear Members, Members, Mr President! I agree in fact that it is necessary to regulate the new situation of religious communities in Slovenia, that the old law, which is indeed 30 years old, is already quite old and inadequately basic, but in the manner proposed in this law, I think it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I cannot take part in the adoption of this law and predict my obstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u142	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that in the re-decision in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. What desire to explain your voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 of whom voted against nothing. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Real Estate Law on State, State, State and Community. Yesterday, 1 February 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter of the law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that the draft law on third reading has been tabled as an amendment proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I am opening a debate on Article 36 of the Law and on the amendment proposed by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. The application for debate on Article 36 and the amendment shall be pending. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. In the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Real Property of the State, Landscapes and Communities, we have drawn attention to the amendment tabled by the three parliamentary groups to interfere primarily with the rights of local communities in the management of property, and Minister Virant himself has agreed that it would be good to introduce into the text of the law a provision for local communities to give priority to transport or land management on the internal market. We have also tried to summarise this desire of Minister Virant and to draw up an appropriate text that would improve the text adopted in the second reading. Again, I would like to point out that it is not just about interfering with the rights of local communities, which are really investing in the fact that building lands receive such status and that they also receive a substantial higher value on the market than if they remain, for example, agricultural land, and that it is not good or, I may say, it is not even fair to local communities, that the State Fund is then selling such a farmland, and that the municipality has almost nothing more or less. This could be added only to the last most recent activity that we are considering, in Slovenia it is the establishment of the provinces. If we read the provisions of the Regional Development Act, this text speaks of adopting and implementing the regional development programme of the province. In the area of environment and space, it adopts a provincial housing programme, provides funds for the construction, acquisition and transfer of non-profit apartments and residential buildings, and establishes a public housing fund. Thus, the transfer to the State Housing Fund of agricultural land and building land held in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia also interferes with the future landscapes. And even if we look at the land financing law, one of the incomes in the provinces is the income from the property. So we will impoverish the congregations and the provinces if this amendment is not adopted, so, colleagues and colleagues, I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you. Is there any other interest after the debate? No, then it concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 36. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that due to the amendment adopted, the law would not be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Please sign up. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u145	Madam President, allow me, I probably wanted to apply as a Member, but I think I can also, on behalf of the Group of Members, support the proposal for a bill by the Group of Members. However, to take advantage of the opportunity, after 10 years of being forgiven, I informed the President of the National Assembly half an hour ago that I was withdrawing from the position of Member of the National Assembly in writing with 1.3. Therefore, honourable fellow Members and colleagues, allow me to thank you, after 10 years of working in the National Cooperation Assembly, for the good relations I have with you, also sincerely in this place. I think that this is the last meeting in this term, that there is no longer a meeting of the National Assembly in February, and I myself will be present just this minute at this meeting. I would like this cooperation, which I had in my 10th annual term, both in this mandate and with some of my fellow Members, who have shared this fate since 1996 in the National Assembly, so that this cooperation would be better, on the one hand, to me as mayor of the second largest municipality of Maribor and on the other hand of this institution of the National Assembly. Personally, I wish good cooperation with you, with all other state institutions, including the Government, in the municipality of Maribor as a university city, all fellow Members of Parliament are welcome and also invited. Once again, thank you, personally, I think it's time that after 10 years, I just kind of go back to the city where I come from. Thank you so much for your cooperation. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u146	Mr. Kangler, it's not nice that you abused the Rules of Procedure, but it's nice of you to thank you for your cooperation. But your term of office will expire when I notify the National Assembly, so you're still a Member. Are we continuing with the session or Mr Brenčič, an explanation of vote? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Weber, an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you. We truly expected that there would be more obedience in drafting the text of the Law on Real Estate of the State, the Lands, and the Congregations. Sadly, it turned out that he did not really want to listen to himself, let alone reflect on what is written in this law. On the basis of such a text, as drafted primarily by this last amendment, of course we do not see any reason to support such a law, because it is harmful to the municipalities, it is harmful to the provinces, and not least for consistent regional development. The Republic Housing Fund will, of course, build apartments where the market will be the most interesting for it. It will certainly not build them where it will not be interesting for this fund to build apartments, and this will increase regional development differences, including the development of individual congregations. These are the differences that, of course, we cannot support and we do not really understand such an easy thought about the solutions that you are taking in the National Assembly. We will therefore oppose the adoption of the Law on the Real Estate of the State and the Lands and the Congregations, for in fact the provinces and the congregations will impoverish this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-02-02-SDZ4-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you. Is there any interest in explaining the voice in your personal name? No, no, no. Then we move on to the vote. Please take your seats. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 12. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. In doing so, allow another explanation, regarding the complication that has occurred with Mr Kangler's announcement that he will resign from his post. His emissary function will cease when I notify the National Assembly. In such a way that it is understood, even with 1.3. as he foretold, it would not be possible for him to resign unless he was then a State Assembly or a meeting of the National Assembly. So much for your knowledge. Your Honor! I hereby conclude the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for coming, and I wish you a nice weekend.
