ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We begin the continuation of the 27th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Mr Victory Jelinčič noble, Mr Miran Jerič and Mr Franz Pukšič. We're moving to 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEPARTMENT OF THE VOLIVAL AND REFERENDUM COMPETITION LEGISLATION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr. Secretary of Public Administration, Dr. Gregor Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, guests, visitors to the National Assembly, welcome! So we are ahead of second reading of the electoral campaign law. The electoral campaign legislation has virtually every democratic state. In particular, it is intended to establish a time frame in which an electoral campaign is under way, to establish rules for the media game, to ensure equality and equal opportunities for all candidates and all applicants, the rules of postering and other similar actions of the electoral campaign, and to lay down rules for the financing of the electoral campaign, to ensure that funding is transparent, transparent and also limited, that the campaign is not subject to financial logic, the logic of capital power. The vast majority of countries have an electoral campaign organised in this way. And this logic is followed by a new law that is trying to remedy the shortcomings of the now existing electoral campaign law. The main innovations it brings are the organisation of the referendum campaign, which has so far been completely unregulated, a broader definition of the costs of the electoral campaign to make the financing more transparent, including the financing of all activities during the electoral campaign. So far, the definition of these costs has been lacking. Then the news is mandatory identification of the campaign organiser, to know who it is who organises the election campaign and to supervise it by the Court of Auditors. Different deadlines are laid down for opening and closing the transaction account so that all transactions are actually completed before closing, rather than closing the account when half of the transactions have not yet been completed. An interim report on the financing of the electoral campaign, which was a big bureaucratic nonsense because it was completely casual and misleading, was sometimes shown to be ridiculously low funding data because the main transactions took place after the elections. The increased sanctions have been raised, the fines have been increased by 2 to 3 times, and other shortcomings have been eliminated, which the Court of Auditors has pointed out over the years. Since 1996, the Court of Auditors has pointed out the shortcomings of the electoral campaign law, and this has also been the main motive for the amendment. The main reason was to harmonise to take into account the Court of Auditors' comments and to ensure greater transparency and correct financing of the electoral campaign. The amounts are also changing, with particular emphasis being placed on the fact that these amounts have increased significantly under inflation compared to the current ones; these amounts have remained unchanged since 1997, as of then inflation has been 80%; we are raising the amount of the reimbursement for the funding of the electoral campaign to 0.33 euros from the previous 60 tolars - translated into tolars would amount to about 80 tolars, which is said to be one third at 80% inflation. Therefore, these costs increase substantially under inflation, with more than before included in the costs, so that this amount of reimbursement from the budget is cost-effective, rational and liable to taxpayers. On the committee, some useful amendments were adopted on the home working body, which improve the law, including on the proposal of opposition parties and the independent parliamentary group. These are mainly changes, amendments relating to the referendum campaign and actions before the start of the referendum campaign during the signing phase. The law now explicitly states that special public information on the collection of signatures can be organised and that the President of the National Assembly must provide the public with an appropriate notification of the beginning of the deadline for the collection of signatures and that RTV Slovenia must ensure that this notice is published free of charge. The second major change concerns restrictions on the financing of the electoral campaign. This one came into the marriage with an amendment on her mother's working body. This is to prohibit the financing of an electoral campaign by means of companies in which more than 25% of the capital is invested, i.e. public capital of more than 25%, as well as subsidiaries. This is, in particular, the substance of the law on political parties and we will also regulate this in the law on political parties, because, you know, one dilemma is one unclear provision, which makes it unclear whether the ban on financing the parties also applies to companies that are the daughters of companies owned by the majority of the state. Before the last campaign for local elections, some such companies were financed by political parties and one of the political parties, if I am a specific Slovenian Democratic Party, decided to dispel doubts and return this money regardless of the uncertainty of these provisions. I don't know what other customers did. The changes that have taken place on the committee also concern the organisation of an election campaign by trade unions, which now allows them to organise an election campaign in public institutions, where they have a contract with them on the way and conditions of work of the union in such a way that they can carry out their trade-union activities in these premises. So much for the intro. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the committee president, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u4	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members, fellow Members, our distinguished guests! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the Proposal for a Law on Election and Referendum Campaign submitted by the Government at its 32nd meeting on 11 April. In addition to the representatives of the proposer, i.e. the Government, representatives of the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and, as usual, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated. In an additional introductory explanation, in the context of the articles of the second hearing, the representative of the proposer, Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, stressed that, on the basis of the general consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Government had drawn up useful and constructive proposals to improve the content of the proposed law, a number of proposals had also been made by the interested public in these proceedings, some proposals had also been made by the municipalities and some good proposals had also been made by the coalition parliamentary groups under the amendments, and certain proposals had also been taken into account at the meeting of the committee itself, which had been forwarded by the opposition groups. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service noted, in his opening remarks, that the applicant had taken into account most of the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service in the preparation of the amendments tabled by the Coalition, while in general noting the implementation of the electoral and referendum campaign in the sense of the need for further examination of the individual provisions of the draft law if they could constitute an unjustified restriction to certain groups or individuals in the exercise of direct democracy by referendum. The representative of the Union of Free Trade Unions drew attention to the comments and views put forward on the draft law, in particular from the point of view of organising a referendum and a referendum campaign, including, in their view, the necessary solution after the creation of two separate laws. In the debate, some members of the Committee specifically pointed out that the proposal for a law is a system law and should therefore be taken into account that the law will regulate the electoral campaign for members and members of representative bodies as well as for individual bodies loved directly in future provinces. It was also proposed that the draft law should be supplemented by considering the collection of signatures for the referendum as part of the referendum campaign and that the organisers of the referendum campaign should be given special publicity through the media on the collection of signatures. In this regard, it was answered and explained that the referendum campaign was subject to the provisions of the electoral campaign law, unless the law provided otherwise. However, the issues raised in this regard are also addressed in an appropriate manner. The debate also took place on the issue of the possible number of campaign organisers. The discussion supported a solution that was proposed that any candidate for the referendum or any other candidate for the outcome of the referendum could have only one stakeholder per organiser. The debate also raised the question of how the National Assembly, the Government or the competent ministries and the local community could be involved in the referendum campaign, expressing the view that they could not be organisers of the referendum campaign, except for the government and the local communities, if they were the initiators of the referendum. Following the discussion, the members adopted some amendments tabled by SD, SDS, New Slovenia and SLS, as well as amendments tabled jointly by the coalition parliamentary groups. At the end of the day, the Committee voted on all the articles of the law together and adopted them.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 25th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 23.4.2007. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you very much. You probably know that because we have said this on the working body, but also in public, that we have also tried, in cooperation with the Minister and his willingness to enter into the electoral and referendum campaign law, provisions which, in our opinion, are specific to the referendum, which is a one-off act which, before the relevant majority in Parliament or the elections and voters cannot be formed, cannot be foreseen, therefore requires some special arrangement. One of the issues of such a special arrangement, which has not been adopted, although many of our proposals have been adopted within the framework of the home labour force, is the proposal to determine the content of the referendum campaign. So far, the third paragraph of Article 1 provides that the referendum campaign is advertising content and other forms of propaganda designed to influence voter decision-making in the vote and referendum, which is right and right, but provided that the first phase is carried out, which is very important when it gives the initiative of a group of citizens an individual and requires the collection of 40,000 signatures. In this part, when 40,000 signatures are being collected, we should provide the opportunity for applicants to have some kind of campaign. I am not saying that this is in the same way a campaign, but that they have the right to ensure that their messages are published, that they have the right to explain where the reasons for collecting signatures are, to agitate that to the collected signatures, which is a complicated thing, especially from the amendments and addition to the law on referendum and human initiative, where it is always only a subsequent confirmation referendum and for 30 days in which it takes time to collect signatures. Therefore, it seems to us that if this matter is not clear, then questions may arise in the implementation of the law, if it is not possible to organize and engage specifically to encourage voters and voters to go to the administrative unit and sign a request for a referendum. But if that's not the case, it's so much harder to collect 40,000 signatures. And if these 40,000 signatures are not available, then a later campaign that affects decision-making for or against the signed referendum makes no sense anymore. That seems reasonable to us. It is imperative that a comprehensive solution be reached and we do not see the reasons why the mother labour of this proposal has not been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you. Not that we would disagree with the content, but we are convinced that this amendment is not necessary at all to achieve this objective. This is more about the theoretical question of whether what happens at the time of signature gathering can be called a campaign or not. In the law, we defined the campaign as taking place in the last 30 days before the day of the referendum or the elections, when it comes to convincing voters to vote one way or another. However, by means of the amendments we have accepted, we have allowed the public to be informed of the signing initiative, we have committed ourselves to the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, to ensure, in an appropriate manner, a notice of the start of the signing deadline and also to allow the interested party to put up, select the organiser of the electoral campaign and also to open the account substantially before the real referendum campaign is launched. I am so sure that everything you want is possible in the law that this amendment really does not need to be more a philosophical debate about whether this event can be called a campaign or not at the time of signature gathering.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. There's a run-in for the second round. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I would rather see that instead of providing substantive and systemic issues, we provide content to help solve problems. I agree with the Minister that part of our comments from previous talks with the Minister has been adopted. Although we had a few more ambitions, I admit, and we expected a few more public announcements. For the time being, when an initiative is presented to the President of the National Assembly to collect signatures for citizens and citizens to carry out the referendum, special public information on the collection of signatures and at the same time on the radio, on television can be organised. And that's all there is to it. It would have been better if there had been more. However, if questions arise at this point, I will believe that we will be able to refer to the opinion of the Minister at the time of the debate and say that such an option fully exists and that no one can prevent it, including, as he has explained, even if it is a longer period, by raising funds at this time, because, without the means, you can probably do nothing at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I express my position. We don't support this amendment either. However, I believe that there have been a lot of proposals on the home committee that the Group of the Social Democrats has been very constructively addressed and many of them have also been accepted, and some have reached certain compromises. I must say that the Government's support for your proposals has also been very constructive and positive. With regard to the concrete proposal, however, I think it is right to clearly separate in the law the time of the campaign and the time to create the conditions for a campaign to begin, in this case a referendum campaign. Until we know whether the referendum will or not, a campaign for the referendum can also be launched. Therefore, we believe that the position of the Government is correct. We also believe that, in fact, in terms of spending resources, it is better that this time for collecting signatures is not included in the referendum campaign, which means also for those who drive this campaign so that they can have a greater share of the funds at the time of the campaign itself. From this point of view, we don't think it's such a smart idea either. Those interested in providing sufficient signatures for the referendum to be carried out at all must find other ways and other resources controlled in other ways, including the collection and use of funds, but again not as restrictive as at the time of the campaign. There are two arguments: one that strictly distinguishes the time of the campaign itself, when it is known that the referendum will be and when the campaign for the implementation of a specific referendum issue is also taking place, the other, even from a financial point of view, we feel better not to join the campaign in these two times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I find that no, and this concludes the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u14	Thank you. The government supports this amendment. I would just like to clarify that it is a matter of setting a deadline for the closure of the special transaction account for the financing of the electoral campaign, which is set up to allow all financial transactions relating to the electoral campaign to be effectively completed before closure, to also avoid the maturity of loans and any deferral of payments, so that the financing of the electoral campaign is closed at the end of this account, that the account is transparent and that the audit is possible by the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Check-in is on. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you very much. We believe that the amount of the penalty is therefore inappropriate for electoral campaign organisers who are parties and therefore have at least every four years experience in preparing the financing of the entire electoral campaign and with the same level as non-political parties, if they wish, can also be excluded, but in particular civil society organisations and individuals who act on a single basis require a referendum to be carried out. For this reason, our proposal is that, in some cases, the level or range of penalties at risk for campaign organisers should be reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u18	The provision which this Article, paragraph 3, sanctions is clear and unequivocal. I do not think that other campaign organisers should have a problem with understanding and respecting this provision. This is a violation of the funding limits. We believe that these different levels of fines would result in inequality, legal inequality between the various organisers of the electoral campaign, so the amendment does not support the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on the Amendment and Supplementation of the Bond Law. The State Council of the Republic of Slovenia at its 19th extraordinary meeting 5.4.2007 decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to reconsider the Act amending and supplementing the Bond Code before declaring the law. I should give the word to the representative of the State Council for reasons. I'm sorry he's not here. I would like to propose something, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. It is true that we had available for the first point of three hours and we ended it so quickly, so I would suggest 10 minutes of rest for those who need to have a word to come because they are not guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on the Amendment and Supplementation of the Bond Law. At the 19th extraordinary meeting of 5.4.2007, the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to reconsider the Act amending and supplementing the Bond Code before declaring the law. I give the floor to Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you, Chairman. Nice greeting again to those of us who stayed in the hall! At its 35th emergency meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Law amending and supplementing the Bond Code. We adopted this law at our meeting on 30.3.2007. On the basis of the written request of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, let me stress that the representatives of the State Council did not attend the hearing on the home labour body, so I regret that they are not among us today, so as to be able to present their purpose in more detail. As it is said, it follows from their written request that the reasons for the veto of the State Council are that it is an amendment to an illegal provision of the Bond Code, which is intended to break the fundamental principle that citizens, i.e. parties, are in an equal position. The Council of State also stated in its request that it considers that the Bond Code has ignored the fundamental legal principle of fairness and the principle that the economic function of interest should not deny the foundations of the social state and that this amendment should be inconsistent with the Directive of the European Parliament. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Robert Marolt, presented the Government's written opinion at the meeting of the home working body and stressed that the Government and the National Assembly with the Bond Act had not exceeded the constitutional and constitutional provisions and that citizens were in an equal position. In the opinion of the Government, the applicants refer mainly to Constitutional Court decision 267/06 and to the Directive on combating late payments in commercial transactions, but the Government notes that the State Council has somehow misinterpreted these two documents. In the view of the Government, the constitutional principle of equality is not violated, as it is necessary to regulate contractual relations between the parties on the basis of the general principles of bond law, in particular the principle of the free regulation of bond relations or the autonomy of will, which is not only a fundamental principle, but also, together with equality, a fundamental criterion for the distinction between civil law and public law relations. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of this service, in which he stressed that it was not within the competence of the Legislative and Legal Service to assess the appropriateness and practicality of the legal regime, but that, in accordance with Article 227(1) of the Rules of Procedure, he should examine the draft law only in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of the technical and legislative aspects. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee largely objected to the reasons for the State Council's request and expressed support for the law, which means that payment non-discipline is sanctioned, which in the past has also had a fatal impact on a number of companies and because of the failure to pay their obligations by several companies and thus the loss of employment in smaller companies. The enforcement proceedings were also ineffective due to poorly completed legislation, and the debtors also served a number of legal remedies to delay the proceedings, all the way until the cases were overturned. They supported the purpose of the law to encourage the fulfilment of the obligations of debtors. However, they were also members who felt that the novel was not necessary because we had a low level of inflation and the late interest was falling and that the novel was excessively interfering with the rights of debtors. Otherwise, the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly that the Law amending and supplementing the Bond Code be adopted again.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, who is the bill-maker, to explain the opinion. Here you go, Minister Dr. Sturm.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. I would like to present further the reasons which, in the opinion of the Government, justify the proposed solutions in the Law amending and supplementing the Bond Code and the reasons why we believe that the request of the Council of State for re-decision is not justified. First, the illegality of the proposed amendment is evident by the Council of State in its request to the already adopted law, thus undermining the fundamental principle that citizens are parties to an equal situation. It considers that the regulation of the rule of law that interest ceases to flow when it reaches the principal only for contractual interest, is contrary to the fundamental principle of the rule of law and equality before the law. In addition, there is a clear violation of the principle of fairness, non-compliance with the social and economic function of interest, and finally non-compliance with the European Union's legal regime, the directive on combating late business. In view of the evidence contained in the request of the State Council, it must first be said that late interest is not a contractual obligation but a civil sanction for breach of the obligation to fulfil the monetary obligation at the time of its maturity. Therefore, the debtor undertakes to fulfil the accepted obligation, such as to pay the purchase, to repay the loaned amount, at maturity, and, if it does not, to be paid late interest. The late interest is therefore a legal consequence of the delay and runs independently of the will of the parties to the contractual relationship. Their height may be the subject of an agreement. If this is not the case, the legal rate of late interest will be established. Two principles must be taken into account when entering into a bond relationship: the contract must be fulfilled, the "suncerland pact", and the principle of integrity and integrity. The social function of late interest is not to provide social security to a debtor who is unable to pay the debt. On the contrary, the late interest must be such that the debtor is forced to pay the debt and the potential debtors in order to accept commitments that could not be fulfilled in the event of maturity. It is the so-called preventive or penal function of interest. The rule "not ultra-altrum tantum" is indeed a classic rule of civil law, as the saints claim, but only for contractual late interest; it is proposed to amend Article 376 of the Bond Code. The classical sense of the rule that the creditor is entitled, in addition to late interest, to compensation if the damage exceeds the amount of late interest, does not mean that this should be the case when late interest reaches the principal’s level, but in the event that, in the period in which late interest is due, the damage is greater than what the creditor receives with late interest at the prescribed interest rate. The claim that we have a wide interest rate on us is not true either. This is absolutely prohibited for late interest. The prohibition of interest interest as a cogent provision is already governed by Article 375 of the Bond Code, which has already been established by the Bond Relations Act. The exemption applies only to the procedural interest referred to in Article 381 of the Bond Code and is necessary because the payment after the application is now dependent on the course of the proceedings, while at the same time the debtor of the creditor has brought his default so far that he has had to apply for judicial protection. With regard to the reported non-compliance with the regulation in other Member States of the European Union or the Directive, it is appropriate to reiterate that other countries do not lay down rules on the limitation of late interest to the principal amount and therefore have not raised any other countries when adopting the directive. Finally, the Constitutional Court also ruled in its decision of 15 March 2007 that the legislator's field of discretion in dealing with matters of economic and social policy was a free field of assessment, and that the legal issues relating to the obligation, the level and the running of interest were particularly broad. The legislative field of regulation in this area is particularly wide. The decision of the Constitutional Court in this case does not mean that the legislator would not otherwise have been able to settle the issues which the Constitutional Court dealt with in the light of the diversity of relations which are also affected by the regulation of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the parliamentary groups. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will once again support the amendments and additions to the Bond Code. While we agree that some of the reservations put forward by the Council of State are worth considering in our Group of Members, we have had certain reservations, but the arguments have prevailed and we are convinced that the solution proposed is better than the current regime. It is not to be overlooked that this is a contractual relationship, a voluntary relationship where the parties agree on mutual rights and obligations such as payment periods, interest periods and so on. And since it is a voluntary relationship where no party can dictate the content of the agreement, we cannot talk about some inequality or that the debtor would be in a worse position than the creditor. If we're talking about interest, it's some kind of payment for using foreign money. If it is a legitimate use, it is a contractual interest, but if someone unjustifiably uses foreign money, we get a late interest. Late interest occurs when the creditor fails to meet the agreed obligations or late payment. In so doing, the creditor has no influence whatsoever and can reasonably expect compensation for this unjustified use of its capital, or compensation for the damage resulting from it, is said to be due to the debtor’s delay. After the current arrangement at the time when the total unpaid interest reaches the principal, the creditor loses interest in settling his obligations because he uses foreign money unjustifiably or free of charge. Therefore, we believe that the proposed solution is certainly some improvement, that it also puts the creditor in a more equal position, as regards the treatment of the debtor or that it sanctions the failure to comply with the obligations agreed upon by the debtor. This arrangement will also mean for all debtors that before they enter into a contractual relationship, they will think more soberly and more responsibly before taking on contractual obligations. In our opinion, this will contribute to greater payment discipline and will reduce the possible speculation of those who have so far deliberately used foreign money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that so far there have been some difficult situations in practice for debtors, especially natural persons who have been caught up in default in the enforcement process. We are aware that any such forcible action is an action against the debtor's property, but it is the only instrument that the law gives to the creditor to pay his claims that the debtor has not paid. With understanding of these debtors' difficulties and in order to ease their problems, we have already prepared some solutions in the enforcement and insurance law, which, I hope, will please at least some of the problems of these debtors adopted. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will once again support the law we are considering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeaky on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u27	Ladies Members, Members, Mr President, Mr Minister, citizens and citizens! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the veto of the State Council. The reason for that is quite something. The key reason, however, is that the situation in 2007 is completely different from that in the long run in 1989 when real contractual and real late interest rates were introduced in the practice of the economic environment at that time and in practice the contractual and late interest rates exceeded the principal. Slovenia, which has taken over the euro, Slovenia, which has low inflation, is thus forecast, Slovenia, which, in addition to the European Union and the global economy, enjoys high economic growth, leaving interest rates still relatively low and even though these interest rates will increase, is not expected to exceed the capital under normal terms of interest, either contractually or late interest. This awareness, which is a fact in 2007, led the legislator to a previous reference to the National Assembly, where we know that the political majority had a different option, the most simplified one would be called a democratic, social, liberal option, as opposed to the current one, I will call it a deliberate, republican option. Why is that important? The fundamental issue in the veto on the Bond Code is not whether late interest rates can go through the capital or not. The question is, when do late interest rates go through the capital. If I said before that we have relatively low inflation and we have relatively low interest rates, today we have interest rates, which are either normal contractual, somewhere around 5 percentage points and late about 10 percentage points. The contract rate therefore takes 20 years to pass the principal interest if the debtor did not service the contractual interest. There is no situation in the economic contracts where the creditor would allow the debtor not to service the contractual interest rates on the other hand. Therefore, the situation in order for the contractual interest rates to pass through the capital is simply not. However, there is a possibility that the late interest rates of approximately 10 percentage points on the business that becomes controversial and therefore the creditor with a 50% probability believes that it is not obliged to return the money, the creditor believes that it must receive the money, and the debtor also believes with 50% probability that it is not obliged to return what was written in the contract. That's why, of course, the creditor and the debtor go to court. And only in cases where the rule of law does not work when there are delays in the resolution of judicial proceedings can late interest rates exceed the principal. The legislator of the previous reference led the situation of low interest rates and the fact that we all want to have a normal country, including a country where there is no judicial backlog, to limit late interest rates at the principal level. And that was an important amendment to the 2002 Bond Code. True, then, it was said in the National Assembly that this should apply only to transactions concluded after the law was in force. The Constitutional Court has ruled that this violated constitutional law, namely that there is no equality between those who entered into transactions before 2002 and those who do business after 2002. Of course, they have come into a dispute that requires a judicial decision. Therefore, the Constitutional Court annulled this part of the Bond Code and required the Government to come with a new solution. And here's the difference between us. This Government has decided, despite the fact that, in its programme of judicial delays, there is a plan that there will be no judicial backlogs by 2010, despite the fact that we have a whole bunch of projects, even though this Government and this Republic of Slovenia are being sued in European courts, this Government does not actually believe in its programme of resolution of judicial backlogs, so it says: "It is necessary to maintain in law the situation that late interest rates can exceed the level of the principal." And as I said, at about 10% of the late interest rate, this happens after about 8 to 10 years of judicial backlog, depending on how exactly the contract is made and the calculation of interest rates. This is now a special story or we have a conformal or linear calculation of interest rates, but this is not the subject of this discussion today. That is why, of course, the fundamental question that must be raised by Mr Minister, and I am pleased that today the Minister of Justice is here. Why was this dilemma not clearly exposed to changes to this law in January of this year? This law, which was adopted in January, provides no explanation for the effects. It doesn't say anything about what was the minister's concern. The Minister of Finance opposed this law at a government meeting for a very simple reason: the debtor is also a state and many people are suing the country. At the rate of late interest rates and, let's say, even the so-called limitation of the work of the public defence, if, of course, you sue the country and get a late interest claim that is not limited to the level of the principal, it is currently the best financial investment in Slovenia. And she's safe. Well, of course, Mr Justice Minister and Mr Finance Minister obviously had different opinions on this in the Government. The Minister of Justice's opinion prevailed. And in this National Assembly, unfortunately, with a virtually 95 percent of us have not adopted such a law. When this law was adopted, experts in this area found how different the January 2007 solution is from the 2002 solution. And how conflicted this solution is with the government's intent not to have any judicial backlogs. That is why the veto of the Council of State is justified. At the meeting of the Committee, Mr Minister and Secretary of State argued that Austrian law, German law and other rights do not know this issue. Of course they don't know him. In German law and the German judiciary, such matters are resolved in a swift manner. In Austrian law, however, there is a solution: interest may go to the principal's height, but only when the court says something about it or on the basis of the creditor's request does it trigger and requires this procedure. In Anglo - Saxon law, and in American law, the situation does not arise because when late interest rates exceed the principal, much earlier there is a basis for the so - called personal bankruptcy. And the situation today in Slovenia is very simple. We have many so-called, you call them, guilty debtors. The debtors are guilty, they must be punished, so it is right that late interest rates go beyond the capital. Well, I leave aside that creditors and debtors are each 50 percent likely to be entitled either to repayment of late interest or to default, depending on what the result of the dispute will be in court. Well, just because someone's suing someone in court doesn't mean the defendant's guilty doesn't mean it's up to the court to decide. I'm leaving this aside. However, it is unacceptable that you have enforced the legal solution that you will now have if you vote against the veto of the State Council, even by finalizing that the legal late interest rates will pass because the judiciary does not work and because, of course, the judicial backlogs will remain. I therefore propose, Mr Justice, Members of Parliament and Members, that we do not reject the Council of State; that we return to the 2002 solution, that the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice consider what it means to implement the 2002 resolution on the bond situation established before 2002, as this is also a possible constitutional solution. Indeed, today the Minister has said that any solution is constitutional, but a possible constitutional solution is that legitimate late interest rates for all transactions do not go over the capital and this does not happen when we have a functioning legal state. Therefore, today we are not just discussing the legal late rate of interest, today we are discussing whether in the philosophy of the Republican ruling coalition there is also concern for the debtor and whether you believe in, for the first time, the independence of the judiciary and whether you will ensure, as you promise, that the judicial backlogs will be resolved and that normal transactions will be resolved in bond relations within a few months. In this case, there will never be a need for legal late interest rates to pass the bulk. Therefore, it is not necessary to have this standard in the bond law, since this standard has been established since Roman times. I'm not a lawyer myself, I'm an economist myself, and I'm an economist -- in the end, this is just this: when someone lends a thousand euros to someone, that's usually the problem, the debtor. But when someone lends 10,000 euros to someone and waits ten years and this debt increases from 10,000 to 20, 30, 40 thousand euros, then it is usually the problem of the creditor and not the debtor. For this reason, I believe that, in bond relations, and above all in dispute resolution, it is necessary to ensure efficiency, but not simply to apply something in Slovenian practice that we had at the time of hyperinflation. The times of hyperinflation have passed forever, at least so I hope, at least that's what some ministers say. Therefore, this standard, as proposed by the Government in January 2007, is not necessary. 18 years is what the former Council of Executives proposed, and a law was enacted, which, of course, allowed late interest rates to go over the capital. And I thought those times had passed, but they didn't. The philosophy of this government is that debtors must be punished, even if they are not owed anything. In the SD, we're going to support the veto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u29	Good-bye! Presidents, Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS Club, when we re-vote on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bond Law, we stress that we will not support the law, so we will attach a veto to the Council of State. In fact, in the Liberal Democracy, we welcome the veto of the State Council, which gave us Members the opportunity to reconsider whether or not we are going to uphold the law. Once again, on the basis of the re-assessments, the awareness of many cases - in fact, we were not aware of this at the time when the law was being examined, and the government and the proposer were not particularly aware of this at that time - so I also believe that we will reconsider what has been said in today's debate and, I believe, we will restorate the conviction that the law that has already been passed and that we will be re-declaring today can be lost for a lot of people from Slovenia, i believe, 360,000 debtors. The current regulation, when the rule that interest ceases to flow when they reach the principal of the so-called rule "not ultra-alterum tantum" is applied both to late interest and to contractual interest, although it is supposed to have a completely different function, is not unconstitutional. This is how the Constitutional Court decided in its decision of 15.3. this year. This is a regulation that depends on the legislator, that is, this national assembly. Whether we are going to make a difference between late and contractual interest is therefore up to us and how sensitive we are to people's hardships, in this case to the plight of debtors, and how much we feel about the social welfare of those individuals when they are most needed in this case. More than the proposal for regulation in this case, the duality of the government and, consequently, of the National Assembly will be in sight. In response to the constitutional assessment - we said earlier that the Constitutional Court had decided by decision 15.3.2007 - the government wrote: "This is how the bond code should reintroduce to our legal order one of the safeguards to prevent the amount of interest accrued from creating a disproportionately binding relationship between creditors and debtors." Thus, the Government then explained the reasons for objecting to the proposal for a constitutional assessment. Hence, she acknowledged and agreed to this and felt that the late interest should not exceed the principal. The opinion was then also joined by the National Assembly or the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which stated that it was not such a difference as to require a different regime. If, not so long ago, the Government has talked about protecting the debtor from disproportionate amounts of accrued interest, today it has changed its opinion and we listen to how it is necessary to nail and punish the debtor for payment non-discipline, perhaps even justified in some cases, but not in many cases. And especially not because we know that this only increases the inability to pay. The Ministry has not bothered to look at the content behind why so many debt relations arise. Such a high number of debtors cannot cover only "barab", under the indications to be punished for financial discipline, but the real economic and social situation in the country where people simply cannot pay debts, especially when the interest exceeds the principal several times. In the LDS, we therefore do not support the regime when late interest runs all the way to payment of obligations, even if they have already exceeded the principal, so, as I have announced, we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Nice greeting also on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. In the New Slovenia Group, we will once again support the bill; therefore, we do not support the veto of the State Council. Following the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Bond Code last month, creditors obtained a correction of the current system with regard to the applicable interest and could say that creditors were placed in an equal position from an unequal position. The veto of the Council of State has led us to discuss once again the correctness of the decision of this assembly and in the New Slovenia Group of Members it is surprising that the representatives of the Council of State were not at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as they are not at the meeting of the National Assembly today. For reasons of veto, the Council of State stated that citizens are in an unequal position because of the law adopted, that the principle of the fairness of bond relations should be violated and that these changes should be inconsistent with the legal regime. According to the New Slovenia Group, the State Council's statements are not based on reality and are not on real soil. The adopted law provides that interest shall cease to flow when the sum of interest outstanding reaches the principal for the contractual interest, while interest on late interest shall continue to flow. The function of one and the other is completely different and different, so it is appropriate to treat each other differently. In Slovenia, there has been a lot of talk, there has been a lot of talk, there is a lot of financial discipline, but in fact there are no precise data on its dimension and its impact on the most sensitive economic operators, especially in the minds of entrepreneurs of individuals and small companies. Of course, the impact of financial non-discipline is also very great on large creditors. Surely one of the reasons for financial non-discipline is also a low business culture, and the impact is also long-lasting and often ineffective, especially in the past, the judicial system and enforcement procedures. The debtor must do everything in bond relations, according to the New Slovenia Group, to prevent any late interest from occurring. It is therefore important to emphasise that the function of one interest and another is different. In this case, late interest does not have the function of compensation for the use of foreign money, such as in the case of contractual interest, but primarily has a penal function for non-payment. Debtors often expected that the long-term judicial proceedings would lead to the expiry of the procedure itself, which often also affected the decline of small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, the loss of jobs. We believe that this chain reaction is a hardship for economic societies, and this is not in the spirit of the social state - which is the opposite of what the representatives of the State Council justify. Anyone who is in a business relationship must accept certain obligations. In bond law, there is a principle of integrity and honesty and obligations to fulfil obligations; therefore, if there is a debt, it must be paid but not counted as a write-off. In fact, I am surprised by the performance by my colleague, Mr SD, from the SD Group of Ambassadors, and during the period that my colleague, Mr Cvikl, mentioned that he was led by his former client as well as by the current party, during the period of the liberal and social government, as he was named by his colleague, there were the most judicial setbacks. From 1994 to 1997, it has been statistically demonstrated that during this period there have been most judicial backlogs, as a result and with various indiscretions at the time of the adoption of individual laws, as well as a lot of financial and payment non-discipline. Regrettably, in the view of Squill, the Liberal-Social Government has not established the appropriate mechanisms, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u32	Madam Ambassador, allow me to see you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u33	create appropriate support in the courts [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u34	Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u35	so that these procedures can run effectively. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u36	Madam Ambassador!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u37	Mr. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u38	I would only warn you, my colleague Squeaks is not in the hall to discuss this in your presentation from the Group's point of view to a discussion with a colleague who is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u39	No, because I think Comrade Squeakle listens carefully and will respond to that. I am therefore pleased that this government has taken concrete steps to remedy the judicial backlog. These concrete measures have already shown their results in last year, with a 7% decrease in judicial backlog. So I am pleased that this government has also taken concrete action to amend individual legislation in a comprehensive manner. It has formed individual groups at the Ministry of Justice, including co-workers, external associates by lawyers, by the courts, and is planning changes, in particular to reduce backlogs and pay-discipline, which is indeed not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere in Europe, to a minimum. Above all, I think it is important to add, on this occasion, that the representatives of the judiciary, as well as the highest representatives of the judiciary, recognise both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance as positive measures, in particular in terms of the increase in resources under the budget in those items that are required to do so in order to enable the process to run more effectively. Because this was precisely the problem of the Squeaks' liberal-social government, that with the desire to mix certain procedures under the carpet, things do not run out as they should in a normal state of law. It seems important to me in particular that we reaffirm this law today, in particular to take into account and support the changes that this government is preparing to normalise the legal situation in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Please. However, I would warn you that I have warned the Member of Parliament, and I think that I cannot do more than warn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u41	Mr. Chairman! I am procedurally pointing out that you warned the Member of Parliament, but you did not warn her for the right reason. The real reason is that, at a time when Members speak or explain the views of the groups of Members, we have no right to dispute with anyone, not with individual Members, nor with the groups of Members who have appeared before us and who have given their views to the groups of Members. And here the Member has violated the rules of procedure, even though she is also the president of one of the working bodies of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that I have warned the Member of Parliament, I will proceed in accordance with the rules of procedure by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u43	Mr Swickl also cited similar statements on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and also on these discussions. Thus, in the context of the opinion and the position of the Group of Members, I can express this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u44	I'm sorry, I'm interrupting any further debate. I didn't give my word to anyone. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u45	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to give, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, the position we have taken to re-vote. At our previous meeting of the National Assembly, we adopted a new bond law, which had only one substantive change. This was about interest. The need to amend the provisions governing late and contractual interest was reflected both in the explanation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and other case law in the Republic of Slovenia. The adopted amendment to the Act deleted Article 376 of the Bond Code, which provided that interest ceases to flow when the sum of interest due and interest unpaid reaches the principal. The rule therefore applied to both contractual and late interest rates. The Law, however, provided that the contractual interest would cease to flow when the sum of the interest unpaid had reached the principal’s level. In our view, such a solution makes sense in the case of contractual interest. The contractual interest shall have a legal basis in the contract where, in the event that it is agreed, it may be relatively high, as the party taking the loan or taking any other legal action is normally in a subordinate position and must comply with the provisions on the contract interest. However, in the case of late interest, the solution to the capital interest limit as before the adoption of the novel does not make sense when late interest reaches the principal amount and, in accordance with the previous arrangement, ceases to run, in fact lose their role and purpose, which is an early obligation or obligation to fulfil their obligations. In addition, it should be pointed out that late interest is regulated and, from this point of view, the appropriate security of the weaker party is ensured. Here it is also worth mentioning what the Constitutional Court stated in one of the decisions: "Contract interest must be paid by the debtor because for a period of time he used the creditors' money." The debtor shall not be forced to pay, he shall pay them in any case and in the same absolute amount, irrespective of whether he will pay his debt in due time or late. However, through their criminal function, they force the debtor to pay the debt before paying the debt, the amount of late interest will be lower. This gives rise to a clear distinction between the two types of interest, which, in our view, is also a sufficient basis for such an arrangement as we have adopted with the amendment of the Bond Code. We agree, however, that in border social cases there may be a need for greater sensitivity of enforcement courts in individual cases. In the Slovenian People's Party, the adopted amendment of the Bond Code is still considered appropriate. For it allows late earnings to fulfil their basic functions, this is a criminal function. For this reason, we will not support the Council of State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Since Minister Dr. Sturm asked for the floor earlier, I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only briefly respond to some of the opinions expressed in the debate. As regards the duration of the proceedings - this is, indeed, indirectly linked to the topic that we are dealing with today, but we must not overlook that in this case, there are actually two judicial proceedings: the judicial procedure and the enforcement procedure. We must also not overlook the fact that there is a procedure between two entities, of which one may be a State, but in most cases not, they are entities that are autonomous, autonomous, and that these parties to the procedure can also delay this procedure, in particular in the enforcement process. At the Ministry of Justice, we are also preparing amendments to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance and on the enforcement procedure, which are aimed at substantially simplifying the process and thereby simplifying the enforcement procedure itself and reducing the implementation later. I am pleased to see that the debate held so far by Members, in particular Members who have challenged this amendment of the law, can understand as a positive sign that they will be willing to support changes in the enforcement procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you for your word, Madam President. If you'll allow me, at the outset, there's only one thought about what happened earlier in the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups. I think something has happened, perhaps not to look so terrible, but nevertheless, with respect for this esteemed assembly, something very, very terrible, even if it is the president of a working body. I think it has happened for the first time since we sat in this house for three and a half years or three years, that someone did not get up and thus showed appreciation for himself, self - evaluation of his abilities and disrespect for this congregation. I think that if the other Members start with the same practice when we don't get the word, we'll just sit on the microphone and crash on average, there'll be nothing good - not for this house, not for the respect of this assembly, not for the respect of this country. Therefore, I ask that you condemn such things harshly next time in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And it's not true that the warning is the only one, I'll say, business option. You also have others: take away the word, you can turn off the microphone, you can also remove it from the hall when it comes to such underestimation of colleagues and colleagues who are sitting here. As far as the law is concerned. The law came on the initiative - or I'll start different. This country, I hope or believe, is still divided into three branches of government: judicial, executive and legislative. It's the branch that brought this marriage into this house. In my opinion or in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, because it is unable to regulate the Institute of Executives. That's all we're talking about today. And because of the incompetence of the judicial branch of power to beat people who live in this country, I find it completely inappropriate. In the Slovenian National Party, as you can probably understand from my initial speech, we will support the veto, saying we will oppose this law. As you yourself have said, Minister, before me, you are preparing a new proposal for a law on enforcement, which I believe is already being prepared today, as much as it says it will contribute to reducing judicial backlogs. It will be difficult to make statistics on how many of these laws are going in this direction, because I think that everyone you have proposed at the justice department is headed in this direction and there are no results. Unfortunately there are no people, and beating people to get you to achieve some of your goals, I find it completely inappropriate. The backlogs until you get to the root of them, and if you want to do it in your way with a stick - but not against people, but against those who cause them, they will not be reduced. The rest of what you're going to say here is pure deception, pure lies, pure nonsense, and everyone who follows you will say no shame, but do no good. Not this country, not these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u50	Mrs. Milan Petek has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Clavor. So in the election I see now in the National Assembly, I do not believe that it is possible to convince the coalition Members, for the opposition, I do not doubt that - I am sure that we will vote in favour of the veto or against the law. Unfortunately, it is impossible to convince those who are not, because only voting actually does not provide an opportunity to substantiate the basis for decision-making by cases that facilitate decision-making. In this case, it is almost a battle with mills on the wind to explain some examples of how people's fates, businesses, individuals are written because of the law, because of the debt relations that have arisen because interest has flowed over the capital. We have all received as Members some of these cases, I would like, at least for the public, to mention one that we will know what has happened to us or what has happened to some of us in the past period. This is the case when the bank granted a loan to the borrower in 1990, at the time it was worth 17,000 German Marks, today it was about 8,500 Euros, the repayment period was 10 years, the interest rate was composed of a real interest rate plus the then inflation rate of R+TOM, and the borrower had to set up a deposit of 4,285 Marks in order to secure that payment, which was relatively high compared to the debt or the loan he was claiming. In this case, this natural person has repaid the loan for 4 years and has simply failed to repay the loss of employment. The problem is not that it has not been able to pay; the problem is that the bank has simply kept silent, has not enforced what every business entity should have, but has obviously been speculatively waiting for a relatively long period of two years, with the first warning and later with the third warning in 1996 to enforce this claim, which has already gone far beyond the period when each normal master would have done so with his own resources. Let me not describe what was going on and how it happened in the courts, how the defendant, in this case the debtor, was, in fact, almost without the possibility of succeeding against such lawsuits, at the end of the time when the action or decision was legally binding, this debt, as I said before, was now EUR 8,500. So the situation shows what was going on under the conditions of high inflation and how this institution, such as the bank, could be mobilised. So, this was the best investment of funds, better at that point or actually not so far. And such cases are a set of cases, such as those cited both for individuals and for many businesses, which should also be judged from the social point of view, in view of these points in today's case, in today's decision-making, because I believe that this is one of the foundations of our country, which is and is going to be a social state. It is interesting, however, how this law came into being, since, after hearing and hearing that debtors had started to refer to the courts in 2002, with requests that their proceedings should be concluded in accordance with a decision of the Court or under the Bond Code, and because the courts were obviously, on grounds or too many applications for such resolution or for any other reason, not satisfied with this, they submitted an application to the Constitutional Court for the assessment of the Bond Code. So, as if now this judicial branch of power is the one who has to strike at the debtors, instead of actually dealing primarily with what is appropriate to the judiciary, taking into account the opinion or judgment of the Constitutional Court and acting as the debtors expected, this has encouraged the drafting of the law that we have on the table today and with which the principle of "ultra alterum tantum" is deleted and we are here again and again, what we are talking about today. For this reason, we believe that it is also important to consider the coalition Members whether it should be a veto of the Council of State and seek a solution or in amending legislation in those areas or in that legislation, which can do so differently, rather than amending the bond code as one of the key basic acts; fundamental laws that should actually be the basis for all others, and this is "sacred letter", if you want for lawyers, for law, for individuals, for businesses or for society as a whole. That's why I once again appeal: secure the veto! You will do much less damage than the damage that will be suffered by those who will have to pay enormous amounts or expenses under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Unlike the last debater who had actually discussed the content itself, the previous debate disappointed me a little because she had been in a totally unproductive conflict between some and others, when in the presentation of her views someone was extremely critical of the current government and when later someone else critically marked the previous government and it was marked as unacceptable and with different criteria, it was obvious that the presentation of the views of both sides was judged. And after the first speaker metaphorically mentioned among others, how should the government use a stick, but not against people, but against those who have caused this situation one can ask, can those who have caused it not be people? Or are they Martians? I think the debate, as told by my predecessor, is real. Well, we have to discuss things. We can have different opinions here. The fact is that the bond rule is such that the debt-supply relationship must be treated in such a way that the creditor is certainly protected in this relationship to recover its claim and clearly the rule must also be corrected to the debtor. And this is the case where we have contractual and late interest on two different categories of interest that we cannot evaluate in this particular segment. And if the interest is late, then it is right and so is the established position in most of the European Union countries that interest on late interest should not stop with the achievement of the principal as with contractual interest, for in this case the creditor would certainly be injured. It is clear that this will happen in exceptional cases where the procedure will not be completed until late interest reaches the core, but given that in exceptional cases this will happen, it is also right that this regulation preserves the possibility of the continuation of late interest or the continuation of late interest. It doesn't matter who the debtor is, whether it's a country or anyone else. The system shall be the same for all those on the debtor's side or on the creditor's side. However, we understand, or understand very much ourselves, certain difficulties that have actually arisen in practice and that may also occur in practice in the future, and these problems certainly show listening and trying to find a solution to these problems. However, in my opinion, this cannot be a way of determining that late interest runs even after it reaches the principal, so that this provision is otherwise regulated, but it is possible to regulate it in other rules. Above all, here I am referring to the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, but perhaps also to some other relevant rules. Accordingly, we have also prepared a proposal or initiative in the Parliamentary Group at the Ministry of Justice to regulate these matters. In particular, there are cases where the claim is not a clear claim, where the claim is not questionable, but those claims that may be doubtful. In practice, there are claims that are questionable, and in these cases, given that there is a delay in punishment and the debtor is aware that in these cases he will be able to pay substantially more than today’s worth of the claim, but the claim is doubtful, but even though he considers the claim to be unfounded, he pays it in order to avoid a high amount that would then be followed, particularly if this procedure is prolonged. And in these cases, it seems wise for us to allow, in this case, a questionable claim that the debtor could deposit this amount, but not in court, but that this amount would be deposited in a bank or in another financial institution where the funds would be nobled, just as the deposits were noble. And after so many years and so many years of legal solutions in court proceedings, this bank would be obliged to pay those funds to the one who could do it in justice. As a result of the nobility of these assets, no one would have been harmed and the debtor would not have been punished and would not have decided to pay a questionable claim, but would have deposited that amount and waited for the outcome of doubtful justice. However, where the debt-supply relationship is beyond doubt, it is clear that any delay in the procedure must be sanctioned. So, I believe, and also in the Group of Members, that we would try to resolve such a situation, but not in the Bond Code, but in the Law on Enforcement and Insurance or in another relevant law, which should be regulated, amended and allowed to do so in this sense. However, the Bond Code is not a place where this could be resolved, so I consider that the veto is unfounded and that this matter must be regulated in the manner prescribed in this Act. I will therefore renew my support for the law against which the State Council has imposed a veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Well, in these discussions that I have listened to before, I have been struck by the fact that some want to show that this change in law goes to punish the debtors, that the debtors are guilty, and that, as one of the colleagues has literally stated, we want to punish them, even though they are not owed anything. It is not that we want to punish anyone, but if someone fails to meet their accepted, agreed, contractually agreed obligations, then it is logical that others, because of this particular problem, cause certain damage and also wants some compensation because someone is using his money, his funds, to make up for it. In view of this aspect, in the existing regulation, I would have felt that, as far as inequality is concerned or in a more or less favourable situation, that the creditor was in a less favourable position at this point, because the debtor was not in compliance with these obligations without having been able to influence the creditor in any way. I also cannot agree that the law is changing because this government would live in the belief that the rule of law does not work or that it will not work in the future. If we know that most of the delays occurred during the period of another government, if we know that the lawsuits that Slovenia is losing in European courts have their origin in another period, then we probably cannot build a veto on such arguments. I agree that the situation in 2007 is completely different than it was in 2002. We have a much lower interest rate, inflation is incomparably lower, and even the backlogs themselves have decreased significantly over the last two years and a few months at the same time. Therefore, it is virtually impossible, in my opinion, for the practice of overcoming late interest rates to exceed the capital. And this legal change actually protected that last one, but if ever it did happen, at least in my opinion, as long as this government is concerned that the courts and other authorities will act in a current manner, that it should not come to this. Therefore, I do not think that, because of all of this, I see any legitimate reasons for supporting the veto, and I will therefore once again support this law with this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u56	Mr. Milan Squeakle, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u57	I replicate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which says that the Member has stated the debate of one of the previous Members and I do not think he understood me. We do not oppose or abolish late interest, Mr Member. Late interest rates, you said that we object to late interest rates. We don't object. Article 380(2) of the Bond Law, which states that the interest rate on late interest rates is 8% per year, does not terminate here unless otherwise specified by a special law. No, we are opposed to the fact that by voting on the State Council, a solution will be put in place that will increase the sum of late interest rates through the capital. And that's the key content. And it was not just us who opposed it, and the Ministry of Finance also opposed it for very clear reasons. In the next debate, I will also discuss why this veto of the State Council needs to be maintained in connection with the changes in enforcement procedures and not confirmed by the majority of the 46 members of the ruling coalition. And I think we need to be very careful here. We just don't want to go into the practice that was enacted in 1989.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. I would like to go back to the implementation that was launched at the beginning of the debate so that there is no doubt about what we can or should not discuss when presenting our views. I myself assess the presentation of the Group's position as the conclusion of any legislative procedure, in this case, and the definition of the starting points and opinions that have been in this process, both to the origins of the Government, both to the starting points of the coalition parliamentary groups, as well as to the origins of the opposition parliamentary groups. I would ask that for all those who feel that this debate was not already under way on the Committee, they should read on page 4 of the report when it says, inter alia, that some members felt that late interest could be exceeded by the rule of law or because of lengthy judicial proceedings. And I spoke about this in my presentation of the views of our Group of Members, and I have only updated the description of the previous Government with the name that Mr Squeakl highlighted today in the presentation of the positions. So that there would not remain a shadow of doubt as to the position I have presented. I would like to reiterate my support for the amendment and the amendment of the bond code, because I believe that the government has drawn up an appropriate proposal, in particular a proposal that is legally justified, as well as a proposal that solves problems that have also arisen in practice. Therefore, I see no reason to support today's veto of the State Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's your turn to speak. That's why it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. First, let me briefly answer what has been said. I am very glad that the previous government, which ruled from 1992 to 2004, was liberal, was social. And I think it's good that we had a social-liberal government. The monument Hribar said a few days ago that unfortunately we were not sufficiently social or liberal and that we were not able to change the wrong denationalisation law, but, of course, these are mistakes of the past governments. What is crucial in this law, and what is crucial in this law is the intensification of this rule and this rule is - I call it republican for very simple reasons, because of course it does not want to lead by example, but when we adopted the Law on Public Servants a few days ago, it leads with a stick, with detectives. Look what you're about to legalize. I quote: "When hyperinflation occurred in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, there was a law amending the Bond Relations Act, the Official Gazette of the SFRJ number 57, 1989; in Article 1 ZOR-B, which amends Article 277 of the ZOR by replacing it with the following paragraph: "The debtor who is late in fulfilling the monetary obligation owes, in addition to the principal, a late interest rate set by the federal law." It is said not to limit, but "the interest rate at the interest rate determined by federal law". In the same Official Journal of the SFRJ as ZOR B, the Late Interest Rate Act, which stipulates in Article 1, paragraph 1, "A debtor who is late in fulfilling a monetary obligation shall pay the amount of the debt" - I stress - "by the time of payment of the late interest at the level of the fixed rate" - it is said that interest up to the time of payment of late interest at the level of the fixed rate is equal to the monthly National Bank of Yugoslavia, increased by 20%. I don't know if that's 20 percent or 20 percent points, but like it says, it's 20 percent. So we have hyperinflation, every month, the enforcement of the increasingly higher escalator rates that you've increased by 20%, and therefore, of course, the situation where the late interest goes through the capital. This arrangement was in force unchanged, except that the Interest Rate Act then replaced this National Bank of Yugoslavia with some other interest rates and applied until 1 January 2002. Why until 1 January 2002? That's when we concluded negotiations to join the European Union. More or less it was clear that before the end of the 2004-2006 financial perspective we would enter the European Union, more or less we had concluded negotiations in the area of monetary and economic union, and of course Slovenia expected to enjoy the well-being of the normal economic environment after joining the European Union. The environment in which interest rates are no longer domestic R is said to be inflation in the past month or average inflation in the past months, but the interest rate based on expectations - the euro pound - today is, I don't know, about 4% of the point these days, because some low inflation is reflected by about 2% of the point and because it wants to limit the relatively warm global and European economy. And that's when it came into force on 1 January 2002, the bond law, the code that re-arranged the issue of late and contractual interest rates. First, in the second paragraph of Article 308, he said: "The interest rate of late interest shall be 8% of the year unless otherwise specified by law." In this regard, we have also adopted something in connection with European legislation or the adoption of the euro. The text no longer distinguished economic and non-economic contracts according to the rate of interest, in short, we came into the situation that we said in law, the time had come for interest rates, both contractual and late interest rates, not to go over the capital. And this was established at the time of the social, liberal, liberal-democratic government. Dr. Drnovšek was then, of course, the president of this government. And almost three years after the change of power in January 2007, we return to the 1989 situation. I said in the debate earlier as a representative of the parliamentary group: at about 10% of the late interest rate, it is only possible in one case that late interest rates go over the principals - when the judicial system does not work. I would be pleased if the Minister would explain very carefully what changes he intends to make in the enforcement procedure. I hope not those of whom you spoke a few days ago, some of whom you said, "It's impossible," even Mr. Minister yesterday, "that someone is using ten, twelve court proceedings." You know, we also have fast courts. And we also have the economic swift courts in the world and the enforcement procedure, which will mainly follow economic principles, which will solve the problem of both creditors and debtors, assuming that both of them are 50% likely to be right in the dispute and then to count the facts. In this case, of course, I will support such changes to the enforcement procedure, and in this case there will be no reason for the situation you wish to legislate at any time today. And it is not the case, Members and Members, that in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as reported by the Finances in January, Minister Bajuk as Minister of Finance tried to stop Mr Sturm. In fact, we're forgetting one very important thing. The state is also often unjustifiably sued. And when the state has a bad lawyer, then the state can make a lot of money, even after unnecessary wages. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance objected by arguing that the change in the Ministry of Finance does not seem to be fair to the debtor, but at the same time it would have serious budgetary implications, since it may lead to a considerable amount of late interest on the part of the State concerned. These were the reasons of the Minister of Finance after the Finance Officer's report, I think it was January 19th. The fundamental question for the Minister here is what we are going back to. Why we are returning to 1989, why you could not accept the opportunity offered by the Constitutional Court, and that is that this new principle applies to all debtors, including those due before 2002. You know, don't quote me now on the explanation of the Bond Code, where one of the authors says it was a mistake. The will of this national council was that the time had come for interest not to go over the capital. You know, if previous governments had listened to bankers, they would never have abolished TOM, the basic interest rate, which is in fact past inflation, would still have programmed inflation, they would never have slipped peacefully into a normal European situation. We are in the euro area, and we are the only country in the euro area that wants to legitimize an issue that is extremely controversial because it assumes that we have hyperinflation in Slovenia. Because you are enforcing legislation from the times of the Federal Executive Council and the executive measure of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, which is at Topcider, by the way, the printing as much as was necessary for anyone, including the State, to pay late and any other interest. That is why, of course, the warnings of civil society, Mrs Tinca Vidmar, who wrote to all Members of the Parliament, to the National Assembly, to the Minister, wanted to talk about this on the Internal Policy Committee, but the honourable President did not give her the floor. The Council of State is entitled to this veto. We made a mistake in January for all Members and Members of Parliament who voted in favour of this law. The error was based on an inadequate explanation by the Ministry of Justice, it was, if I am not mistaken, even a reduced procedure, and we made a mistake that can be corrected today. But we can only correct it by deciding what kind of government you want to be - the Republican government - whether you want to believe that the debtor and creditor are right every 50% and that in enforcement procedures it should be resolved quickly and then the situation where late interest rates are to go over the capital will simply not be. Therefore, this provision and the veto vote are not appropriate. But, of course, you now have a majority in Parliament and it is your responsibility. However, I hope you are aware that when you press the button, you force yourself from the euro area into the hyperinflation zone. This is the logic of the law, as proposed by the Ministry of Justice, and that is why I believe that the Minister of Finance was against it. If I understand, the two ministers from the same party are, so I hope that you have also had some party coordination on this matter, but I simply cannot believe that we have the insistence here that the veto of the State Council be proclaimed, but I can only understand this because it is only because we need those who are smaller that we simply submit to the law that is unjust to them, because only if the state does not act responsibly, the situation where late interest rates exceed the capital. And the last. I hope that someone will explain to us today, a very interesting question will be what will happen if the law is vetoed if the law enforces what interest rates will account for late interest rates for the period 2002-2007. How the courts will do this - of course, nothing has been said today. And nothing has been said about the more serious problem within this law, which is the change and dilemma of the linear and conformal accounting of interest rates, but of course I believe that in this case it would be good for the Ministry of Finance to sit here with us, so I do not expose these dilemmas. I propose, Mr Justice Minister, that you propose to the Members of the ruling coalition that we submit ourselves this time to the Council of State. The State Council was this time, I'll say not smarter, but more informed than the National Assembly. However, the Government is usually the one who informs the National Assembly, so I regret that we made this mistake in January. We have a chance to fix it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary Sturm has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am immediately responding to some of the questions raised by the honourable Member in his debate. First of all, what interest will be paid after the adoption of this law, which I hope will be adopted, of course from the day of the amendment. For those who will run until this day, but the previous legislation applies, that is unequivocal. Then let me just stick to what arrangements we are now establishing - one that is established, which is predominantly established in EU countries. And we are abolishing an arrangement that was inconsistent or - I will not say inconsistent - that was one that other EU countries did not know. That's an indisputable fact. Let me also say that the honourable Member, when he spoke of the court being able to judge who is right, and of course because of this they are due, did not take into account what I said in the debate earlier; that all these proceedings are for two trials. The legal procedure shall determine who is right and, in the enforcement procedure, shall no longer determine where he is right, but shall refer to the fulfilment of an obligation for which the court has previously established in the legal procedure that it is necessary to do so. Thus, there is no longer this dilemma in the executive procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u65	If I understand what the Minister has said, we will have three situations in this decade: the debtors will owe more than the principal by 2002; the debtors of the 2002-2007 period will limit their debt to the country or anyone else to the head level and the debtors will again owe more than the principal after 2007. If it's not an unequal treatment of debtors in a decade, I really don't know what it is. So, Mr. Minister, I hope you are, we can look at the magnetogram, but so I've heard, we're going to have three different situations in one decade. I want to know who can account for interest rates! Because look what's gonna happen. Someone owed something in 1997, in 2003 the debt grew to the height of the principal, then the debt increase stopped, and in 2007 the law was enforced and will - what? This debt started growing again over the top? I publicly call on all debtors who have reached the core in the period 2002-2007 to pay the principal. Mr Minister, you have said here, in my opinion, something which is at least constitutionally disputed that in the first decade of this millennium we will have a situation of three different cases, depending on what law has ever been in force, because the constitutional decision has reached out to this very issue that in 2002 the debtors before 2002 are in an unequal position with the debtors who take up obligations after 2002, so the Constitutional Court of Law has sent the legislator to settle the matter. We assumed that you would propose that those before 2002 would be subject to the same fact as it was established; therefore, that the principal would be on the ceiling, so that the amount of late interest rates would be on the ceiling. So please, Mr Minister, if you explain this, in particular how this will work in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I can't put a replica on the replica, Mr. Secretary. That is why I say that all the speakers who have been reported, including the call to the representative of the Government, have been given the word you wanted. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm opening the application. In this circle, Mr. Secretary, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. First of all, it must be clarified that no law in our country can impose a reverse act of law, i.e. the principle of retroactivity, to which the honourable Member implicitly suggested in his debate. It is said that the law in this respect cannot apply to the reverse and to the retroactive effects. And since I have a word, let me respond to something else. That is true of all those who are present, perhaps even those who are watching us. This government continues to be credited with being Republican. I am proud to say that this is a republican government, but of course it was the former republican government, because it says in the constitution that we live in the Republic. I don't know what it means to describe the previous governments differently, because maybe they weren't monarchy or anything else when they were partying. So I ask that we do not define ourselves better with this strange nickname in this House. I suggest we use terms that are consistent with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would like to tell the panellists that the time for discussion is no more than 5 minutes. Mr. Milan Squeakle, you're on. Mr. Rudi Veršnik is the only one before you, so I give him my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you, President, for your word. A lovely greeting on my behalf to all present! When we walk on the ground in our constituency, at least I face a major problem called financial non-discipline. I hope we all agree that this financial non-discipline is some kind of 'cancer wound', especially for a small economy for individual entrepreneurs, and I think it is worth taking every step to protect these, in fact, powerless people. And I think we have here today on the scale of two partners, the debtor on the one hand and the creditor on the other. And in this case, we weigh who will be given the opportunity to make a claim or to receive, on the one hand, a payment, or on the other hand we will allow the debtor some credit rating or leave it up to some limit, and then he or she will be able to laugh in front of the debtor in a mustache. I think that the former, so-called social government or I don't know what kind of government was largely protecting the debtor, and that's why these debtors were making a lot of use of the situation and leading to extremes, leaving the ship and going for their own profit, and the creditors were hunting and looking for their claims in different courts; we know where they came from - not far. Of course, those who have used this option very skillfully, we are reading through magazines today, they have become the richest Slovenians, and I think that there are quite a few of them that have been on these lists are very knowledgeable about these manipulations. As for the contractual interest, I don't think they're controversial. At a time when we are negotiating some business, we are negotiating these matters, and everyone can calculate in his own business that if we are late, he will have to pay these interest. But I think late interest is an instrument that forces the debtor to stick to a deal. Those times that were paradise - I think they were paradise - for such kinds of manipulators, they were gone. I think that this government does nothing but behaves in a European way - because we are in Europe and we must act in this way, and we must also bring European practice into ours, unfortunately, too much Balkan space. This measure, these measures, this proposal is nothing more than to protect the creditor, which I think is right. On the other hand, measures for a faster trial shall be implemented. I think that the measures have been taken in this direction, but we all know that the matter is not simple, that much has been done precisely with this government, so that these measures can be enforced to reduce delays. I think that this measure is also leading in the right direction, so I will also be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u71	I have already said today that I am not a lawyer, so I have been consulted by a colleague, and I will quote to the former Constitutional Judge the entire 155th section of the law, which speaks of the prohibition of retroactive application, a pardon of the Constitution, which speaks of the prohibition of the return of legal acts. Article 155, first paragraph: "Laws, other regulations and general acts may not have an effect to them back." I agree with that, that was the first part of the truth that Mr Minister has said. The second paragraph is more important: "Only the law can stipulate that individual provisions of its provisions have a retroactive effect if the public benefit so requires and" - condition at the same time - "if this does not prejudice the rights acquired." The dilemma that arises when the Bond Code was amended in 2002, which said that late interest rates cannot go through the capital, this provision did not apply to debtors prior to 2002. Therefore, the Constitutional Court said that the problem here and the law proposed by the Government should solve this problem. And the fundamental question is what is the public benefit. Mr Justice Minister, former Constitutional Judge, is the first time he has forgotten the second paragraph of Article 155 of the Constitution, which is one problem. But what is public benefit? Is it in the public interest that we will have three legal conditions during the first decade of this millennium? To the debtors by 2002 the interest will be able to go through the capital, the 2002-2007 debtors will be in a better position than the debtors after 2007, if the veto is voted on. That's the problem with this marriage. And I say that it is in the public interest at least that the period after 2007 applies to the same period as in the period 2002-2007, but I suppose if an analysis is made of how much debt there is before 2002 and if it is found that this does not affect the acquired rights of creditors, it would also be possible to look at the situation before 2002. I call this government a Republican government because it was formed by the Assembly of the Republic. However, I thought that this was in line with the French principles of the Republic: democracy, freedom, equality and so on, but also politics, also this policy, which puts people in a worse position after 2007 than people who were in debt during the period 2002-2007, is the classic American republican policy of the Reagan type. And that is why I use this expression, and I am pleased that the social, liberal, liberal and democratic government in 2002 abolished the situation that was established at the time of hyperinflation. That is why I conclude: I agree that the principles of retroactivity do not apply, as Article 155(1) of the Constitution states, but the second paragraph clearly states - if this requires public benefit and does not prejudice the rights acquired. And our thesis is always like this, you're not here protecting debtors, you're here protecting unwarranted creditors, and the dilemma is very simple. Creditors shall receive undue assets where the debtors are in a subordinate position due to the operation of the State when the proceedings are to be carried out for more than 8, 9, 10 years. Therefore, gentlemen, if you really believe your programmes to reduce judicial backlogs, then this provision of the Bond Code is not necessary, but it is necessary, on the basis of a constitutional decision, simply to say, we are now, five years later, also for debtors before 2002 to apply the principle that late interest rates should not go over the capital. That's all the content here, Mr. Minister, Mr. Former Constitutional Judge.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u72	Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. It's amazing what thoughts flow into my forerunner's head! As far as retroactivity is concerned, I do not know why the second paragraph would be more important than the first paragraph, because the first paragraph is the basis, the law cannot be applied back, but the second paragraph is an exception. So in exceptional cases this is possible, but the law must specifically allow this, in the event that it does not affect rights and so on, as you quoted. In this case, the law does not specifically stipulate that the law is retroactive in this case, so I do not know what we are talking about. The objectives of the law are clear: the law must seek to ensure that the creditor is paid as soon as possible and that the law forces the debtor to pay his or her obligation as soon as possible. That's clear. I mentioned earlier in my debate that I understand certain concerns that have arisen in the debate and also in the State Council's argument, but these concerns cannot be resolved by a bond law. Therefore, this request is unfounded. But I think these concerns could be resolved in another marriage. I said, in the law on enforcement and insurance or maybe in some other appropriate law. Because not all debtors are speculators. All debtors are not speculators. Speculators are not when the debtor considers that the claim requested or requested by a creditor is unfounded, but that in such cases the debtor is in a dilemma, or that, despite the fact that the claim is unfounded, that claim is paid, and only to avoid high late payment. This is happening in practice, and I think it would be good to resolve this in this case in the appropriate way, but not in this law, but in another law. In this case, which I said earlier, if I had the opportunity to deposit this amount in a bank or a financial institution and it would also have been nobled to maintain the real value, the enforcement procedure would have fallen out, because the amount would have been given to those who had succeeded and would have changed it - the enforcement procedure would not have been necessary in this case. But I wouldn't go into that detail. In short, these certain problems that exist can be solved elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u74	I'm closing the debate. The legislative vote will take place today, in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, within half an hour of the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item, this is on the exploratory proposal for a resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2007-2011. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a resolution. Mr. Magg has the word. Zinrajh, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u75	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We note that Slovenia is a safe country, but events and criminal acts at home and in the world again every day remind us that security is a good thing, which in itself is not self-evident. Therefore, to maintain a relatively high level of security in Slovenia, it is necessary to make an effort to achieve this objective that the draft resolution on the national programme for the prevention and repression of crime for the period 2007-2011 has been prepared. The draft resolution on the national programme sets out the reasons for its creation and sets out the objectives. The main objectives of the resolution on the national programme are to direct the efforts of the institutions of the State and civil society to create circumstances that will ensure the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia to stay and work in a secure environment and thus enable quality privacy and social life. He wants to reach out to people in Slovenia to feel even safer. The resolution highlights the planned and coordinated implementation of the activities of all those state institutions, civil society and citizens that can contribute anything to the control and reduction of crime. In particular, the importance of preventive activities is also identified, since prevention is a fundamental category of crime prevention and control. It is therefore important for the State to give adequate attention to preventing crime and to provide adequate financial resources. The core of the resolution on the national programme is the identification of the most important problems, including the causes and solutions and the specific objectives to be achieved. These are reflected in specific strategies or programmes with specific and concrete actors and participating, implementation deadlines and certain indicators for measuring performance. The national programme is based on an assessment of the situation in the field of crime prevention and control, based on an international comparison with the programmes of Spain, Finland, Sweden and the Canadian strategy, based on programmes of other ministries directly or directly linked to crime prevention, and based on analyses carried out, identified problems in the following areas: urban crime, property crime, economic crime, organised crime, drug, juvenile crime, domestic violence, environmental protection, fear of crime, assistance to victims, legislation change, interinstitutional cooperation, confiscation of property benefits and criminal policy. In order to carry out direct tasks, it is envisaged that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, within six months of the adoption of this resolution within the Ministry of the Interior, or more specifically within the Directorate of Police and other security tasks, establish a commission to prevent and suppress crime as an inter-disciplinary labour force. That Commission will be composed of eleven representatives, namely the President, the Vice-President, three members of public servants, ministries and bodies. Of the other six members, there are two members of non-governmental organisations, two professional public and two representatives of self-government local communities. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes by resolution to submit an annual report on the implementation of the resolution on the national programme of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, no later than 1 July of the current year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Chairman of the committee of Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar for presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye! At its 32nd meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a motion for a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2007 to 2011. Representative of the proposer, State Secretary of Mag. The Zinraj Bell presented principles, objectives and main solutions to the motion for a resolution in a supplementary explanation. In particular, he stressed that the motion for a resolution is prepared with a view to maintaining a relatively high level of security in our country and to directing the country and civil society to create circumstances that will ensure the people and the inhabitants of our country to live and work in a secure environment and thus enable quality privacy and social life. The motion for a resolution places particular emphasis on the planned and coordinated implementation of the activities of all those institutions, as well as civil society and citizens, which can contribute to the control and reduction of crime. In this part, however, it is also intended to promote the suppression of crime. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly initially pointed out the importance of taking their comments into account in the work of the proposed text when the participation of representatives of the State Council and the National Assembly in the framework of the coordination body was envisaged, but this was later amended accordingly with the amendment. Of course, these warnings regarding respect for the principle of the division of power have been given in particular. The further comment referred to the announced solutions to the motion for a resolution concerning the system regime in the field of criminal offences. Otherwise, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, the amendments which were tabled took due account of their comments. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the State Prosecutor's Office, who said that the Prosecutor's Office had participated in the drafting of the resolution itself and welcomed only the adoption of the motion for a resolution and stressed that their comments had already been made in the course of the debate and were also adopted and included in this motion for a resolution. In particular, this concerns the relationship between the prosecution and the police, the activities in the legislative field and the tasks of taking away the proceeds of the crime. In the debate, some amendments have been explained by the motions tabled. Regarding measures to improve economic crime prosecution, the view was expressed that they should also be based on an increase in the human resources structure and, similarly, on cybercrime, which will continue to grow in the future, according to the proposaler Paul Gantar. In the supplementary explanation, a representative of the motion for a resolution itself, the Secretary of State, explained that in our country already in 2003, a strategy for the management of economic crime had been adopted, setting strategic objectives with relevant programmes, and in line with this, the system of economic crime investigation units had been modified in the years ahead. On cybercrime, however, the Secretary of State said that they were aware of the problem and that they were already being dealt with by the police and that there was no need to increase jobs at the moment. The amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups were adopted and, at the end, the Committee voted on and adopted the entire motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present my views on the motion for a resolution. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Well, when we present the views of the members of the groups, let me mention for the introduction that the DeSUS Group is inclined to adopt this resolution on the national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime, among other things because it is not possible to remain only at the declaration level, at the level of strategic direction, which has already been done. And even now, when we adopt this national plan, we do not go all the way to the action plans themselves, but we are at some intermediate level, at some specific level, which will need to be complemented or clarified in individual action plans and at different levels. Thus, the national programme means the integration from general to our action activities, i.e. to the level of everyday life. At this level, deviantism, crime never and nowhere will be able to prevent or suppress completely, but it is important that, as the data show, we can be relatively satisfied with the situation we have now. So ambitions must be at least, what is, to maintain a relatively favourable state and where there is only strength, this security and sense of security, as we now record, increase. It is irrelevant whether we will have adequate preventive measures, i.e. some type of proactive inhibition, prevention measures, and whether we are able to adequately and effectively suppress current crime and deviantism. It is also important whether we will be able to establish a network that will provide for those who are taking a normal course on the sidelines, whether we are able to resocialise them or whether returnees will be able to do so, and this deviant practice will also be perceived in the future. In fact, as the motion for a resolution on the national programme assures us, it is a matter of maintaining a relatively good state of affairs, of continuing to condition the current declining trends in classical crime and of possibly better equiping ourselves with both human resources and knowledge to prevent the crime that is on the march, let us state that it is a more modern crime in various forms. It is likely that others will later talk a lot about these individual forms of crime, whether it is domestic violence, whether it is a criminal relationship to our environment, to nature, or whether it is a need to maintain a relatively good situation in the area of property protection and so on. But in the background of all of this or as the final goal is actually the quality of living, quality of life and well-being for all people. Without a sense of security, even a purely subjective one, and without real objective security, it would be really difficult to assert that the quality of our stay is increasing and that the well-being, the uplifting of prosperity is a reality for us. In doing so, there must be very clearly identified actors in the growth of prosperity and at the same time the decline in crime. Certainly the country has a very important influence and task here, but just waiting for state measures would certainly be too small. Local communities, and it may indicate that emphasis, are those who must and must make a lot of contributions. For all that we are talking about now is happening on a purely empirical, i.e. on some local, on a particular case limited to reality. That is why it is very good, we believe that through the national programme this dense network of various institutions, various measures, including the ability to resocialise those who stray from the path. Of course, it is necessary to mention that adequate resources are also needed to do so. All these measures, which are envisaged, including investments, the implementation of different programmes must be supported by financial means and possibly the worst part of this national programme. It is very loose, it does not leave the decision to provide funds to later measures or empirical, more action programmes. The level of this urban, local environment is also extremely important because there are some laws and the expected effects of these laws. Let me remind you of the law on public order and peace, reminding me of the law on how to ensure municipal registrarism or the law that we are now adopting regarding private protection. All of these structures will have to form a dense social network that will fill the space both in the local sense and in the time sense, as well as in the sense of social saturation, so that there is as little room for deviant practice as possible. In the DeSUS Group, we assess that the resolution on the national programme in this regard is well prepared, that it is relatively integrated, that it covers various, almost all the most pressing areas and that it also adequately identifies those responsible for implementing this programme in the everyday life. Therefore, because we believe that the programme is not only necessary but also good, we will also provide our support for the adoption of this resolution on national programmes for the repression and prevention of criminals.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Ms Maria Possonec has the floor on behalf of the national community.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u81	Nice greetings to all present. We have also examined the motion for a resolution on the national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime and consider it to be good. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime as a strategic and fundamental document setting out the objectives and principles for the successful prevention and suppression of crime. It provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, by 31 January 2007, establish a national programme for the prevention and suppression of crime. Thus, the resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme 2007-2011 aims to direct the efforts of the institutions of the State and civil society to create circumstances that will ensure the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia to stay and work in a secure environment and thus enable quality private and social life. We need to reach the point where people in Slovenia feel safe. The resolution on the national programme identifies key security areas relating to crime and its problems. It underlines the importance of the planned and coordinated implementation of all those activities of state institutions, civil society and citizens that can contribute in any way to the control and reduction of crime or minimise the possibilities and opportunities for the commission of crimes. I believe that youth crime and the fight against it could be dealt with in more detail and should be treated more thoroughly, because we believe that the most needs to be done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President; representatives of the Government, colleagues, colleagues. The National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime, based on the Police Act and the Resolution on the Prevention and Suppression of Crime, is now under consideration. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposed national programme, which is a good basis for achieving important objectives in achieving greater human security and property in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed national programme is based on the findings of the situation in specific areas of crime and, given the individual actual situation and the shortcomings identified, offers appropriate solutions to improve the situation and to better address individual forms of crime. Therefore, the measures must follow the objectives as shown in the material itself. This is a greater effectiveness in detecting offenders, reducing the number of violent acts committed by minors, reducing the time of detection of offenders, strengthening mutual cooperation between law enforcement authorities and other institutions, reducing crime in urban settings, providing better material and human resources conditions for preventing and suppressing economic and property crime, preparing convicts for inclusion in normal life, effective assistance to victims, reducing property offences. The emerging forms of crime, particularly in the case of economic crime, are constantly changing. The perpetrators of such crimes use increasingly sophisticated methods of work, are highly qualified and use the latest technological equipment in the field of information technology. Effective fight against this type of crime requires continuous professional training of criminals, who must be on track with the knowledge and methods of potential perpetrators of crime, as this is the only way to prevent and combat crime successfully. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that the national programme under consideration is appropriate and that it will be possible to achieve the objectives we all want on this basis. This is an increase in the effectiveness of crime prevention and control, which will directly improve the security of people and their property. That is why we will support the proposed national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u85	Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In March 2006, we discussed and adopted a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. At that time, in the Group of Social Democrats, we considered that the preparation and adoption of the resolution was of great importance to the country, but we had doubts whether the resolution was sufficient to reduce crime or whether it provided the necessary starting points to help reduce crime. Government representatives then comforted us that a national programme would be drawn up as soon as possible, which would be much more concrete than the resolution itself, defining the activities needed to achieve the objectives set by the resolution. The promised national programme is now ahead of us. When preparing this document, we forwarded some of our concerns, comments and proposals to the applicant, which concerned in particular an analysis of the situation that should cover the country's security assessment, the assessment of Slovenia's situation, which should take into account that Slovenia has become a full-fledged member of the EU, thus also changing the flow of people, capital and, last but not least, crime, and we had some suggestions on the methodology of the resolution. The comments were mostly accepted and entered into the document adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly for its consideration and acceptance. Unfortunately, neither the proposalant nor the Government has taken into account our comments on a more thorough treatment of corruption and clienteleism. We have proposed that corruption and clientism be dealt with in a special chapter. While the government briefly mentions corruption in the national programme, at the same time it notes that corruption is not a particularly pressing problem for us and refers to official statistics showing that the police have on average filed 37 criminal charges in connection with acts of corruption in the last five years. Nevertheless, it says that public research at home and abroad shows that there is a need to pay more attention to this problem. And that is what we are reminding ourselves of and why we believe that corrupt crimes are the most hidden, most sophisticated and are done by the most skilled people and that neglect of this fact and of these problems is by no means justified. That is why we are so much more surprised that the Government has not taken into account this call for specific treatment of corruption and clientism and that this part of crime, which includes corruption and clienteleism, is not dealt with in more detail in this document. For we are convinced that the post-privatisation period and the period of sale of state property are giving greater attention to practices that can also be linked to the conduct and acts of corruption and clientelism. And now we are back in this period, because at the same time we all advocate the country's withdrawal from business and at the same time we all know that this can be done in very different ways, including by allowing for adoption and corruption. And in our belief, the beliefs of Members and Members of the Social Democrats, it would therefore be appropriate to pay greater attention to this issue and to identify and prevent corruption and clientism in a timely manner, including because of the different views we have about the appropriate organisation of anti-corruption action, whether in a special commission or not, in our country. Furthermore, the problem in the Group of Social Democrats is that there are many reasons for the rise in any kind of violence, but that the motion for a resolution is under-emphasis on one of the fundamental reasons: this is the social situation of the group of people and the growing social disparities. It is important to know that, despite the fact that it is repeatedly stressed that the circle of people excluded from the perspective and feeling that their position and the position of their family is on the sidelines, that this circle is increasing, and that this is an important reason for crime to also arise, to increase domestic violence, among young people, and that it is spreading many times from the family and school to the streets. Therefore, part of our warnings is that much of the activity must focus primarily on preventive action in the field of youth violence, which has recently expanded in Slovenia, which has expanded the walls of educational institutions, which appears not only on the front pages of newspapers and television broadcasts, but the debate on it shows that we do not have the measures to reduce and prevent it. An important factor in reducing crime and related actions is, therefore, on the part of the Government and the other hand, to adopt rules and activities that will contribute to reducing social disparities, to reducing social exclusion, to increasing the prospects of all. Reducing social differences, prevention and education is a positive approach that can reduce crime to a bearable level, as Dr Petrovac also called in his opinion, which he forwarded in this motion for a resolution to the National Assembly. He also highlighted the issue of the execution of prison sentences and the rehabilitation of prisoners and drew attention to the vision of the construction of a mega prison in Ljubljana, which, as an expert, is convinced that this is not the right approach, that it is not an approach to the humane suspension of sentences, which would not only say, punish, but also act preventively on prisoners. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that violence is a serious social problem both in the economy, among young people, in the family, especially clientism and corruption, and that we must therefore treat it comprehensively. We hope and wish that the Government, the institutions and the individuals involved in the implementation of measures in specific areas of crime prevention and, in particular, the various types of violence, will begin to implement this resolution as soon as possible, that the deadlines will be maximum, that they will be achieved sooner and that we will be able to confront, on the basis of the reports that the Government will tell us, that this resolution, in particular, contributes to reducing crime and that we will be able to deal more successfully with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you, too. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellows and fellows, guests! Security is certainly one of the most important values of each individual and society in general, even in recent times when its importance is very, very much stressed. But let us begin with the introduction to the motion for a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the next four-year period. It says: "The Republic of Slovenia is a safe country, as confirmed by the Public Opinion Research Centre at the Faculty of Social Sciences in October 2006. At the same time, however, the objectives of this resolution are: "We want to reach people in Slovenia feeling safe." So it's a contradiction between the two statements. In the survey I mentioned earlier, 78% asked how safe they feel in the place where they live answered that it was safe, 36%, or 42%. The result, of course, is a very good starting point for the fact that when we receive the next report or when the next survey is carried out, that we can compare whether the level of safety has increased or decreased the sense of security in the Republic of Slovenia. Preventing crime must be an absolute priority of the state. However, it is important to note that the police or the Ministry of the Interior, while ensuring this, also ensures an adequate number of trained police officers and people involved in crime, not only that they are trained at the time they enter their work, but also that they are allowed to receive permanent education in some way to keep them trained. This is not explicitly recorded in the resolution. That the effectiveness of police activity and everything, we will say, must continue to be monitored by the side effects of this. That it should use relevant data to plan preventive activities and that the objective is, however, an increased level of crime investigation and detection. The Ministry of Justice must also develop an appropriate system to deal with minor crimes. The institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions must be updated, in particular they should be smaller, smaller in scope, so that we do not get university campuses for crime if we combine them and increase them. To put first and foremost the damage caused by criminal acts and, of course, to provide post-penal assistance to convicts, it is said that they are not forced back into any new situations where they will, of course, be able to use a known solution to their difficulties. You know, we're just people who stick to what we know and know. If I only touch juvenile delinquency in preventing crime, this is certainly linked to their social situation, their sense of prominence, or their peer circle, or their family circle. And, of course, this is related to another policy, not only to the policy adopted by the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention of Crime. Here it is about free access to areas where they can relax, it is about eliminating various forms of addiction - here let me draw attention not only to illegal drugs, soft or hard, but also to legal ones that are all hard, once in Slovenia, and of course through various culinary recipes are promoted as an integral part of healthy life, then by responding appropriately to violations of public order and peace, proper social policy, integration of people from different backgrounds coming to Slovenia, and of course there will certainly be more of them, as our borders are open. There are many ways that Slovenia can use, and only after all of this is spent, is there a repressive prevention, which in some ways is emanating from the motion for a resolution on the national programme. Ensuring security, of course, is not a concept that goes against modern liberal, democratic countries. The general difference is mainly in the way a democratic state is engaged in ensuring security. Protection, at least in principle, is not expected to cause greater harm than the potential attack on protected values, and protection is not intended to promote xenophobia, intolerance, or unsuspecting as very nice forms. Above all, it should not bring about the freedom of an individual. In fact, the individual’s freedom, if too narrow, is, of course, a path to crime. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, despite all the concerns we have, we will support the motion for a resolution on the national programme. But I will end with the important words carved into the Statue of Liberty that the French have brought to America. It reads: "Those who are willing to renounce fundamental freedom for little security deserve neither freedom nor security!".. This is how this resolution should be viewed, not too hard to raise repression, but rather to establish prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you, too. Colleague Anton Kokalj will give the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u89	Security is a fundamental asset that the state is supposed to provide for its citizens. The increasing number of crimes, despite the research that Slovenia is a safe country, does not leave such a feeling in citizens. In view of the new emerging forms of crime, classical methods and means to fight crime are no longer effective enough. The changes in legislation and the sharper police pursuit do not produce the desired results. The EU also places great emphasis on the security of citizens. Based on the Hague programme, an assessment of the threat to organised crime was prepared for 2006. On this basis, the EU Member States' guidelines and priorities for limiting and preventing criminal activities, also approved by the EU Justice and Home Affairs Council at its regular session in June 2006, were set out. Therefore, on the basis of a resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime adopted in the National Assembly last year, the Government prepared a motion for a resolution on a national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2007 to 2011. The national programme focuses on 14 areas. There are solutions and objectives in each area. Each objective has certain key activities and actions, carriers or stakeholders and deadlines for implementation. Each strategy also contains an indicator for measuring performance, which allows for the verification of how the objective is achieved in practice. In adopting the Resolution on the Prevention and Suppression of Crime in Novi Slovenija, we advocated the principle of the concerted operation of all three branches of government. At the time of adoption of the national programme, however, we would like to stress that other organisations and initiatives that are mainly involved in the prevention of crime play a major role. It seems particularly important to us to prevent it. This is often not about achieving goals mainly through legislative changes, but through other activities that strengthen a healthy environment. In particular, it seems important to us that it is exposed, rather indirectly, to a family that, despite the transfer of work of education to the educational sphere, is still the basic cell of society, where we learn basic human relations. Teachers are very well aware of the different reactions of children and adolescents in relation to different family situations. In Novi Slovenija, we feel so positive that in the programme in the field of youth violence and violence in the family, preventive programmes are envisaged, including not only potential perpetrators of crimes, but the whole community. Education of staff in education and education, training of parents and minors in programmes to identify violence and non-violent conflict resolution is envisaged. With regard to restrictions on the consumption of alcoholic beverages, we would like to stress that we have good legislation. However, it will be more stringent, according to our assessment, and more consistent implementation. However, since many crimes occur in the local environment in one way or another, systematic involvement of local communities was essential. The combined operation of all organised forms of common life at the local level and the best preventive mechanism to prevent the small one, from which it usually grows much. Regular communication between local authorities, educational institutions, police, other institutions and the involvement of the population in useful voluntary activities such as firefighting, sport, culture, in many environments is statistically evidenceable to reduce local offences and disruptive behaviour of individuals and groups. Of course, such a good programme is just a dead letter on paper if no one carries it out or no one checks the scope and quality of the objectives. Therefore, within six months of adoption, the Government will establish a special inter-resor working body to oversee the work of the competent institutions. The Commission will be composed of representatives of ministries, experts, representatives of NGOs and representatives of local communities. At the same time, the Government undertakes to submit an annual report on the implementation of the motion for a resolution to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In New Slovenia, we hope that the programme will bring about a shift in key areas where only repressive methods have not made progress, so we will support the draft resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2007-2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Parliamentary colleague Marjan Drofenik has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u91	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I take the position of the Slovenian People's Party Group on the motion for a resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2007 to 2011. Criminality is the phenomenon of any modern society and, as such, the problem that each country is trying to limit to the greatest extent possible. When considering the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the next four years, we can state in general that the resolution records all the key problems in the area of crime in Slovenia and also foresees appropriate solutions. It is worth noting that solutions are appropriate and that in case of actual performance they will help to limit, perhaps even reduce crime in Slovenia. Notwithstanding the text of the resolution, we need to reiterate our assessment that legislation that enables the identification of crime and crime and the prosecution of perpetrators is good for us. Problems arise most often in the implementation of legislation, particularly in the detection of perpetrators of crime and other forms of crime, and in lengthy judicial proceedings. On the one hand, the latter are often the cause of inefficiency and, in fact, enable the perpetrators of criminal acts to be relatively safe from successful prosecution. The key question is whether people, our citizens, feel safe. The resolution gives due attention to this issue. Although the scope of property crime in Slovenia is increasing, it is worth stressing that for an individual there are various car and apartment burglaries that cause a feeling of discomfort and a feeling that people do not live in a safe country. Breaking into a car or an apartment each individual experiences as a grave offense to privacy that is hard to forget. Effective measures to reduce property crimes are therefore extremely important. It is also a matter of concern that a carjacker is seriously considering whether or not a break-in would report a break-in. In general, it is known how small is the hope of finding the perpetrator, let alone getting the victim back to the stolen thing. Police and other institutions should ensure greater efficiency in the prosecution of these acts. As an example, let me mention the thefts of car parts and car break-ins in the vicinity of the Vrazov market in Ljubljana. It's an area where such events happen all the time. There is no doubt that the competent services are informed of this and nothing actually happens. Similarly, in many local communities, where all people, for example, know individuals who are involved in local drug trafficking, everyone knows the places where this trade is taking place, the police are aware of it and nothing happens. The State must ensure effective detection and prosecution of these seemingly minor acts, which, however, make a significant contribution to the vulnerability of our citizens and citizens. At the time of adoption of this resolution, we would like to reiterate the importance of NGOs, in particular youth organisations that operate on the concept of youth and enable their active participation. These non-governmental organisations, based solely on voluntary work, need at least certain means to function more effectively, funds for basic material conditions. The preventive effect of these organisations is enormous for society, but their work is not valued enough. It would be significantly cheaper for the country to promote the work and development of these organisations than to provide funding for curative activities later. It is a criminality, whether we recognise it or not, strongly linked to the society's value system and not only to the social and economic situation of an individual or individual social group. As far as crime is concerned, we must insist on zero tolerance. The average citizen of our country thinks about it this way: if you have an opportunity in some position to do something unfair and you don't take advantage of it, you're incompetent; if you don't find yourself, that's your problem. And it's precisely this kind of thinking that we think there's a whole range of problems. Moreover, today among young people it is modern to be, under the terms, "inventive". We could talk here about the educational function of the school and more about the upbringing in the family. Honesty in the right sense often amounts to incompetence. That is why, if necessary, the country must also promote fundamental values through a fully marketing approach. If an individual is aware of what an intervention in property means, how an individual feels about something stolen or destroyed, he will likely find it more difficult to commit such crimes. Of course, the causes of crime are not uniform and it is therefore important that the resolution provides for inter-sectoral cooperation and, in particular, cooperation with the non-governmental sector. Active leisure activities of young people make a significant contribution to reducing the potential for negative behaviours; young people who actively spend their free time, acquire new knowledge and learn responsibilities. In this way, however, values that lead an individual away from crime are also shaped. We would also stress the need for human resources and financial reinforcement of institutions responsible for detecting and prosecuting crime. On this subject, the resolution discusses too much concrete action. It is necessary to realize that without sufficient and professionally qualified personnel, it will simply not work. We therefore expect that the orientations of this resolution will actually come to life. However, it would already be useful to consider various new forms of civil society involvement as specific forms of cooperation with the police and other authorities in providing security, especially in a particular local environment. This is a civil red tape unit that would provide for greater security in public areas in a discreet but effective manner. We are confident that we would find a number of volunteers who are willing to participate in this way in improving the situation in which we live. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the proposed resolution and expect it to successfully pursue its objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you, too. Ms Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u93	Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague! We will not support the motion for a resolution in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, particularly because we believe that this resolution could be significantly better and could contribute significantly more effectively to a more effective policy of preventing and suppressing crime. In the parliamentary group, we proposed, at the Committee's meeting, some amendments, which were rejected by the motioner with their left hand, as some unnecessary and additional disturbance to the text they submitted. This way of dealing with proposals by the Government does not oblige us to give support to such a document. In all likelihood, in the National Assembly, we will consider and finally adopt a document for which, according to our assessment, it would be totally irrelevant if it did not, since it does not really mean any significant shift in the perception of security problems and security culture, but simply in good and in bad way prolongs the current approaches to crime problems. Of course, we can all agree with some general objectives and wishes that crime be less, that people are better and police are more friendly - but we do not need a resolution to do so. In the resolution, however, there are some emphasiss and positions that we need to draw attention to, because they are actually putting it in the context that we have seen in the efforts of this Government over the past two years, which appears to be a systematic trend towards control and a repressive approach to solving problems. This trend is most significant in dealing with crime in urban environments. The resolution stems from the most surprising findings, in sayings, that there are the most crimes and other security problems in cities. Taking into account the simple fact that crime is the greatest crime where most people are, this finding should not be too unusual. Of course, taking into account the absolute number of crimes committed in one area into account, if criminal acts were to be compared according to the density of the population, they could be found to be comparable, given the density of such acts in smaller settlements or remote environments. Of course, urban environments have specific characteristics regarding crime, certain urban arrangements can, but they do not necessarily promote certain forms of non-socialised behaviour and so on. By no means do urban environments categorize crime and urban violence. Through the way crime has been dealt with in urban environments in this resolution, we recognize another significant move by this Government - this is against urban policy. Rejecting urban environments and urban culture, even with the attempts of its partial criminalization. This is also reflected in the fact that urbanism is required to comply with safety criteria, without any indication of what this should be. In particular, we hope that it will not happen that urban planning and projects are also confirmed by police officials. This would further strengthen the repressive nature of urban planning already seen in the new Spatial Planning Act. This is happening at a time when this Government, with the Law on Public Order and Peace, has driven youth from restaurants to hidden spaces, to parks and abandoned buildings, which can indeed lead to greater violence and other deviant phenomena in the city space and, of course, also to conflicts with local residents. In particular, we oppose the measure indicated in this chapter under point B: Promoting the installation of video surveillance devices in public places, problematic streets and markets that introduce effects, according to our assessment, large brothers, large brothers and degrade public functions of markets, streets, parks and similar spaces. We are not prepared to trade freedom at the expense of alleged increased security. This is a misdefined problem where we should ask ourselves why certain public spaces people perceive as potentially dangerous, not that we accept this fact as it is and install video equipment. As did The Economist of London in a tragedy at the U.S. University. In the wake of the tragedy, a major and hot debate took place in America on increasing security at American university campuses, rather than asking why such liberal access to weapons was possible. If violence and crime are in public places and in urban environments, the problem that needs to be addressed in a different way than this resolution suggests, then the real problem of violence in society in general is. Unfortunately, this problem has been dealt with in the resolution in general. Above all, institutions that can contribute to prevention can only be effective, barely live and are based on voluntary activities of a wide variety of societies and organisations. Of course, these problems are not addressed by the resolution. As I have already said, we will not support such a loose resolution at the beginning of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and representatives of the Ministry! On the list of pious wishes under the resolution, Minister Mate wrote: "Decreasing crime in urban environments, gradually reducing the number of property crimes, strengthening mutual cooperation in the detection and sanctioning of economic crimes, improving the effectiveness of detection, prosecution and sanctioning of economic crime and so on, reducing the number of users of illicit drugs and criminal offences committed by users of illicit drugs, reducing the number of violent acts committed by minors, reducing the number of violent acts in the family, increasing the number of measures and activities for effective assistance to victims and perpetrators of violence, focusing on non-repressive activities, laying the foundations for interinstitutional cooperation and so on." I said it at the beginning of a pious wish. I believe that the purpose of the Government or the Ministry concerned in preparing this resolution or national programme was good, in the first place, to take care to prevent and suppress crime. Finally, this is enshrined in the basic objective of this document. In short, to direct the efforts of the institution of the country and of course civil society to create circumstances that will ensure the inhabitants and inhabitants of our country to stay and work in a secure environment and, of course, create conditions for a quality, private and social life. The resolution highlights the planned and coordinated implementation of the activities of all those state institutions, as well as civil society and citizens and citizens, who can contribute to the control and reduction of crime in our country. It almost sounds too nice to be true, but I'm not a pessimist at heart. But reality has taught me, you know, to think, when and what I read. If the resolution highlights the planned and, in particular, coordinated implementation of the activities of the various actors, the State, as well as civil society, citizens, is merely a rhetorical question why the Ministry uses only and builds only on police data when preparing this national programme. It is specifically mentioned in 2005. This data is estimated by the Slovenian National Parties as it distorts or distorts the real picture, as data from NGOs show a different picture. The resolution identifies problems in the following areas on the basis of the programmes of ministries directly or directly linked to crime prevention. I'll list some on purpose. Property crime, economic crime, organised crime, drugs, juvenile crime, domestic violence, environmental protection, fear of crime, assistance to victims, changes in positive legislation, renewed interinstitutional cooperation, confiscation of property benefits and criminal policy. Again, the resolution emphasises, and I will quote: "In the suppression and prevention of crime, interdisciplinary cooperation is crucial among representatives of local communities, law enforcement and judicial authorities, institutions of social protection, education and education bodies, various associations and societies, industry, banking and private sectors, NGOs, research and scientific institutions and key persons, according to public opinion as well as the media." [[End of story.]] A finding that should actually be a known fact. But, at heart, respected colleagues and colleagues, Slovenia does not know interdisciplinary cooperation. He doesn't know. Therefore, procedures or, last but not least, assistance to the victim of the crime are ineffective. That's why the Zdenska village happened. This is a systemic error and I am interested in, I am really interested in, what concrete measures will the Government take to move in the direction of cross-cutting or co-ordinated cooperation in order to be responsible for reporting and also criminal responsibility, but first and foremost, the conditions for doing so must be ensured, but this step must be taken first by the Government, first and foremost by laws, and this must be followed, as has already been said, by appropriate practice in implementing these. And if I touch corruption here, not in the sense of bribery, I don't know, government officials, financial bribery, but, say, the threat of superiors and, as a result, job losses, because a man, say, at the police, the law enforcement authority, wants to get to the bottom of a certain matter, which is not the case for a ruling policy. This, respected colleagues and colleagues - I am sorry that the Minister is not here today - but this is not the right direction, nor in terms of prevention, but even less in terms of the curative or, if you want, treatment of the phenomenon or I will say, social reality, so crime in our country. Yesterday, at one of the television stations, we were able to hear again how effective, under the terms of course, our system is in the fight against crime. In particular, it was either economic crime or crime. I will not repeat infamous names or affairs. The fact remains that stories end with exoneration judgments, I might even say, everything, but I'm overreacting a little bit. But if there is a conviction, the convict suffers so much mental pain that the president of the State of Mercy. This is reality in our country. I ask, however, that this is a country's strategy in the fight against economic, property and, last but not least, organised crime. It is a pity, because there are key ministers missing, Minister Virant, Minister Šturm, and someone else; and also President of the Government, I believe, I should say enough about this strategy. It's a conceptual approach. It sounds very nice. In the context of the resolution, it has an important weight of inter-kind violence. But I would like to remind you that it is this government, or the ministry of Minister Beast, that has abolished the commission set up for this purpose at the Ministry of Education, namely the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for the area of violence against or between children, peers. On the other hand, international comparisons show that most countries within the European Union are ordering schools to systematically address the issue and develop an integrated policy and a way to address this problem. Our schools are left to themselves and to their strategies and sadly, you know, even their own financial abilities, which, believe it or not, brings even so far away that instead of a security guard before and at school, teachers are on duty. In the resolution, the Ministry notes that the criminality of young people is also becoming more and more worrying because the perpetrators of crimes are getting younger and therefore particular attention needs to be paid to this particular group. I'm asking, in what way? In the strategy in the chapter "Youth violence" I find, for example, or I could almost say nothing but - Preparation and implementation of programmes in the context of further education and training of professional workers and other employees in education and education. Everything nice and real, but it does not actually run away from me, according to the Minister of Education's proposals, but professionally trained workers in preschool education, for example, do not need professional education to work with children in kindergartens in the field of education, where the emphasis is solely on protection. And this is what I want to stress, this gap between one document and the actual work of individual ministers. Finally, what content of the programme, such as training of minors, is also included in the strategy, and specific legislation on education, primary education and secondary education will be included? Minister Beast is implementing reform, as far as I know, without the objectives set in this strategy. There is also a reduction in the number of drug users among the priorities of the strategy. Protecting the most vulnerable are undoubtedly young. I wonder, once again, what are the programmes, how will the government approach this goal? Years ago, in 2004, we, I remember very well, adopted a national drug programme. I wonder how it's done, what's the effect? Finally, the effects of methadone therapy, which is practically the only state programme in the context of treatment or aid to addicts, are financed by the state in very large quantities, drugs - Metadon. What's the government's drug strategy? Once upon a time, it was an independent body, today under its own minister, Bručan. In Slovenia, we are really taking big steps back, and I really want to know when Minister Virant is going to be, or when does he predict the final termination of that office in the care of savings in the state treasury? On a few less than four pages, I find a chapter of domestic violence. The Ministry notes that there is still too much tolerance in society for such acts and practices, and I certainly agree with that. I add, at all levels also among officials, if you wish, it is commendable to note that institutions that should operate in a comprehensive aid system do not have protocols of conduct. I would like to emphasise in this context, and given that there is a lack of prevention programmes, the drafter of the resolution has forgotten the victim assistance programmes. More. For example, sexual violence or crimes against sexual inviolability have been released throughout the document. We will find just and only at the beginning some statistics that show that this kind of violence is still present in our society, but this, respected colleagues and colleagues, is a serious social problem to deserve, even in a national document, a national programme to prevent and suppress crime. Sexual violence is not just a family problem. This is a very complex problem that should be addressed in an integrated manner. And while Slovenia does not even include this area in the 2007-2011 resolution, Sweden, for example, on more than 100 pages will draw up guidelines on aid measures supported by concrete analyses. Were all the relevant documents originating from the European Union really taken into account in the preparation of this document of the national programme? I would like to ask: Have the drafters of this document at the Ministry of Home Affairs heard that a convention to protect children from abuse and sexual violence has been prepared? This document very clearly defines, among other criminal acts, child prostitution of pornography and so on. Our strategy on these problems is silent. And look, between the solutions in the chapter family violence is even written down, and I will quote again, "to study and if legislation needs to be amended and supplemented to become effective in protecting victims of violence and persecution of perpetrators". In 2007, we are writing into the national programme to study and if necessary to change. But these are known facts. Several times it has been found that legislation is not adequate to make it weak, particularly when it comes to the protection of victims of crime. Let me just remind you of the law on the prevention of domestic violence. How many years have we been waiting for him, despite the decision taken in this House? There's still no such marriage. A concrete proposal aimed at greater protection of victims and prosecution of perpetrators was tabled a good year ago in the parliamentary procedure. Not for the first time, we have also proposed in the Slovenian National Party a stricter criminal policy for perpetrators of sexual violence, especially against children who have undoubtedly a preventive effect. Demeaning to children, to victims, if they're even convicted, I'll tell the pedophiles. You were not even in favour of raising the time limit for reporting a crime under the chapter on sexual inviolability, nor were you in favour of establishing a so-called register of convicted offenders of such crimes. It is even sadder that when this law was considered, the hall was half empty, that there were no representatives of ruling parties who usually like to boast about some positive morality. Not words, but actions are those of respectable colleagues and colleagues, actions, whether they are noble or not. And, unfortunately, I will say, with the last actions, that is, the vast majority of the coalition MPs and Members, when it comes to the conduct of this Chamber, do not shine. One more thing, after my assessment of the illogicalness in this chapter, I would like to mention. Among the indicators for measuring the success of the envisaged measures, the government wrote down, quote again, "adopt the Systemic Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence", end of the quote. I do not want to be rude, but as far as I understand the efficiency policy, this should not be about whether or not a law will be adopted or not, but about the implementation and effects of a certain law. It is not enough, I do not know, that the distinguished Minister Marjetka Cotman in the election campaign will say: "The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has drafted the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, which the previous government has not been able to prepare." What is important is what this law will bring first for the victims and, of course, not last for the whole society. I estimate that certain solutions are included in the national crime prevention programme in the coming period, which is too general in the absence of action plans in principle. This document is needed, of course we also agree on this in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. And I will not say that the findings in it, as well as the measures envisaged, are completely poor. I just want to draw attention to certain shortcomings, to too much of this system, to the too individual policy of ministries, to the lack of flexibility in legislation, which is primarily the fault of the lack of will of individual ministers. And certain facts in practice that go in a completely different direction from the guidelines set or objectives set in this strategy. Nevertheless, as has already been said, we will, of course, support this strategy or national programme in the hope of positive effects, in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the motion for a resolution. On the basis of the list of applicants, I invite Mr Ljub Germić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! When we adopt and discuss resolutions, resolutions in general, in fact, we are always talking about strategic orientations based on the analysis that has been carried out, and on the basis of baselines, we are also proposing carriers, deadlines and individual measures. Of course, in the framework of the resolutions adopted, there were many good wishes, many good travels to solve individual problems, and of course it is then up to individual measures to determine whether good wishes will also be realized in the guidance documents. I myself would touch on one of the areas set out in this resolution, which I consider to be quite flawed and even in the assessment, i.e. in the analysis and then in the measures envisaged. Why am I talking about inconsistencies in the assessment? So I will focus on prevention, because I think and I am sure that, in fact, in the area of prevention and suppression of crime, there should be a key weight on preventive measures. In this context, I will touch on the area, on the subject of juvenile violence, on the offence of which, of course, the drafter of the text of the resolution would have warned that if it comes from wrong assessments and analyses, then it would be questionable to act in action. Here I would point out to material preparers that on page 5 when you talk about the importance of preventive activities, of course you estimate that you are seeing an increase in the extent of juvenile delinquency and you estimate that this can be attributed to various factors. In this regard, I would like to remind you further, when you find that, in chapter four, juvenile violence, you find a very different assessment or different assessment that official statistics do not indicate an increase in juvenile violence, which is long-term to every society, meaning and so on. On the one hand, it is one assessment, which is then written in a different way in the very objectives of the resolution, but you point out that 80% of crimes with elements of violence remain undeclared. Of course, if you're talking about leaving a series of undeclared actions, then it's very interesting how you think that's 80%. And if 80% of the undeclared acts of this, I think, are concerned about what these acts are, where these acts are, and what is the reason for such a vast area of undeclared violence with elements of violence. And then, when we continue to say that this certainly applies to the area of juvenile violence that we witness in schools, free time and even within the family, of course, then I ask myself: Yes, then we propose measures, through targets, through carriers, through hands, but if we are talking about such a vast field of undeclared actions that we do not really know the causes and then we can assess the consequences. Here, of course, I think this resolution is on a very fragmented basis, because when we talk about juvenile delinquency being attributed to various factors and that traditional methods are no longer actually effective, you are proposing a new approach. So you are proposing a new approach, when reading further, but of course this new approach has not been able to be detected. So there is nothing new that would give rise to the credibility of justifying this new approach. So you are talking again about, of course, the need to connect specialised institutions in finding solutions to young people's problems. I ask you: in this resolution, where do you propose concrete measures that will link these institutions to a smaller solution in this area in reducing juvenile delinquency, juvenile violence? When you talk about giving more attention to young people and allowing young people to become involved in various useful activities, I ask you: Where are the measures in which the fields of this resolution, in which chapters you devote to the various useful activities of young people? Unfortunately, you do not define this, and here I find this resolution to be flawed, even lacking in the part where you find that social inclusion is one of the basis for assessing that the level of security guaranteed will be as high as possible. My question here is repeated through a number of my discussions here, have the Government's actions in various areas been consistent with this stated objective in this resolution? I find that no, and the consequences show no. How this Government responds through, say, an action programme in the field of drugs, that statistics show that an increasing number of young people are reaching after this and most importantly, that the age limit is substantially dropping to lower ages. Therefore, the action programme under the national programme does not, of course, respond to this area. When you talk about solving this pressing problem, of course you are talking about the need to provide in the curriculum specific areas of so-called non-violent communication, non-violent conflict resolution. Of course, I wonder where such measures are envisaged, because this government has not actually come in these years with any measure that would solve, let's say, this pressing issue. And of course, violence between peers, so between young peers and even violence within the school space, you see in one area that there is more and more, on the other hand you find that it is not growing. That is why it seems to me that there will be much more to be done in the analytical field, because we find that this is an extremely burning area. And of course how to involve all the different entities within the school system, parents, i.e. parental education programmes, teacher education programmes and how we will implement, say, all these active leisure programmes, but if we can actually see that they are membership fees for young people to be able to participate in sports societies, in fact, in constant growth. And that, of course, free sports facilities for 24 hour access, if I may say in quotations, is virtually impossible to find. And if we can link this to the fact that the increase in standards in educational institutions should be anticipated, of course, we are wondering how we can implement all of these measures, which are enshrined in this resolution, of course, that we will be successful in reducing youth violence, and we ourselves find that social exclusion, school failure, of course, is moving these unsuccessful students and students to the streets, where, of course, the street is also overcome by the possibility or increased possibility of entering a violent act, or by increasing the scope of threats and violence. Of course, here I would like to point out to the proposer that, with such principled definitions, we expect concrete measures to be comprehensive in specific areas and that they can help us write what we can write in a general document. I have only reminded you of one of the pressing issues, because when we write in the resolution that juvenile violence, accession, in fact, is a reflection of sample action either in the family or in society as a whole, of course, then we must also ask ourselves whether we can respond very positively to the segments of different laws, or whether we have contributed to the achievement of the objectives set here. Unfortunately, it is often possible to say that individual legislation in particular areas does not contribute to an optimistic view that success in achieving the objectives in this resolution can also be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. The strategy that we are considering today is satisfactorily set in technical terms, and is designed to measure the results of the responsible carriers, including the participating, actions, implementation deadlines, indicators, targets. In short, in technical terms, a document that meets the criteria. However, I wonder, of course, the starting point for setting up a strategy as an integrated measure, in order to actually come to the key sources and reasons for the creation of crime in Slovenia and to address these, which is a question. Initially, in your explanation, you will be touched by the fact that this is certainly also a social issue and social programmes and educational programmes. However, when the text comes in the sense of the strategy, of course it is no longer there. It is therefore focused in some sense on mitigating the consequences of violence of crime and underlining this police organisational approach to the suppression of crime, where violence is born, where the basis is. That, of course, is a question. The key thing is for sure, then, that the company that has moved away from its value is not well written. When asked young ones a while ago, the primary school graduates asked them what value is really the most important thing for you in life. And amazingly, most of the kids responded, money. Money. Money can buy anything. This is the disturbing answer, and on this basis we should also think. So the answer is money. So the young generation understands that money is a key value, and for this value they are willing to do a lot, much, much more, everything. That's it. Which institutions, in fact, have the most influence on the design of values, on the design of personalities? The first institution that is closest, since birth or even before birth, is the family, are the parents. In a good family, a future race of honest people is formed, or it is also a genealogy for the creation of crime. That's what we should be asking ourselves. And the other institution is the school. Whether a school is just an educational institution, it has to become an educational institution because it's not. And just that, this emptying of values, skapism [[?]] In Slovenia it led to this, to violence in primary school, in the family and in society. And that is why, if we are to pursue a strategy, we need to tackle our origins. The strategy doesn't answer that. Violence is a matter of relationship. A fundamental relationship children learn, get to know, live, at home, within the family. What's that? That's what's gonna give us a starting point for life. The family and the school can function well, but we let them down, even though their role is constitutionally determined, for both of us. And if they weren't important, they wouldn't be particularly exposed in the constitution. Today, young people live in an inextricable chaos of different ideologies, guidance, parents have no time to build a relationship. But without this fundamental relationship, it won't work. It will not be possible if we do not also act as a society, even as a school, to influence the fundamental relations that are formed within the family so that young people are not neglected not to remain alone. Today, young people are not ready to face globalisation challenges, with virtuality, and there is a basis for crime, any of which can also start with drugs, which you also mention, how you will prevent them. However, as we say, without the inclusion of these two key sources, we will not get the right results. If the family is the most important factor of society, then it should be mentioned in the strategy. If the school is an educational institution and not only an educational institution, it should be an integral part of this strategy. We are talking about domestic violence - and I would like to touch it - and immediately, everyone, media and others, we call for where the social workers are and where the police are. Whether we imagine solving domestic violence in such a way that a social worker may be reserved for each family or that we may have an on-call officer, for each event, for any on-call security guard or security guard or police officer. With such methods, we will certainly not take part in violence. The right path is what I emphasized. So we need other levers, the key levers. Unfortunately, these are lacking in the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you, too. I'm supposed to get the word from my colleague, Davorin Terchón, but he's not in the hall. My friend Joseph Bajc. [[He's not here.]] Comrade Aleš Gulic. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Honourable representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. The resolution has the title "National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for a Five-Year Period" so allow that, with the general support of the resolution already expressed in the opinion of the Group, I touch on some of the things which the resolution sees as problematic, under-emphasis or methodologically incomplete. It would certainly point out that the scope of preventive activities should be increased, with more integration between economic associations, local communities, scientific and educational institutions, the media and civil society, as well as the emphasis on police prevention. Why am I stressing this? Simply because I wonder if the resolution presents a correct picture of the scope of preventive action, as if it were based on the reports of the Slovenian police under consideration by the resolution. The Community chapter on targeted police work shows the scope of preventive activities. The analysis shows that the scope of these activities does not grow as expected, but varies. More, a little surprising, contrary to expectations, it turns out that in 2006 there were even a little less of these activities than in 2002. If then taken for example in 2005 and 2006, it is noted that the scope of preventive action in the field of public order and peace has decreased by almost 2% and in the area of crime by almost 11%, and in the field of road transport almost 21%. If we then look at the level of reported growing crime, we can find that we have almost 11% reduction in preventive activity on the one hand and 7% increase in the number of crimes on the other. And it's not right that we don't talk about these things. The resolution should therefore set itself a clear objective to increase the scope of preventive activities in the future, both in terms of scale and in terms of introducing new approaches. The police are supposed to be actively involved in this by increasing their engagement rather than reducing it as it has been so far. Let me just remind you of the consideration of certain laws, such as red tape or something where we have specifically warned about the relationship between the role of the police and other actors. I should also point out the under-emphasis on the causes of crime prevention if I turn to this segment, especially in urban settings. From the environment in which I live, there is a case of the illegal operation of a place that, regardless of what the law says, allows this place to operate peacefully. And if we looked at how many hours different institutions have been used that were involved in solving this problem, then we would see that several thousand hours have gone by and the place could have worked peacefully. And yet it is the operation of a place whose activity is linked, if we are now talking about a sense of security, including vandalism in the urban environment. The effectiveness of the legal system should therefore also be questioned. If we are talking about the urban environment as one in which there are multiple crimes, then at least something should be added to the strategy and programme in order to take care of abandoned facilities and areas. The performance indicators could also be measured here. But let me now touch just one very specific piece. It is said that urban environments are the generators of a higher number and a higher incidence of crime. For Maribor, it is certainly not possible to claim this for the municipality of Maribor because the number of crimes in recent years has fallen. However, there has been a significant change in the years 2000 and 2003 because the methodology for data capture and evaluation has changed. But it's not about any significant increase in the number of robberies. More alarming, however, are the data on the rate of investigation of crimes against property. If we deduct crimes of concealment, blackmail and fraud, the level of investigation is significantly lower in practically all other crimes against property. The trend in the investigation of thefts and large thefts is practically evenly decreasing. Over the past few years, the rate of investigation of large thefts has nearly halved. In 1999, the rate of investigation of large thefts was almost 30%, and in 1006, it was almost 15.7%. And the rate of investigation of the thefts is less than 2/3. The investigation rate from 1999 fell from 33% in 2006 only to 13.1%. And that's the last piece of information. The comparison shows that in 2006 there were approximately as many crimes per 10,000 people in Maribor as in Slovenia. This means that the justifications in the text about cities as generators of the bulk of crimes at least for Maribor do not hold. And I'd like to comment on another piece of information. Unemployment is found in many chapters as a fundamental cause of crime. Taking into account the data on unemployment in Maribor, this certainly cannot be the first reason. However, due to the limited time of discussion, of course, I will not go to the chapter on domestic violence. All I regret is that more than two years have been lost when we had to fight with all our efforts to ensure that the system law on the prevention of violence is needed. Thank God there is another campaign within the Council of Europe or a strategy within the Council of Ministers, so that Slovenia also knows the need for such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u103	The resolution on the national crime prevention and control programme for the period 2007-2011 seems to me to be a very important resolution that we are considering today, and I hope we will also adopt it. I hope and wish that this resolution will not remain a dead letter on paper, but in all the areas referred to in this resolution, it will only cause the active work and functioning of all actors to begin to resolve or at least point in the right direction in this area. The situation as it is is at first a little bit defined whether we believe that this information is real or not, I wouldn't go further. It's kind of easy to say that if I just open a newspaper every day, I can see from it that there's violence, that there's certainly a lot of crime, that there's too much of it anyway. And it is up to all of us to make everyone in their field carry out their mission to contribute to this reduction, and the state, the State Assembly with all ministries, with the government, with justice, with the prosecution, the police are first called to play their part in this. When this resolution discusses these different criminalities and other matters, it seems important to me that we know that a lot of things are connected. When we talk about urban crime, we ask ourselves whether it is really that big, unfortunately we also have to find that it is increasingly moving from towns to rural areas, that criminals have found that criminal acts can also be committed in the country, perhaps even more secretly, less visible in front of the eyes of the public or in front of the public. I have also stopped myself most in youth violence, because in my opinion this chapter is the most important, because there are young people in the game who will quickly become adults, the adult citizens of our Republic. What a youth they have, what a upbringing a youth has, what a life - style a youth has, what a life - style it is. I must say that I am very concerned about the need to introduce security services in Slovenian primary and secondary schools. When I think about my years of schooling and growing up, we never thought of anything like that in our dreams. Is the introduction of security services and video surveillance really necessary, or is it necessary to do something else, something more important, which will also have longer-term consequences and even longer-term results? I would like to repeat Mr Drobnič's words that the environment in which young people grow up is the one that shapes young people, that family is the basic cell, on which it depends very much, on how young people will be raised, and on how young people will live, that in addition to family education institutions are the ones that help parents, the family in directing children. It also seems very important to me that when it comes to the goals of how to eliminate or this area of crime, it seems to me that youth violence is very important to me how young people spend their free time. If we can hire young people, we can include them in different societies, institutions, sports societies, music school, firefighting companies, not to mention everything. It depends very much on whether young people use all their energy they have for positive purposes, or whether they will cause problems to themselves, their parents, and society as a whole. But it is true that each chapter cannot be dealt with here in particular, so that it is intertwined. In the case of young people, the problem of drugs has already been said, how the age limit of users is decreasing. I will also say that drugs cause more and more violence and other crime among young people when young people are looking for means to reach their necessary doses, in legitimate and illegal ways also through crime. And last but not least, I'm gonna stop at domestic violence. The family was mentioned in the youth group, and this is how we see this entanglement. If we have properly trained youths to make good families, if they themselves are trained to be a father, a mother, then the youth will be different. In the face of domestic violence, I would stop myself from dealing with the problem of alcoholism, which I think is one of the main causes of domestic violence and youth violence. Here I think that the country has done little to try so preventively somewhere, and I say quite often that repressive prevention is also important, because only such prevention, which does not show the consequences of irresponsible behaviour, does not produce the right results. I will conclude with the wish that this resolution would not really remain a dead letter on paper, but indeed come to life in all areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you, too. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Surely the resolution we are considering today is a useful document. It is an assessment of the situation, a collection of problems and guidance on how to act in the future, where they are needed and why certain legislative changes are needed, where there is a need to strengthen and raise operational action to prevent crime to a higher quality level and so on. In this context, it shows further attention to new and thoughtful methods and interventions to strengthen the preventive action of competent authorities and institutions. The resolution itself underlines the need for better interinstitutional cooperation, which should be planned, systematic and coordinated, which should be geared towards greater efficiency in the prevention and suppression of crime and in the rehabilitation of perpetrators of crime. This is particularly true because we know about the issue of return and, in particular, special return, and it is clear with appropriate action that we can prevent many things. In my opinion, however, the resolution is weak in the part where it should respond more intensively to Slovenia's additional exposure after joining the European Union and, of course, the new time brings new forms of crime. Slovenia is therefore not only a transition country for cross-border and organised crime, but is increasingly a country of final destination. We are increasingly facing trafficking in human beings, illicit drugs, money laundering, computer crime and, finally, domestically, imported corruption and clientelism. I may have overlooked the material because it is very extensive, but I have not seen anything concrete about the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which would also commit ourselves to establishing a special independent and independent body to prevent and monitor corruption. When the Constitutional Court has already decided on our initiative to assess compliance with the Constitution of the most recently adopted Act on the non-compatibility of performing public functions with a gainful activity, it would therefore expect something more concrete about this subject in the resolution, or the representatives of the proposer present today can tell us something more concrete about this or where this process of ratification of the relevant United Nations Convention has been put in place. In one of the initial discussions, I have seen some opposition to the specific treatment of urban crime. I would object to this, because it is necessary to realize that crime in the urban environment has its specific characteristics, and that then measures to prevent and suppress urban crime must, in some way, be specific. Especially in the urban environment, it has a specific nature of juvenile crime, and therefore a very specific approach is also needed here. I am also reminded of some concrete documents that the Council of Europe has dealt with in relation to juvenile crime in urban settings, and I have not been able to track them in this list. But it is certainly not just that, as my forerunner has said, that crime moves from urban environments to rural areas. This is not just about moving, but it is actually about strengthening and increasing crime in rural areas, and it is probably necessary to focus and anticipate, in particular, the appropriate actions of these state authorities or of this interinstitutional cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you, too. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I would also add that the resolution is a general document in which the actual situation, objectives, measures and ways of achieving these objectives must be clearly defined. I do not imagine that the resolution would accurately or would have said that all the details would have been fully defined. And in this context, I believe that this resolution is also ready and contains it, and I will also support it. However, I must say that I have certain concerns about Chapter 4.12, Interinstitutional cooperation, where cooperation between the State or the Ministry of the Interior, NGOs and local communities is defined. I myself believe that in these measures the local community can certainly play an important role or the local community must play an important role. In fact, this is also the case in the resolution in this segment. But when the resolution states that a single competent ministry will also transfer part of its budget share to the local community, then I would like to say quite frankly that there are some unrealistic grounds here, given that we know the Law on the Financing of the Communities and that unfortunately in the past history this has not yet happened, and I am not sure that it will also be in the future, that any specific Ministry will indeed be prepared if, together with the local community, it carries out a specific task, and then from its budget, it will be transferred to the congregation, which I think is not going to go legally. At the same time, when I look at this conclusion on this part, that is to say, one sentence is written here that the expected additional funds amount to EUR 20,000. I think this sentence is too much to say that it's actually written here as well. However, I would like to point out that the local communities could certainly contribute a great deal to the prevention of crime, particularly in the area of youth. Of course, they must, as I mentioned earlier, have financial conditions so that local communities can create certain conditions to attract young people to engage in other activities. We have already heard today that this is sport, culture and so on, but this requires a certain infrastructure, which requires certain projects and certainly needs financial support on this segment. I expect that somehow, I am a pessimist in this area, which is written here, that this will not apply, and that it will indeed happen, that the local community will be able to involve itself, and above all that they will be financially able to carry out certain important activities or projects on this segment. With regard to other content, or what is necessary or unnecessary, I myself support the need to carry out certain activities in the field of urban settlements, as are actually shown. I don't know if it makes sense today in the National Assembly to discuss whether we need video controls or don't need them. Surely this is one of the instruments or technical tools that have contributed greatly to the prevention of crime in the past and in the future. If I just illustrate the case. We built a big parking lot for trucks. In fact, this was not envisaged in the design process, which is why it is also stated in this resolution that it is necessary to think about this in spatial plans or to present documentation. And if we had video surveillance in this parking lot, then it would not have happened that one car carrier took off a mirror or a spare wheel in the parking lot to another car carrier, especially in the border area where locals and foreigners park. Like I said, I will support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I ask the National Assembly to listen to my fellow Member, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. I also believe that the document before us is extremely important, although I am not in favour of excessive inflation of these documents, but we have committed the Ministry and the Government to this with last year's resolution on the prevention and suppression of crime. I must conclude that the Government has made an extraordinary effort to identify all necessary measures to make some progress in preventing crime, as crime prevention has never been achieved. There will never be such a low level of crime that we can enjoy knocking on each other's chests and now we've achieved everything. This makes prevention all the more vital than the execution itself. There have been a lot of speeches or, above all, speeches about youth violence, crime against young people, crime in urban settlements, drug addiction among young people as crime, etc. I think that these are extremely important areas, which is why I cannot agree with one predecessor, a fellow Member who comes from an unrelated or unorganized parliamentary group, whatever they are called, who claims that this treatment of urban crime is an attack on urban settlements, that anti-urban policy is designed here. She practically demanded the calculation of per-capita crime. This is said to be the result here, for example in Domžal, where there are some notorious cases where the mayor was until recently, this youth violence is marginally negligible, and that in some more rural environment it is essential. If we went to the "per cap" calculation, it might even show up, but we're interested in objective results here, other active issues. That's why I think the approach is right. And I must say that the great cause of urban crime is also the wrong policy in the past, such as the construction of schools, the planning of school space. In the previous system, the fashion of high school centres, large schools, huge schools, which were built in contrast to the solutions of teachers at the time. And everywhere you have these school bikes, the drug industry is running fast, the violence begins. And we've been undoing these mistakes in recent years. They are also successfully removed by this government, and last but not least in my place we have said good-bye to the concept of a huge elementary school and we are going to two primary schools and the construction of another primary school has already begun. Pedagogical workers, teachers, simply could not cope with juvenile violence in such chariots and with these phenomena that broke down there. I would only touch on the areas of economic crime and organised crime, which we know is an extremely problematic area in preventing this crime, as there has been no political will here in the past. Those of us who have also worked in the intelligence supervisory commission, including the criminal service, have been identified under previous governments that the economic crime department has been virtually disbanded. And here, frankly, there is also an extraordinary fluctuation or inappropriate human resources structure, and to this day it has not been possible to establish this. Furthermore, in the chapter on organised crime, which we need to be aware of, an exceptional problem, because if it breaks across all borders, it is a humus to increase crime, including those crimes that are otherwise of lower rank, but also socially harmful. In fact, here I have seen an evaluation of the Council of Europe experts, quote, "The Group of Experts of the Council of Europe, which in early 2006 assessed Slovenia in the field of information exchange of criminal intelligence with Europol and Member States or between Member States, has found that the Slovenian police do not have the established concept of police work based on criminal intelligence that would allow a proactive approach and planning and prioritizing the fight against crime." This happened in early 2006. The villains will say that this is bad for the current government and the current government. And I say that it is important that it is so openly written here, because this is a confirmation of what I said was not political will and there is no awareness and attitude towards criminal intelligence. I am firmly convinced that this report was also the reason why the government has taken over the activities of the Soviet Union and has also taken part in government control of the activities of the Soviet Union, which, of course, is of great importance if it wants to, even in preventing any crime. One of the main causes of the intelligence services is to provide the state with excellent, good intelligence, which enables it to fight against negative phenomena in society. It is unusual that this pro-active action of the Government would have been awakened by some opposition Members and some from the previous power elite. So much more is driving me to think, but what has happened then is that what the Council of Europe is actually traveling us and that this has been caused by such unrest, such a placement of various insinuations that there has been a political will for such services to work for the benefit of the State. Was such a thing really happening that was not permitted, contrary to human rights? I think that the Members who placed certain insinuations in the public will also have to explain here in the National Assembly what led them against, in fact, to be under thorough control and to act only in the direction of what is allowed, which is beneficial for the country, which is beneficial for citizens. If we work, if the government will act in this direction, if the political will is to actually strengthen these structures, that they are properly rewarded, that we will move in the right direction. For, as I have already mentioned, in the criminal service, some structures have been completely decomposed in the time of the previous governments. Last but not least, these orchards are now that almost every criminal prosecution in the field of economic crime that does not have adequate backstopping support falls on the courts. It's not the police's fault. It's the breakdown of the system in the past. This is why some people are now smiling, even though they were members of the government responsible for such a situation. Once again, it is important to prevent crime in all areas, in all forms. Of course, it is extremely important that in fact the institutions that play the most responsible role in this area, in that they are staff-strongly equipped, in that they play their role, in that their activities do not go hand in hand, in that they are not allowed, and that only in this way is it possible to actually make progress in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I can't afford to warn myself that we have two and a half years of the current government, that we have the current coalition for two and a half years, that there are two and a half years in which it is possible to change a lot of things - and unfortunately there is not. And it will also be necessary to start thinking about stopping talking about the 12 years, but to start talking about the years when we have this government and to answer the questions that we ask ourselves in the way that we did in this mandate, and not what happened in all of the past, and there to find the reasons that we are now failing. I would also remind you that you have also come to power in 2004 thanks to opening up stories about corruption, about crime and talking about how things will get better when you're in power. Today, we observe the fall of all charges against each other, the fact that nothing actually happens. Indeed, it is necessary to separate the executive branch of power from the judiciary and to say that each one has his own business. But given that you've been predicting this, I would like to remind you that from what you've been predicting, there is nothing and that your Government has been in office for two and a half years. When we talk about this resolution or the motion for a resolution, I can join in that it may even be necessary, of course if it is upgraded by measures or the implementation of what is written here. However, if this was a painful work, I could challenge it, given that I find that you have such good statistics, that you even know how many percent of the cases, offences, crimes have not been reported. So, if you know this, you know everything else, and you had this information, and you could have turned it nicely into this document, which I can also say hello to. When we talk about security, of course security is almost the first time we talk about values. We're dealing with security issues all over the place. Even in local communities or mainly in local communities. There are people living there who face crime every day, where we face drugs, illicit sales, and so forth. When we are talking about urban areas and the active role in the elimination and prevention of urban crime, of course, we are also talking about this in a way that, when we are also trying to do video surveillance, and perhaps by physical control, a certain area is covered, that is to say that those involved are moving elsewhere, moving to where they are less visible. But these areas in Slovenia are almost gone, areas that would not be urban and where these phenomena that we are talking about today would not be observed. I agree with all those who have warned before me of the preventive role, the preventive task of our society, and much more will have to be done in this area. In individual municipalities - this resolution makes it clear that there are as many as a hundred of them who have decided to contribute their own share in this area and have set up various consultative bodies, which is, of course, good data. For example, if I mention the municipality of Velenje, there has been a council for several years to improve the security of citizens and we have been very active in this area also with repressive authorities for several years. However, it is stated here that there should also be cooperation with the judiciary and some others. We are simply not doing this right now in a way that we can get a very high rating, because simply given that we do not have the formally defined necessary powers to which you point out here, of course, our work is also very limited. We talk a lot about youth, crime. I am already very often reminded by young people of these meetings of the Council that we use the expression of youth more carefully, because crime is everywhere not only among young people, and that we do not place so much emphasis on youth crime, but we are talking about crime in general and also about security in general. When we adopted the Law on Community Editors a short time ago, in our parliamentary group, we were alerted to the competences, to the hard work of all the activities recorded in this law. And now we're waiting for the next move, these moves on the side of the executive branch of power are not yet there, we have a law where this is written down. And that's all we've done. We talked about the security plans that we're going to design or adopt together, and we're not nearly as far away as we can go at the local level. And when we talk about it, and it's very well written in this resolution, when you say that if people understand police patrolling as the best method of preventing crime at local level, and if they think that an increase in patrols improves the cooperation of citizens with the police and more effectively prevents crime, then the police have to listen to them. It's beautifully written, but it's very feasible. There are fewer and fewer police officers who can do preventive work, fewer police officers walking the streets, and perhaps fewer police officers at police stations every year where people estimate that it is necessary. We are now moving them to the southern border, in accordance with the Schengen Agreement, and in local communities, there is still a smaller number of police officers than before and much less than is actually systematised with internal police acts. So this does not mean that we can do more in this area. However, when we look at the equipment of police stations when we look at what kind of cars police officers drive with, of course, there is little hope that police officers can reduce the negative effects in our society as bodies of repression. When we look at cars used to drive drugs, and when we look at cars used by those who would like to track them, the difference is that we are not talking about other equipment. And while we're at it, if the government had shown good faith, I would have arranged for the officers to be assigned to that pay grade the cops wanted. Thus, for this salary that police officers are getting, to expect them to carry their heads back on the market over and over again, and forgive me on that term, there is a pre-optimist expectation and I fear that in this way, as is now done, we will have no better results and we will be able to rediscover each year primarily the outflow of police personnel and the increase in crime. And that's what I'd like to say. When you're talking about building buildings in the previous system where there are too many students and students to remind you of practices abroad, you've probably heard of how many of them live in these settlements, for example, England, in America. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This is not the basic reason for crime, to sell drugs there more than it is after small schools. [[...]] The causes are somewhere else, we'll need to act preventively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you, too. Member Aloys Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Fellow Members and Members. Let me add a few sentences to this debate for my own magnetogram. I agree with my fellow magicians. To the petty and fellow Roots, who have warned of the European Union and Slovenia in it, which, of course, is somehow becoming a society without values, with increasing erosion of morality. These are, in fact, fundamental reasons for increasing within this European Community. It's not just us, but we can watch it on TV every day to increase this violence in this room. And of course, all countries are wondering how to prevent this. This resolution, of course, is a good document at technical level, the question is, of course, how to implement it in all times of our lives, how to actually implement it. But I wouldn't now because I don't even have time to go into it. But I'd like to point out something else. I think that much more needs to actually start working on the investment segment in the expertise of the people involved in this area. For it seems to me that if we deal with people who are not qualified for these areas, they are fully qualified, that there can be no real success. There is something to be said about this document, and I think it should actually be one of the main points. And here I would like to draw attention to one part of this resolution, on page 45, when it writes Assistance to victims of crime and then lists how these victims of crime should be dealt with. I would also point out in one segment that perhaps the resolution should write something about assistance to accused persons in criminal proceedings. Indeed, it is not this claim that all those who have been brought into judicial proceedings are automatically guilty. According to our constitution, everyone is innocent until proven guilty. And we have recently had some judicial proceedings in which the key defendants have been acquitted. But even today here in the National Assembly by Members, just before me it was said, in a way, they should be guilty. I wonder, why? Should they really be if this has not been proved in the proceedings? How can we protect people who are sometimes innocently accused of an act? I met myself recently when someone was strongly stigmatized and destroyed for the rest of my life. How can we protect these people? Are we really entitled to the names of these people through the media to put them in public and to make them public before anything is proven to them? And in order for this to not happen, it is necessary to ensure that those investigating these matters are far more professionally qualified. So, here we are in the profession that deals with this, the real criminal service, and also in the others who are involved in these processes. Once again, I would like to point out that, on the basis of many more areas, this issue needs to be addressed because the original sin of increasing crime in the family itself, in the school system, is across different institutions. I just think that in this shortest way we should invest a lot more in the people involved. If we do this, then there will be success, and otherwise I do not believe that this resolution will make any significant movement in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you, too. A representative of the Government will be involved in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government, and on the one hand the Ministry of the Interior as responsible for preparing this document, was extremely serious when it came to this area. I must say that in my 30-year career as a police officer, I have not yet encountered such a complex document that would bind and travel to security in fact all departments, NGOs, institutions, the professional public. I therefore welcome those Members and Members, who in this way have also understood and explained the matter here. Of course, I have to respond to a few initiatives, most of which we certainly welcome in the Government, because they are well-intentioned and I think that most of them have been taken into account in large-scale coordination so far. When it comes to corruption, customerism, I must say that we have certainly been very aware of this in the Government, and that is why there is a particular emphasis in the resolution in this area. This area falls under economic crime and the visa has been raised as to how to deal with the United Nations Convention on Corruption. This area is already intensive, i.e. research within the interior ministry and the police as a body within the internal ministry. In 2003, a strategy for the management of economic crime was adopted setting strategic objectives with relevant programmes. Accordingly, systemisation in economic crime investigation units has changed in 2003 and 2004, as well as the level of competence, and the level of education has risen in this area. We have also re-systemised several jobs, in particular 20 jobs for economic crime research, of which corruption and corruption are also part. Prevention and prevention activities have been mentioned several times. I agree with most of the debaters, Members and Members, therefore, post-penal prevention is certainly and deviantism at all - very important and this resolution we have here today brings quite a few programmes in this area and in fact concerns most of the resources that are operating in this system today. How and why a large percentage of undeclared crimes, as has been mentioned several times today, of course - this is our result, which we bring to light here, is the result of empirical, that is to say, studies by international professional institutions dealing with this area. An alarming area of burglary or burglary was also mentioned and the poor efficiency of law enforcement in this area. I must say that it is certainly covered in the objectives which we have set in today's resolution alone, and it is necessary to be a little more careful when reading this document. As far as the institutional integration of juvenile issues, sexual violence, family violence is concerned, I must tell you that we have also included institutional cohesion in one of the areas and chapters of this resolution. So there is also a proposal or commitment by the Government to draw up a sectoral law on family violence, and I think we will certainly follow this matter as we have set it. However, this is certainly an extremely important area, a segment and the Government is certainly aware of this. Of course, ideal solutions are very difficult to find here. Whatever the case, we'll write it down, I'm a skeptic, or we can satisfy everyone who's been hurt here. I also agree with you about the extent of the preventive activity that is falling, that this is - you have mentioned there from 2 to 21%, depending on the area - certainly also extremely important and problematic if we look at the average. This year, however, the Government has taken on some of the amended rules, including the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace, among other things, the Ordering Act has passed on a new quality and a new enlargement in the field of security. Now it doesn't just fall on those direct law enforcement bodies as we can call the police. However, while the resolution is somehow trying to attract and motivate various institutions in this area, as well as international cooperation and the role of NGOs, which I think should not be neglected. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u116	Thank you, too. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. To my words, I invite Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. She's not here. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. You're giving up. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. You're giving up. I give my word to Ambassador Anton Kokal. He's not here. And once again, I invite the proposer to whatever he wants? Thank you, too. We will go to the debate on the amendment tabled at 4.6.4.4. - strategy, programme for the leisure of minors in section 4.6. - juvenile violence to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 23.4. and received by Members on the bench. So, as it is said, I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. None of the Members present wanted to discuss the amendment in connection with that amendment, so I also conclude the debate, which was not the case. We will also decide on the amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the votes. That's what we're gonna do in half an hour. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3:45 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u117	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. Thank you. We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item of the agenda - the second consideration of the draft law on electoral and referendum campaigns. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 43. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed amendment to Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 3. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 16. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, 6 votes in favour. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. This makes the amendment of the Social Democrats, number two, irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 22 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 30 votes in favour, 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 39 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give my word to the bill-maker. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you, Mr. President. I propose that the third hearing be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u119	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. There are 72 Members present and 59 votes in favour against 5. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday 26 April 2007, following the conclusion of the 13th item of the agenda. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is by re-declaring the Law amending and supplementing the Bond Code. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. I am opening an application for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members, a procedural proposal, excuse me. Proposal for a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the Group of Members, I propose that you set a 45-minute period before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u121	You heard the proposal. Of course, I will interrupt after the final stage of my explanation of vote. Is there any interest in explaining the votes of the members of the groups? I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Messengers and Members! Even though, of course, we will have this break, let me say before the break that we will not support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. So we will not vote in favour of the law for the reasons stated in the veto of the State Council. This law is nothing more than the fact that in this first decade of this millennium, as long as the law is enforced, we will have a situation where the debtors will be in three different situations. Debtors who have accepted and assumed commitments by 2002 will be subject to late interest rates running through the capital. For the period 2002-2007, default interest will cease to accumulate when they reach the capital. When today, if you reject in the ruling coalition the veto of the State Council and by 46 votes "for" the law will be confirmed by the debtors who will assume their obligations after 2007 again in a situation where late interest can exceed the capital. And that only happens in one case. Only when approximately 10% of the late rate of the judiciary is the Slovenian judicial system unable to resolve the problem of the dispute between the debtor and the creditor within 10 years. Therefore, we estimate that in January, all of us who confirmed the law made a mistake. The veto of the State Council warned us of this error, it warned us that the reconfirmation of this law would mean that we are returning to the time of the former Yugoslavia when the principle of late interest rates was interrupted, not to exceed the principal. We will therefore vote against the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you. Is there any interest in a personal explanation? No, then I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll continue the meeting at 4:40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u124	Dear Members, please calm down and take your seats. Once again, I ask you to calm down and take your seats. I'm asking the proposer if he wants to explain? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why we are moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 22. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2007-2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled by the Group of Non-Aligned Members to 4.6.4.4. This is a strategy, a programme, spending the free time of minors in subsection 4.6 juvenile violence. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 4. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the motion for a resolution would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - firstly at point (a) of the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. In agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I propose that we postpone the consideration of the proposal for the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to the time when the College of Presidents of the National Assembly will prepare a proposal for the allocation of seats and managerial functions in the working bodies of the National Assembly. We're going to point b. - To determine the termination of the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. Mr Slavko Gaber, Member of the Parliamentary Group, withdrew from the LDS Group and, pursuant to the second paragraph of paragraphs 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the National Assembly took note of the following decision: It is to be ascertained that the Member of the Parliament, Mr Slavko Gabru, has ceased to be a member of the LDS Group. As a result of the termination of the membership of the LDS Group, Dr Slavko Gabru shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. Dr. Slavko Gabru, thank you for your work. We move to point c. of the proposal of the Council of Justice on the election to judicial office. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly six proposals for the election of candidates for judicial office to the courts of the District Courts at the Šmarj District Court of Jelša, Koper, Lendava, Kranj and Gornji Radgoni. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission, as the working body of the country and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Barbara Polanec Ranchigaj to the District Court in the District Court in Šmarje pri Jelšah. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. 56 votes against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Asia Butinar to the District Court in the District Court in Cyprus. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. There were 60 votes in favour, no one in favour of the South. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mirela Bertalanič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Lendava. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. There were 65 votes against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Vladimire Pučko to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Lendava. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. There were 63 votes against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mateja Soklić to the District Court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Marjeta Kralj to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Gornja Radgona. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move on to point No, to consider the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the word "magic." Franz Znidarsich. [[He's quitting.]] The panellists shall also cancel. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Marjan Terpin as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of Article 17, paragraph 17, of the RTV Slovenia Act, for the period until the end of the four-year mandate of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was established in 2006. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for whom 44 votes against 6. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of members of the National Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of members of the National Election Commission. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We move to point e, on the proposal of the decision Mr Žnidaršič, do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In line with the agreement of the leaders of the coalition groups, I propose that this point be voted on on May 7th, which is the last day of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you. You heard the procedural proposal. Mr Potč, there is a possible explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will oppose this proposal in the parliamentary group. We don't really see any rational reason for him. The Commission of Inquiry, its composition, is established in accordance with the Law and Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation. It was discussed and decided even after an unusual procedure to vote specifically on the President, in particular on the Vice-President and then on the members, and finally on the entire Commission, so that everyone also had the opportunity to express their views within the framework of the Mandate-Election Commission. Otherwise, we all know, it is a minority investigation, an investigation requested by 32 Members and Members. This investigation must be determined and the National Assembly does not have the right to prevent the establishment of this investigation by a majority. In the commission of inquiry, the applicants shall have the right to the President. You must all understand that this does not mean that the coalition or those who have not proposed the investigation elect the president to those who have proposed the investigation. But it is normal for those who have proposed an investigative commission to propose a president. All procedures have been properly carried out. And we don't see why we shouldn't make that decision today. We were even happy when we read Mr Žnidaršič's statement, which he gave on the radio yesterday, when he said, "We do not oppose this commission. We are for all the things that may have been disputed to be investigated and I think we have nothing to hide so far." I hope that the emphasis "for the time being" was not from yesterday to today and that today it may be something to hide, but it is more a joke than indeed. I really do not see a formal reason why this vote should not be carried out. However, if the parliamentary majority wants to make it difficult for the Commission to be set up and thus to investigate, then it is a matter of completely different matters that we have to decide otherwise in the National Assembly, not by proposing the decisions that have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u129	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will also oppose the adoption of this Decision in the Liberal Democracy. It seems to us that such an agreement in the position was totally unacceptable if we wanted to harmonise anything in Parliament, it would be good to have at least the first commission to be held by the opposition, to at least consult with it, to try to reach some consensus here, and so you give us by agreeing on, in fact, the earpiece for the work of this commission. I think it's the cause, maybe, but now it's just assumptions, in two things. On the one hand, in this way, the work of this commission of inquiry, the only one who would have had the opposition, can be seen, on the other hand, that there is a strong fear that this commission would start, in the composition proposed, act as if everything was not as pure as the Minister had guaranteed before this matter was being prepared. And the third thing. It seems to me that in the back there is probably also shopping or human trafficking, which is supposed to be in here or on any other commission. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not really see any serious and real reason why these commissions would not confirm me. We will therefore vote unanimously against this decision. If this decision is adopted, we will understand this by wanting to be in position right at the beginning of the commission's operation, to throw the opposition's pollen under its feet as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you. There is no other parliamentary group. I therefore put to the vote a proposal under Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. The vote on the procedural proposal is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 25. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal was not adopted because it was opposed by more than a third of the Members and Members. According to the complication, you have a new procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u131	I propose a 30-minute recess to consider how we will vote, given the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u132	Okay. Then I'm adjourning the session. I'm adjourning the meeting for 10 minutes. [[...]] And I'm calling a meeting with the leaders of the parliamentary groups in room 217. We will continue the meeting on 17.10. I ask all leaders of the parliamentary groups to meet us in room 217.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u133	We continue with the meeting of the assembly. After consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we will continue the process of discussing and adopting the e-point, a 30-minute break that was requested by DeSUS, of course, will be given before the vote. We are therefore at point e., this is a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who have participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles - medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction is politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner, and because of the suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption, and for the suspicion of a direct or indirect link between current and former actors and holders of public arms functions in the period 1991-1993. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I won't kill you for long. I won't teach you. Every one of us sitting here today knows what the meaning of the decision we're facing is. There is no one who does not know that the adoption of the proposed decision is a normal respect for the law and the Rules of Procedure on parliamentary investigation and that the non-vote of this decision is the coalition's decision to prevent the opposition or the 32 Members and Members who have had this right and even the constitutional right provided for in the minority investigation from carrying out a minority investigation. I hope that we are aware of this fact and that, according to this fact, we will also take over each other, and the vote is a public one, the responsibility for what this vote will contribute to the development of democracy in Slovenia, what will contribute to the relations between the coalition and the opposition in this National Assembly, and whether we can be proud of the decisions we make, or whether we will have a majority of the majority we have, or whether we can take decisions that also mean the usurpation of power that means impeding the parliamentary investigation and the position of the opposition. I can no longer plead for the responsibility of the listener, please and I will not beg, but I believe that we are very well aware of the seriousness of this decision. After all, the president of the National Assembly warned us about this too during this break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko. He's not here. Mr. Willie Rezman, on behalf of the Desus Group. He's quitting. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Kumer. He's quitting. Mr. Rezman. So do I. Mr. Aurelio Yuri. Mrs. Breda Bakan. No, no, no. Mr. Miran Potch. No, no, no. Mr. Tanko. He's not here. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction is politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner, and that it is unsupervised and because of the suspicion of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of direct or indirect linkage between current and former actors and the holders of public arms functions between 1991 and 1993. An explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups, the application shall be made. There's no sign-in. I'm asking, does anyone want to explain their voice in their personal name? Yeah. Check-in is on. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I want to explain my voice. I say that I will not vote in favour of such a composition of the Commission. I will vote against this and I do not agree that Mr Squeakl is the President of this Commission. And I would like to tell Mr Potch that I understand what the opposition's institute is, what the opposition's proposal is, but in accordance with the Constitution, no one can tell me how I will vote and how I will decide on my conscience. And because of this proposal with which the opposition insists in some way, I will vote against it. The reasons have already been stated on several occasions by our Group of Members. I do not agree with the way in which Mr Cwickl, in the National Assembly, understands, as well as with the way in which some LDS Members have acted. Therefore, once again, I am against this, and I will express my disagreement by voting against such a composition of the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President! Speaking of an instrument of inquiry, there is already some history in the National Assembly. However, when we decide on how much this will contribute to democracy, whether it will contribute to democracy in our country, and how proud we will be of such decisions, I strongly agree with such statements. It is true, however, that there have been quite a few decisions concerning the work of the investigative commissions in this Parliament, which Members and Members of the National Assembly cannot be proud of, and not after seven years of, these matters. Not particularly when the ruling coalition of the United List and the Liberal Democracy voted not to address the final report of the investigative commission in the National Assembly because they were obviously afraid of too much truth. That is why I will support the Commission's proposal today, and I believe that things have gone as they should. However, if someone has acted contrary to the legislation and constitution in force, he is, of course, obliged to answer to Parliament or to electorate and electorate. That is why I have no doubts, and I believe they have done what is right and fair. However, I would remind you once again that a number of the decisions you made at the time were not correct, was unfair and, above all, not good for citizens and citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you. I look forward to the views of my colleague Pukšič. I also call on other colleagues and colleagues to support this commission and to prove that there were unfounded suspicions; some among them, too, I myself; that the coalition intended to obstruct, to make the initiation of the investigation more difficult, as we have proposed. There's little time. There's no time left. When we ordered this commission or ordered an investigation, you questioned the effectiveness of its work, in the year and a half, so that it is precious and important every week. Prove that you have nothing to hide, that this commission has been set up as soon as possible to begin work immediately. All the concerns we have at the expense of each other about the appropriateness of representing certain tasks and functions in this National Assembly - let us keep this to ourselves. Look, the commission or the opposition that proposed this has the right to propose its own man. We have proposed a candidate who, in our opinion, enjoys the most ability to carry out this task properly. When it is up to the Commission, which you are proposing to investigate other business, I will not object in any way to any president you are proposing. [[...]] So let's allow Parliament to work normally and not scream, of course, like paraphrasing one commercial: "Smells, smells, smells so bad." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you. Is there any other interest? I'm also opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Kumer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I propose, despite the fact that colleague Sok may change his mind before the vote, and I will try to explain briefly why we are trying to convince him to do so. I don't know why most of us in this House would be having problems with whether or not Comrade Squeakle will lead this investigative committee. This is the ultimate responsibility of our signatories, who we have proposed that this commission be established and we signatories have found that, of course, Comrade Squeakle is the one who can carry out the best and most credible work of this commission to the end. So once again, I would ask you to allow us, in accordance with the rules in force in this house, to take this responsibility, in this case too, and this is a point where, unfortunately, it is not good that you, of course, are imposing your proposals or trying to influence us. In short, reason itself is still not enough, it is necessary to know this sense to use it, and I propose that this mind be used by most in this National Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote in favour of the proposal for three reasons. Firstly, the fact that this is the President and how someone has transgressed is no reason not to vote in favour of this committee. In the past, we have had transgressions that have given birth to a new government, and we have not been troubled in this way. And today, we have a problem with that, which is not at all controversial. Secondly, I will vote in favour because I believe Minister Erjavec is not the key person in this business. Thirdly, I cannot accept that the state of Slovenia is building a new factory for these purposes when several factories, including the one in Koroška, are empty, which could be made up or produced by such armoured personnel. I would like this story to be clarified as far as it can be clarified and I will vote in favour of this proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u145	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Again, I would like to thank you from the heart for the opportunity that today, even though I am not a member of any working body in the National Assembly here, I can speak before this plenary, otherwise of a very sad matter. On this point, this Council of State is not prepared to comply with constitutional provisions, which explicitly states that the National Assembly in public matters must set up an investigative commission at the request of one third of its members. At the time we adopted this new constitution in Parliament, we were particularly proud of this 93rd article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because we then imagined that we had taken another step at the level of democracy in that country. Now this majority in this National Assembly denies what we have established in the Constitution as a principle. I think you should be aware of how unacceptable such an approach and such a decision is. I think that this is a very bad journey if you want for next year's EU Presidency, because we will be the only country in the EU that will not respect the Constitution and will not allow the opposition to set up an investigative commission, as provided by the democratically adopted democratic Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you. Is there any other interest in an explanation of vote? You have 30 minutes, Mr. Žnidaršič. Let's finish the explanation of vote first. Is it still an interest? Opening a new login option. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. I'll just say it first, I'll probably hold off, but there'll be another half hour to think about it. I have come to explain my voice, my view, because I think the words that we have heard today are contrary to what is the essence of this matter. This is not about this, even personally, this is my opinion, it bothers me nothing at all, and I think it is also that the opposition, if it has proposed this commission to lead it, no problem at all, even on my part. And also on the part of my colleagues, those who, of course, oppose this composition in this way, it is not this principle to oppose the opposition leading this, but it is a concrete name. Why? Because the Constitution also states that all of us must also respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And the one who leads is responsible for interpreting the Rules of Procedure, both the chairman and the committee chair or the chairman of the Committee. And in the past, it was precisely about this name that no principles, no principles, no Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were respected. We've discussed this a lot, and I wouldn't talk about it again today, but I would mention it because I don't have enough time. That is to say, it is only that those who lead it to respect the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, let's say they respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and so far, in this case, specifically, it has not been the case in this name, and that is what is the stumbling block. It is not a problem to lead and it must lead, and it must also lead the opposition because they have proposed, but it is a matter of concreteness, because there is no guarantee that the same person would now have respected the Rules of Procedure if he had not respected the Rules of Procedure before, and now all of a sudden he would have respected it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So, and it wouldn't be the first time that we've been in a situation where the proposal wasn't approved, we've had it at the end of our previous term as well as the current one. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you, Mr. Petan. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I am also surprised at some of the explanations that say in advance, what the coalition will do, how it will decide, I do not know how some of them will come to such knowledge. Do they see in us, in our heads, what our decisions will be? However, I would like to say that, I think that there is a generally well-known fact, as regards my position with regard to investigative committees, I have no problem with the composition of the investigative commission, nor with the composition of the conduct, whether a specific person respects the Rules of Procedure or not. I also know that in large cases, in large cases, he did not respect him when he led one of the working bodies, but this does not bother me, so I am not in trouble, but I would like to point out that all those who have taught him today that there must be a committee, if it requires a qualified number of Members, how you yourself have challenged and not respected what you are now defending, when we set up the first investigative committee and how many words you have had on this composition, how many words have you had on the one who has been proposed for president and vice-president and so on and so on and have voted against, but now you are teaching others that there are some concerns that they have doubts and that they will not support the composition of the commission. I don't have these problems, as I say. For me, that's no problem, I know no matter how I decide, and I will actually support this composition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I myself have a few kilometres in the field of investigative commissions, and I will absolutely respect the will of the proposers also to choose to run a commission. Of course, I recall that the people or Members of the same parliamentary groups have vehemently opposed and prevented and hindered the work of the investigative commissions in the past two mandates and have also achieved and prevented the consideration of the final commissions. As I have said, I will respect the choice within the applicants, although I myself think it would be more legitimate if the original proposal as it has been said and it has already been decided that Mr Pahor would be the President of this commission of inquiry, but of course I understand that Mr Pahor has problems now, because it was that Mr Squeakl would pay a lot of wages if he had stepped into this task force, but because of this you will have even more problems inside and this is only a temporary bridge to these problems and I am sure that this discard of the dispute will also work in your parliamentary group even when we confirm such a composition of the commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you. Since interest is still after explanation, I am opening a new round of pleading for reasons in my personal name. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! I was a member of two commission of inquiry in 1996-2000. One was led by colleague Franz Pukšič and the other by Joseph Jerovšek. From my experience, my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I assure you that the MEP will be a magician. Milan Cvikl was at least as good a chairman of the Commission as were colleagues Jerovšek and Pukšič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you, President. I will support this proposal myself. I think that respect should be given to the Mandate- volitional Commission, which is chaired by the distinguished colleague Sušnik, that the decision was taken where the position has the main majority, and if it were not adopted there, we would not be talking here today. On the other hand, I personally believe that this committee is carefully composed of each parliamentary group. We know that we don't only love the president of this commission, but we also love the members of all this commission. I value all these members, I don't exist anymore, and I stigmatize them, and that's why I'm going to make all the members by pressing for it. If I were to press no, it means that now those who did not say that they may have something against me, which I am also a member of this commission or against anyone else. I don't think it would be wise now that the media are almost entirely subordinated to the position of the three investigative commissions, when we witness the subordination of intelligence and security services to pure political interests, that the National Assembly would, of course, have taken away the opposition from this single commission, which it proposed, then, would have profound political consequences in the life of the Republic of Slovenia. Personally, I think that the biggest party, who also leads the Government, is aware of these responsibilities, and that it will also do so properly, as some Members have said they have a kilometre already in the National Assembly. For that matter, that we have not dealt with a particular report, and again, I repeat, this is the seventh time; at that time, the Government was led by Mr Bayuk, the President was Mr Spokonik, and we did not lead these things under their rule, not under our own.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much. As it turns out, my years have also attacked my memory a little, because I do not remember that, in dealing with the composition of the commission requested by the coalition, they would oppose the composition with the President and the Vice-President. However, I would have been more likely to come to light with regard to the lack of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances. I must say that the complications and difficulties began when, due to the Mercator problem, the sale of shares in Mercator, the Commission increased by one member and it received an absolute majority of the coalition and that all the meetings that were interrupted were because it was the only obvious which could have had a basis, because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the necessary documents had to be obtained: the Court's audit reports, the report of the Government's Budgetary Control Office and similar things, so that I believe that the last suspension of the 38th session of the Commission, which I caused, was strictly correct in the course due to the fact that some of the decisions that this Commission would, of course, have had to take or have taken, regardless of what the opposition's decision was. For this reason, I think it is incorrect to read out the proposed President's violation of the Rules of Procedure, inasmuch as we have seen today at least three times the violation of the Rules of Procedure by the government coalition.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you. Is there any other interest in the explanation? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you. I weighed whether to say that I would support the proposal or not, because, given that I am an opposition Member, it is in itself understandable that this proposal to form a commission with all the members of the weather is clear to me. However, it seems to me that we do not have the same attitude in the National Assembly of 90 Members and in the conduct of all of us, but above all we do not have the same vats. And I would like to point out that sometimes, when it comes to reading non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure, it is at least when it comes to the conduct of opposition Members, the "so-called" infringements of the Rules of Procedure. Of course, it's easy for someone who doesn't have an argument of power in his hands to report a violation. And such a violation, allegedly, can even be confirmed because most people have power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have already pointed out several times in these strong debates about this alleged controversial purchase that I would certainly not have experienced any request for the establishment of an investigative commission, to the extent that counter-proposer Viator Vector, where your many client colleagues sit, which is of course nothing wrong, and whose offer was more than 10 billion tolars more expensive than this offer that was chosen. But I was counting on you to have at least some sense in proposing the composition of this commission. And I do not think that you have taken advantage of your responsibilities at this point either; because it is not true what was said to be a blockade in the functioning of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances at Mercator. The blockade was created at one point. Under the leadership of respected colleague Milan Cvikl, the Commission was unable to adopt a position to amend the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, resulting in the so-called problem of buying operating tables, which has dragged on for a few months since your reign. Well, that's not the only problem. I think that the problem is the way we manage and understand responsibility, the respect of our colleagues and colleagues, which we have not received in this case. And although my colleague Pecanov may have a different opinion about me, not all of us, why, I must say at this point that the leadership of this commission, since she has been led by the Vice-President, is different. It is true that we have not come to a conclusion in this case, but that is why we have not come to a conclusion because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, she has placed our proposals on the agenda, which we have not previously witnessed and has used her business opportunity to obstruct the meeting. This is a difference, a legitimate right and a way of operating normally. I personally assess that this commission will have a very difficult job if this decision is voted today, solely because of the President you have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you. Is there any other interest? No, then I give the floor to Mr. Žnidaršič. Is there any other procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to inform the present that 15 minutes will be enough time to consider and ask for so many interruptions.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u165	I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 6:02 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u166	The time for consultation is up. I ask Members of Parliament and Members to return to the Chamber. I call again on the Members and Members to return to the Chamber. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're continuing our session. The motioner is not present and I cannot even ask him to explain or offer him, so we are moving on to a vote. We're voting. 36 Members and Members are present. We were inconclusive. We'll vote next time. 41 Members and Members are present. We're inconclusive. I'm adjourning the session. We'll pick her up in 10 minutes at 6:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-27.ana.u167	Dear Members and honourable Members! May I have your attention, please? We are moving on to the third ballot. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 14. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We turn to point (f) of the Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to determine and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of the exercise of control under the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, the amendment of legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to Mr. Willy Rezman. [[He's quitting.]] There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Rezman has been reported. [[He's quitting.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternates of the members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia's Investigative Commission for the determination and assessment of the factual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the exercise of control under the Public Prosecutor's Act, the amendment of legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional competences of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving to point g, a briefing by the Council of Justice. With regard to this point, the Commission shall inform the Council of the State of its notice, No 3/07 of 4.4.2007, that there has been an incorrect record of the name of the candidate for the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Murska Sobota, which should be properly proclaimed by Kržanko instead of Križanko. With this, I am terminating the point of the Mandate-Volution and will continue on Monday, 7 May. We are moving on to item 1 of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal by Mr Boštjan Zagorec that the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, should answer a question which he could not answer on Monday, 23 April 2007, due to his absence, on Wednesday, 25 April 2007. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 44. (For the vote was 21.)(against 44.) I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m.
