ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members! We continue the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Stanislav Brenčič, France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Ivan Jelen, Aurelio Juri, Matej Lahovnik, Marko Pavliha, Maria Pozsonec, Villa Rezman, Bojan Starman and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving on to 25. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A SAFETY LAW IN A RAILWAY. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Christmas, Minister of Transport, for further explanation. Mr. Secretary, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members! Good day to you all! In drafting the bill, the proposal was based on basic assumptions that it was necessary to implement the European acquis into our legislation and to improve the legal arrangements for rail transport in areas where it has so far been shown that regulation was not the best. With the adoption of the law, Directives 2004/49-EC and 2004/50-EC will be fully incorporated into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The first in the work which is not already introduced by the Rail Transport Act. The content of the bill brings the following solutions. It ensures the interoperability of the rail system, which includes the definition of the rail system and its subsystems, which are divided into structural and operational subsystems. A trans-European conventional rail system covering main lines and rail vehicles intended for international transport is precisely defined. The importance and implementation of the technical specifications for interoperability, in particular their mandatory direct use, is clearly defined. When using technical specifications, the role of the security authority shall be essential. In our case, the Railway Agency shall take all necessary measures to implement them in accordance with the Regulation of the European Commission by which they are applied. Procedures shall be laid down for the inclusion in the operation of individual subsystems, the acquisition of a usable permit or operating authorisation and the acquisition of a declaration of verification of the subsystem. The conditions to be met by the notified bodies and their competences are specified. On the other hand, it provides safe rail transport. That is to say that there are clear obligations of individual actors in the area of development and security and their interrelationships and instruments through which it improves. The conditions for individual subsystems to ensure the safety and control of rail transport, including the inspection system, are laid down. Those solutions that have proved necessary and effective in terms of ensuring railway safety in the current rules are preserved. Following further coordination with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee of the National Assembly adopted amendments which have legally improved the text of the law. Since it is necessary to bring those directives into line with our legal order as the deadline for the introduction has expired by the end of April 2006, and an action has also been brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities and since the text of the amendment law has been further improved, we propose that the National Assembly adopt the law at today's meeting. Thank you so much for this opening part.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Josip Bajc, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u4	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Office with Members and Fellows, distinguished colleagues and colleagues who have succeeded in taking the time to attend the meeting of this Assembly, regardless of the fact that we are considering a very important item on the agenda as the continuation of the two laws already adopted in the field of rail transport regulation. At its 20th emergency meeting, on 14.6., the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a second reading of the proposal of the Railway Safety Act. The government has proposed that the proposal for a law be dealt with in an urgent manner. At its 100th meeting, on 8.6., the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted a decision to deal with the proposed law on an urgent basis. The proposed law was given a written opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on 14.6.2007. The Community of Slovenia made comments on the proposal for a law of 20.6.2007. On behalf of the drafter of the law, the Minister of Mag. In his opening presentation, Janez Bozič highlighted the main objectives and proposals for solutions offered by the law and related to compliance with the acquis of the European Community and the Rail Transport Act in two key areas: regulation of interoperability and safety in rail transport. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its opinion, drew attention to the provisions of Article 1 of the bill, where a substantive presentation of the subject of legal regulation is given and which, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, are unclear, and to the specific comments made to the individual article of the bill not to mention them - you have them in a written report. In the debate, the members of the Committee considered that the adoption of the bill was necessary, but they considered that at least most of them considered the treatment and admission of such important matter to time pressure questionable. Some members of the committee suggested that consideration of the bill should be postponed to the July meeting of the National Assembly, but most of the proposal was not supported. Some members of the Committee also considered that the presentation of the railway safety situation was modestly presented. In particular, given the very short deadlines related to the implementation of the necessary activities and investments to address the deficiencies in rail safety. In addition to the general findings, the members of the Committee also discussed individual proposals for solutions that the proposal for a law brings. The Committee of the National Transport Assembly suspended its meeting on 14.6. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee of the National Transport Assembly held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the draft law and on all the amendments tabled by law. In doing so, he also accepted his amendments to the amendment of the members of the coalition to Article 27. The amendments were tabled by Members of Mr Milan Petk at Article 16, Article 19 and Article 119, Mr Janka Vebra at Article 85 and Article 117, and the coalition groups at Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 36, 39, 40, 41, 43, 45, 48, 49, 53, 56, 76, 79, 85, 92, 107, 108, 114, 119 and 121. The Committee of the National Transport Assembly adopted the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendment of Mr Janko Webra to 117. The Committee on Transport of the State has not adopted the amendments of Ambassador Milan Petk to Articles 116 and 119, and the amendment of Ambassador Janko Vebra to Article 85. After the discussion on the articles had been concluded, the Committee on Transport adopted and voted on the amendments and amendments tabled by the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the light of the amendments adopted and in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a further proposal of the Railway Safety Act is prepared and is an integral part of this report, which you have also received for the continuation of today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u6	Dear Minister, the Honourable Vice President! Respectable associates and colleagues of railways, colleagues and colleagues! This law is kind of necessary. Not because Europe is waiting for it or because we have many lawsuits because we have not allowed a free approach to railway infrastructure. This is less important. This law is necessary simply because of this, although it has a series of amendments and there is almost no article that would not have been supplemented is necessary because it conditions from the point of view of safety and traffic regulation those basic conditions which also provide the users of rail safety services in essence. Why didn't we have this marriage before? I was wondering myself. However, if there was no money, even this law was essentially irrelevant in order to have it before. We've got money today. In fact, we have a guarantee law that allows us to have global access to rail infrastructure. We also have the opportunity to reach out to those segments that threaten normal exploitation today. Let me say that we are the only country in Europe that does not have 22.5 tonnes of basic pressure. And that the so-called interoperable trains as this word you like to use are not able to drive with us today. I am glad that the government and the minister have found so much courage that he has placed such a guarantee law in the National Assembly. Because these funds far exceed the total resources for the entire highway programme. And many quasi experts are coming forward today. I trust you'll be here for a long time. The fact is one thing: This law of Slovenian Railways is simply needed because we can start building the duality of the track Koper-Divič, remove all bottlenecks. We can do this right after this law. So, including the renovation of the Drava Bridge, the Stairs lobby, Mr. Friday. And most importantly, we'll provide 22.5 tons of basic pressure. If you remember, you authorized 20 locomotives to be purchased in this National Assembly. These locomotives cost 1 billion tolars. Today they drive with two-thirds power because the train network is too weak because the cut is so small. If we load the locomotive, we'll get the most outage of the train network. This law will also make it possible to actually do what we want. Restoration of devices is called signal-safety techniques and will prescribe European standards. Those standards that are normal in Europe for the exchange of trains in international transport. This means that one locomotive can drive an entire train from point A to point B. It's very simple for me to tell everyone because I believe that some of you are after the dots and the commas. And those of you who will also talk today about the fact that this law is not in line with the social partners can tell you: this law is in line with the social partners. I myself have spoken with all the unions, and they cannot wait for this law to come into force, that it is the legal authority of this, because after this law the railway will be able to become a single building site. We will be happy to support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u8	A respected minister with co-workers! Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we are talking about rail safety, there is no doubt that we need to look a little wider first. With regard to the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the proposal of the Railway Safety Act, which we are adopting as a matter of urgency, it is necessary to take into account that the directives of the European Community, which we have already discussed and also adopted in the Rail Transport Act, are added today by the Railway Safety Act, which also summarizes two European directives and implements them through legislation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the importance of the public carrier, the railway, and in this regard the necessary legislation that we are adopting. When we talk about the Rail Safety Act, we need to take account of a whole. The whole certainly refers to the Rail Transport Act and the Guarantee Law for Investing in Public Railway Infrastructure. The conditions for safe rail transport are regulated infrastructure and technically flawless towed and towed railway vehicles. It is here that we have endeavoured in the SDS to create the basic conditions as soon as possible and to complete the railways and Slovenian railways as soon as possible through the proposed amendment law and the addition of the Railway Safety Act, so as to enable railway undertakings and Slovenian railway undertakings as a national carrier to create the conditions for normal operation as soon as possible. If we look back a little bit, we can find out that in the past, at least after the review of the events on the railway, the previous governments almost didn't care how and what Slovenian railways were doing. However, when railway workers began to grumble that they were running out of money for their wages, the state gave them as much as it needed. We are convinced that it is necessary to change the policy of how to rescue Slovenian railways and railways and that it is necessary to update first as I have already said public railway infrastructure. Nothing helps us yet, as well as modern well-ordered textual and under the Articles of the Railway Safety Act, if railways and railways do not have the basic conditions created for safe driving along Slovenian railway tracks. A number of amendments have been tabled from various parliamentary groups. And also from individuals, there is a demand for some areas in this law to be better regulated, but we have, both in the Transport Committee and in our Group, faced a number of problems and followed the proposaler to adopt those amendments that truly bring and improve the situation as regards the Railway Safety Act. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will adopt a law that runs by emergency procedure. We will, however, adopt all those amendments which we jointly endorsed on the Committee and those for which the applicant has made the relevant reports or justifications. Railroaders receive their railway constitution by today's confirmation of this law. The railway package is therefore closed, and we are convinced that this has enabled the national carrier and many railway workers, especially the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to drive trains in a new better direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In considering the proposal for the Railway Safety Act, we would like to draw attention in particular to the fact and concern that the law itself does not contain a description of the existing situation, which would then allow us to monitor and assess the admissibility of the content of the law or of individual articles. We are particularly concerned that the law makes it very clear that the law will have no financial consequences. If everything is so simple, why are we today lagging behind in the adoption of the law, and why are the European Union's penalties for the late regulation or introduction of the directive threatening us? And why do we today adopt this law by means of an urgent procedure, explaining that the country would otherwise have difficult remedial consequences? These are some of the key issues that we are dealing with in dealing with this law. And even in a very short period of time, and especially in a modest and deficient explanation, we can argue that this is an unfinished marriage. Which is particularly worrying. Because it is a law that must lay down the conditions for safe, orderly and unhindered public rail transport. With regard to finance, however, we would like to draw very easily attention to some facts. And these are also the arguments when we say that there are wrong claims that the law will have no financial consequences. In five years on the basis of this law, we will build in Slovenia all outside of the level crossings with roads, both state and local. This will be done by road managers. So, the country, as well as the local communities, will have to provide additional funds for this in the next five years to follow this dynamic. The question is: where are we going to take the funds for regulating passenger spaces, for the equipment of locomotives, for the construction of appropriate signal devices, for the additional benefits to executive workers, and not least, how will we and where will we improve rail infrastructure? On the basis of these concerns, we have also tabled some amendments to improve the content of the law. The Committee adopted an amendment stipulating that the National Programme for the Development and Maintenance of Railway Infrastructure will be adopted at the proposal of the Government of the National Assembly. We expect that the national programme will contain a description of the situation, the necessary measures and the financial implications. In this way, we feel that it is possible to make up for the current shortcomings of this law. That before we arrive at the implementation stage, we will also have detailed information in the National Assembly on what we will do on the railways and what will be the financial consequences. Although no amendment has been adopted on the committee, with which we are correcting the uncertainty as to what the time of the direct journey is. This is a new item in this. There was no such concept in the existing texts of the law. However, the fact is that direct travel can take up to 12 hours, as long as it takes to change the executive worker. So we will be able to face the fact that someone will manage a direct journey and at the same time carry out their working hours. The law also introduces a 30-minute break. This can also be a mandatory break, which can mean that in Slovenia every day for half an hour we will have a deadlock in the railway system, so that the locomotives and all the workers can simply put off their jobs and wait for half an hour's land mines and then continue with the traffic. I'm sure that's not comparable. Especially if we take a comparison of the German railway. And how will we become competitive, successful and fast so that we believe that this law raises really many new issues and also raises big questions about the statement made by the Director-General of the Slovenian Railway Holding, that the loss on the Slovenian Railways will be reduced and that the business of the company will be more successful. I'm sorry. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The law cannot be understood. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u12	Hello, everyone! Before the so-called quasi experts, as Mr Friend says, speak up, I would like to present our position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy. The matter of the Railway Safety Act regulates an extremely important area of safety in the Slovenian rail system and its interoperability. This is a demanding technical and technical law, and therefore, in the LDS Club, we believe that as such it must be the subject of competent professional public and preparation. We don't know how much this professional public has been involved in his preparation. We know, however, that the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, which has extensive experience in correcting the bad legal texts proposed by the Government, has been involved in its reform process. At the LDS Club, we trust our Legal and Legislative Service, because the bad government laws so far have still been able to correct them to such an extent that they could even be adopted. With regard to the proposed law, we would like to draw attention in particular to two important facts at the LDS. For the first time, as I have already mentioned, the law introduces the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, but 14 months too late. The deadline for transposition of the Directives into national law was 30 April 2006. As a result, on 5 June this year the European Commission brought its first action against Slovenia before the Luxembourg Court of Justice. The action is an epilogue of serious warnings by the European Commission that Slovenia is delaying the introduction of the rail system directives. She warned the Ministry of Transport herself and failed to perform this task for 29 months. This is why Slovenia has unfortunately been sued for the first time before the Luxembourg court. Another time. That this time for real, this means a fine, she obviously also met the government. The adoption of the law by emergency procedure was based on the fact that in the event of non-compliance with the requirements of both Directives there could be difficult remedial consequences. Read: "Let Slovenia face a high fine of money before the Luxembourg court." Regrettably, the consequences of such urgent procedures are always reflected primarily in poor quality and in errors in the marriage text. Even some coalition members have come to understand that the urgency of the procedure is not acceptable for such important, extensive and professionally demanding laws as the proposed Railway Safety Act. Despite our finding that it is not possible to deal with and decide on the amendments, since Members received them only at the beginning of the meeting, the government majority of the opposition's proposals rejected them and accepted 44 amendments to the bill in just 35 minutes without discussion. In the LDS, we can only protest in this way by the government majority and we want such a way of adopting the legal text to have no major impact on its quality and thus on the safety of the railway system itself. Finally, at the LDS Club, we want to point out the culprit for the situation. And this is indisputably the first man of the Ministry, Mr. Minister Mag. Janez Christmas. In the rail system, it has proved to be extremely incompetent and, above all, insolvent. As the only objective, he and his colleagues have reorganised the not yet fully reorganised rail system and have therefore used rather clumsyly the transfer of changes to domestic legislation in the European acquis. This is how the railway system deals with itself instead of resolving key and fatal development issues. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister is primarily acting as Minister for Highways. And we're admitting that to him. The weak state of the rail system, the loss of investment in rail infrastructure, the dilapidated public passenger transport, the weak traffic policy, which remains a dead letter on paper in the form of an adopted resolution, the failure to respond to the traffic and environmental problems caused by the rapid growth of road freight traffic, the first action before the Luxembourg court are the characteristics that mark the mandate of the current minister. We don't even know if it's prudent for President Janša to propose to make a replacement. Especially because he appointed people from his client to key positions in the railway system. Nevertheless, we propose to Mr Janša that he appoint a professionally broader man to serve as the first minister of the Transport Ministry. One that won't be susceptible to pressure within the rail system. For that, do it, Mr. Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and honourable Members! Nice greeting on my behalf and on behalf of the New Slovenia Group! We're talking about traffic safety, which we'll never say or write any last words about. Sometimes even when we talk or write about traffic safety in general, more accidents and casualties seem to be recorded. It's like we don't know how to do things in the right place and for the key reasons, especially for the key reasons. Of course, transport does not end at the state border, so security in transport is not only a matter of one country but a wider community. The rules for the behaviour of participants in transport are not limited to one country. This is why the proposal for a new Railway Safety Act introduces two European Community directives into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The first requires the establishment of a security and investigation authority, the second intervention in the regulation of interoperability on conventional speed lines. Both of them, however, have an impact on rail safety. The law aligns itself with the solutions adopted in the field of railway safety by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Transport. In particular, the main interoperability solutions and principles are: Firstly, the definition of the rail system and its subsystems, which are divided into structural and operational subsystems, is defined. Secondly, the trans-European conventional speed rail system, which covers the main lines and railway vehicles intended for international transport, is precisely defined. Thirdly, the importance and implementation of technical specifications for interoperability is clearly defined. In particular their obligations, compulsory direct application, which consequently also means the termination of the national security rules in whole or in part to which a specific technical specification for interoperability concerns. Fourthly, procedures for the integration into the operation of individual subsystems are specified. Acquisition of a valid authorisation or authorisation to operate and obtain a declaration of verification of the subsystem. However, the main security solutions are as follows. Firstly, there are clear obligations of individual actors in the area of development and security. The Ministry of Transport, the Manager, the Carriers, the Security Authority of the Investigative Authority and their mutual relations and instruments through which it only improves. Secondly, conditions are laid down for individual subsystems ensuring the safety and control of rail transport, including the inspection system. Thirdly, the law also defines the protection of the lines. And fourthly, the law also defines the intersection of the track and the road. As far as rail safety is concerned, I would like to add and remind you that this government has earmarked 99 billion former Slovenian tolls for investment. Also in the direction and in particular in the direction of higher safety on Slovenian railways. The New Slovenia Group did not oppose the urgent procedure for the adoption of the Railway Safety Act. We have also supported all the amendments that have followed the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the home working body, which are an improvement to the proposed text. The deadline for harmonisation and the introduction of requirements into our legal order expired at the end of April 2006. However, the amendment of the Rail Transport Act was adopted in February. There may be so many details about the genetics of the law itself and information to those who are experiencing great delays in the adoption of this law. But if we're late, then I'd like to remind you of a little bit more. This is a referendum held in Slovenia in early 2003 which once again showed that the previous government of will expressed at this referendum was unable to realize the full two years. Nobody's talking about this late today. However, some memories do not leave us. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the Railway Safety Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will probably not say anything new if I say that we will support the proposal of the Railway Safety Act in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. I'm not an expert, and even less so is an expert when I'm one of my colleagues. When he represented the position of the Group of Members, I listened, I found that I was not at the right point of the agenda. It was true, at least the content of the debate was interpretation against the Minister of Transport. I suggest this at another point in the agenda or at another meeting of the National Assembly. The next thing I would like to say is because of the poor situation in the Slovenian Railways, it was necessary to deal with this law and to adopt it. However, the reason why I do not possibly apologise here or here for the professional services of the Ministry, nor for the Ministry itself, that it is only now the adoption of this law that this law is the continuation of certain other laws. However, we know how the Rail Transport Act was formed and then the Rail Investment Guarantees Act. On this occasion, I should say, not only the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, while I had said earlier in the Committee's report, had comments. Some, though, are beautiful or are merely lecturing the text. Some were also contentious. The Committee’s professional service as well as the Ministry of Transport’s professional service have drawn up such amendments, which define matters more comprehensively and effectively in the context of the Railway Safety Act. The existing Rail Transport Act, now in force, was adopted in 2000 and then amended in 2003. I mentioned earlier that we had adopted the Rail Transport Act a long time ago, and the continuation of this is the actual adoption of today's law, which also actually introduces the provisions of the European Railway Safety Directives. By doing so, we will be able to be comparable in the field of regulation and operationality, as well as in the field of security, to meet what already requires in the European Union of the adopted directives. I wouldn't talk about major solutions. In view of the fact that all of this is recorded in an inexhaustible explanation for the law itself. I would only like to remind those who say that the explanation in the first part is modest, but in the second part there are more than 20 pages of explanation of the individual articles of the bill. As it is said, due to the need to adopt this law and to be able to revive the Rail Transport Act, as well as the Guarantees Act, which we have adopted to invest in the improvement of the rail system, we will support in the Slovenian People's Party's Group the complementary proposal of the law, as well as the amendments that have been put in place by such professional services, and in particular the Section of the National Assembly, the Legislative and Legal Service. That there are other things that I think are two or three just editorial in nature. One, I think, as far as section 92 of the Act is concerned, this law is being improved. I expect that we will be able to start implementing the Railway Safety Act as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are truly aware of the importance and urgency of the adoption of the Railway Safety Act. We are truly aware that security is a value not only in Slovenia, but everywhere in the world in all nations takes the place right now or even the first place in the list of values. That is why it is so important to regulate the area of transport in that sector which touches security. That is why we do not understand, and it is almost unacceptable to adopt this law with such delay. Perhaps the only reason is that what is connected to the railway is always delayed, normal and very common. However, if such a need exists, it is incomprehensible why the Government, or the decision on the emergency procedure, has fallen. Such important laws are not adopted in the way we have witnessed the adoption of this law. The only luck is that the leader or chairman of the Committee on Transport is a respected Mr Bajc, who speaks very quickly, because if he did not speak so quickly, he would not even be able to list all the articles that have been amended within the time available. This indicates that the marriage was not well prepared. However, in that part of the decision to discuss and adopt a short-term emergency procedure, it means that a large part of the profession has been eliminated. In particular, all local communities, which are still connected and important in ensuring security, have been eliminated. All the mayors, the mayors, and, above all, the people who live on the ground know that. And if anything, then safety in rail transport is still connected to life in all congregations, in all places. And if, as has been pointed out, there is no financial obligation under this law, we ask ourselves, or we are concerned: How will all the problems that will arise and are already present on the ground be solved in providing security in that segment when railways encounter other traffic flows and the population? Therefore, I repeat to us it is unacceptable that this law was carried out in this way. First of all, there were no answers to both meetings of the Committee to the questions posed to the Minister or the ruling representatives, who voted us twice to take at least 14 days to deal with this law at the July session. We know that it is almost immediately after the end of June that the July session is scheduled. And three times a very clear and loud question has been raised, what is so urgent that we accept it today, at the June session. There was no answer. I hope that today's honourable Minister will respond to what that necessity is, given that we know that the time limit for adoption was April 2006. Which is a long time ago and that a lawsuit was filed in February and that probably a month or 14 days meant nothing against those deadlines which are already overdue. I therefore hope that the Minister will answer what is really the main reason that we are so hasty and that we have obviously poorly prepared or, at least, incomprehensiblely adopted this law in such a way. And that is why I repeat, despite the fact that we are truly aware of the importance of the adoption of this law in our parliamentary group, or even as a colleague of the SDS said it is a railway or railway constitution. The Constitution is probably nowhere and never accepted by emergency procedure, but we take the time to do so and, above all, open a broader debate as far as possible. Nevertheless, we will be happy that this law will be adopted, as it will bring more security than it is today. However, in this way we do not want to participate. Because those who voted us on the committees when we wanted a broader debate when we wanted to accept this at the July session I am sure today they will play the same role as the voting machine and this law will also be adopted. Therefore, our group will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are going to discuss the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 22.6.2007, which you have just received on the bench. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 6 of the SDS, SLS and Nova Slovenija. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am making an amendment to Article 14 of the SDS, NSI and SLS. Anybody want to talk? Yes, Mr. Weber, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Well, we are proposing an amendment to this article with a view to clarifying or at least setting out the conditions that staff in an extremely important body must have. For it is an independent body that monitors the implementation of interoperability and the coordination of the whole system and the functioning of the whole system. It must not even be connected in the design phase with this system, I would say even less in the construction, monitoring, monitoring phase. In short, it is an independent body, which, at least after what is written in the current text of the law, does not have certain criteria, but who should actually make up this high professional body. The article only speaks of having an appropriate professional and vocational education. But don't talk about what an appropriate professional and professional education is. And he's talking about having enough practice in this area. What is this - enough practice? Is it one year, two years of work experience, or is it possible to train? In short, given the extremely important importance of the notified body, it is nevertheless necessary to specify in this law who in this notified body can be authorised to manage individual parts. We have already said that there is very little information and interpretation about this law. The article itself is extremely costly to create some clearer criteria for the composition of the notified body. However, we believe that members or staff in the notified body should have at least a professional examination of the competence to assess the conformity of interoperability constituents and, of course, their suitability to use and implement the verification procedure of subsystems and their components, as prescribed by the Minister. We also believe that in order to achieve specific knowledge of the rules related to the checks they carry out, at least five years of work should have experience in a particular area for which this expert will also be appointed to this notified body. These are some of the minimum conditions in our opinion that we want to define the composition of the notified body. Otherwise, we believe that the applicant himself should provide more information on the composition of this notified body and, of course, on the work experience, expertise and the like. In so doing, it might also point to the fact that if we also get information, if this notified body is in Slovenia, the national authority or if I can call it a civil authority. It's both possible. So that at least an explanation can be given in terms of how we think in Slovenia, whether the work of the notified body will be carried out by the state authority or left behind, I will say, the formation of a civil initiative or an enterprise initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. We are through the consideration of the extremely difficult, as regards the expertise of the Railway Safety Act, to find out all the time that it is true that it is a very professional terminology and that it is necessary to look at in almost every article in some way at the more detailed explanations that can also be found in the bill. Of course, this article is also difficult to understand. It is necessary to state and point out that, following the adoption of the Railway Safety Act, 107 provisions, instructions, regulations, which are acts of law, will still apply. And in these instructions, orders, regulations are defined by these specifics, and I will say this professionally demanding terminology, which accurately defines or explains a particular area. With regard to the proposal for an amendment to Article 19, I must say which proposed by the SD that we have adopted on the Committee on Transport amendments and certain amendments or additions. The simplified text was also in line with the Legislative and Legal Service. So it's more precisely defined. Of course, in the SDS of this amendment proposed by the SD, we will not confirm.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u23	Mr Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. I must admit, therefore, that Article 19 itself, as amended by the Transport Committee, has substantially corrected and improved the previous text on these tasks of the notified body and on the position of the notified body. So that the Legislative and Legal Service here, of course, together with the Ministry's representatives, has taken an important step in determining the body that performs such important tasks. I appreciate that the text proposed by the SD actually further improves that part of the article, which is talking about these conditions that experts should meet or that should work in the notified body. So I think that this text should also be acceptable to the representatives of the ministry, and I think it is appropriate to give it a green light. It is that this step from the first part or the first draft of the law is made in the right direction. Thus, the first draft of the law indicated, especially if we link it to Article 119 in order to double the tasks of this notified body, which must not be reached. In fact, this article eliminated what was stated in Article 119. That is why I think that this 19th article is better than it was, but that it could therefore be adequately supplemented by these conditions proposed by the SD. In particular, I would like to say this and perhaps some of you know that in fact the conditions for the notified body are already met by some who have actually submitted applications and this basis or have already expressed this application for the notified body. The minister has to cut down on these roles. Review these applications and decide relatively quickly for those bodies or institutions that will do so. This, however, can be as Mr Weber has already said, either civil law or public service. That's why I think the mystery here is gone, and that these conundrums for this 19th article have been removed. However, I think this amendment complements and further improves this Article 19.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Squeak. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Given that the law is under urgent procedure and that these discussions took place at urgent meetings of the Transport Committee even at the time of the State Assembly, it is extremely difficult to monitor the debate on the Railway Safety Act. However, I do not understand the positions of colleagues in the ruling coalition to oppose an amendment which, in fact, merely sets out more precisely what are the conditions under which persons will be able to identify this so-called compatibility of interoperability constituents. I estimate that we have a law that has arrived on a substantive basis at the speed of the National Assembly. Interestingly, the Minister signed that the law is in line with the European acquis on 27 March 2007. Only two months later, the government accepted it. The National Assembly, however, has less than three weeks to adopt a very important law. The question I have with regard to this amendment to the Minister is of a dual nature. First, what does the Ministry imagine? We have already asked on behalf of the parliamentary group who will be, which institution will this notified body be, who will be empowered to assess the conformity of interoperability constituents? And second. What are the costs involved? Why do I ask that? I ask this because the law is written on page 8, the bill has no financial implications for the state budget and other public finances. At the very least, it would have to be written that if the law had not been adopted, of course, a penalty would have been imposed on Slovenia because of its action before the European courts. But I don't think that's true. I think this marriage has consequences. It has consequences for all investments that will have to be made to ensure that the conditions of the Railway Safety Act are met. And in connection with this article, of course, there is also the cost of this body, whatever and wherever it will be. I would therefore, of course, ask if the Government would present us more precisely, as it has so far done on the home working body, more precisely than has been said in the introductory presentations and more precisely as stated on page 8 of the financial implications. I estimate that the financial implications can range from 0 to 8 billion euros. Because, in a document, the government has adopted a proposal for investments in railways, amounting to EUR 8, billion or almost EUR 2,000 billion by 2023. I don't know, the Ministry has drafted a law, you say the law has no financial implications. However, in this open article with the amendment, we see that there will be some financial consequences. I would therefore ask, today, when we are great halls, when we are discussing this important law before the Slovenian public: "What will these effects possibly be, what will these effects, which will affect the necessary investments at the level or individual "local communities", if any, if any? Above all, what will be the investments in this new or improved railway infrastructure that will meet the requirements of the safety law? And not to go beyond this article: Directly, what are the costs for this body? Later, if the Minister explains more precisely, we will be pleased to ask about some other open, articles and costs related to articles which are open or articles and laws in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u27	Mr. Joseph Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are under Article 19 and the amendment to Article 19 which partially amends paragraph 6 of this Article. First of all, I would like to comment that the way in which this item is dealt with is exactly the same as all treatments dealt with under the urgent procedure, both in the home working body and in the plenary session of the National Assembly, since the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly have been in force. The government has proposed a rapid procedure. At the College of the President of the National Assembly, this procedure was confirmed and so did I, as Chairman of the Committee. This is what we do today. Depending on the procedure, amendments can be tabled. We have seen that the Committee's expert services prepared the review of the amendments just before we began to consider this item on the agenda, which is my compliment. Finally, as I would like to say, I would indeed like to ask the representatives of the Ministry or the Minister himself to comment on this amendment. In my opinion, it is also slightly more defined in fact who is the person responsible for carrying out the tasks referred to in the preceding paragraph. It is said that the notified body and what conditions this notified body must fulfil in order to be able to perform these tasks. I would like to comment on whether this amendment, which actually adds only one paragraph, and more precisely, the other two are practically on the Committee with the amendment as amended, or is further improving this paragraph. At least in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I note that, however, when we are talking about individual amendments and individual articles, which are in the proposal for a law, we should also look at the report on the proposal of the Railway Safety Act, where it is precisely defined by an article and, in the meantime, Article 19. It says exactly: The notified body is the subject and so on I do not read it. But I'd like to remind you again of what I said before. However, we need to know that, on the basis of this Railway Safety Act, 107 sub-legislative acts are more precisely defined. And I don't think it's necessary to add anything, because what the Law and Law Service has done in this and many other amendments has helped me define the text, simplify it, or better understand it, so that I don't see any need to spread or accept any other amendments. That what we adopted on the Committee, which was in line with the Legislative and Legal Service, well-defined these matters. Well, maybe look at this when we're considering amendments, let's look at the amendments. Because we always have a number of amendments to intervene in the middle, and if we always interfere with whether the Minister of Transport is just a Minister of Roads or a Minister of Railroads. However, I must point out that as much as the current Minister is also committed to making progress with his team and to correct what has been delayed in the past, it is necessary to make up for it now and it must be acknowledged. And at all the important events and also at his performances he always highlights the railway as an important national carrier and I find this kind of encouraging that he is a minister for roads and not for railways. So, colleagues and colleagues, let's avoid these words. As far as financial implications are concerned. Look, I believe my colleague Squeakle is more professional in this area than I am. And I'm probably more in the rail field. However, when we talk about financial consequences, yes, of course, every law has financial implications, and it is misleading the public to say that the law has no financial implications. Then let us define in accordance with legislation or what the Government has when determining whether or not the law has financial implications. Of course he does, but there's still a limit when we talk about it. The law has financial implications. Take and such, and we can also define them in detail. Therefore, I think that whether the law has financial implications or not, let us avoid these definitions and let us really go deeper into the amendments and additions and all the amendments we are considering, and we will probably make a more rational use of this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I, too, have this view of sticking to the content of that article or amendment that we are discussing. I'm supposed to have a replica of Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u32	Very briefly. Given that Mr Marinic has somehow deceived me, why I am talking about the financial consequences. Some say Mârinič, some say Marinic, some say Marinic. Mr Marinič, the problem with the financial consequences is that I agree with you - the law has financial implications. However, the government on page 8 writes: "The bill has no financial implications". And if they were very correct, the President of the National Assembly would return this law to the Government because we are not all aware of the financial consequences, Mr Marinic. And that's all I've ever warned you. So what are these financial consequences, what will be the costs in relation to the open article, what will be the total cost? Because the government knows there are financial consequences. However, he hides them from the Slovenian public. However, this is not the way in which laws are adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Laws must have defined financial implications. Let me remind you, yesterday we discussed the law on scholarships with very clear financial implications, otherwise for the term of office of the next government. There will be financial consequences immediately, but not a word of them. That's why I said, "There can be between 0 tolars and 8 billion euros," as the Government wrote in another document, as well as in the government's adopted document. That is why I think we agree, fellow Member, that the Government should answer us why it wrote here that there are no financial consequences and what are the financial consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u33	Mr. Friend has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to stress once again that this law is truly necessary. Now if you want - understand, if you don't, you can have a demagogue debate ahead. Just two questions, either directly or indirectly. The answer to these claims. The submarital acts in connection with this law are truly numerical, but that's negligible. This law allows for the release of investments in railway infrastructure. This is important. As far as the financial implications are concerned, Mr. Squeakle, yes, because you left a 70 billion-dollar hole, we've been "flashing" it for how long. That's why the railroads stepped on the border, they stepped on the ground! I've told you before that there's a lot of economic damage going on from day to day. We bought 20 locomotives, a billion tolars is one worth, we use it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u35	I can remind you that we are talking about an amendment to this and this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u36	Yeah, I'll be right back. As far as this amendment is concerned, I'd like to ask nicely. I believe that this cannot be done in this law to take into account the national interest when important matters are being decided later on, who will drive all the more after this Slovenian railway infrastructure. In fact, Holding Slovenian Railways can quickly lose all profitable goods unless we take the upper limit into account in the safety certificate. You know, the pressure of the international public is not because Slovenia has not passed the law. Don't go blind with that. Nor is it because Slovenia has actually waited so long. The pressure of the international public is because some would like to come to us in our railway infrastructure, drive with their vehicles and tows and, of course, draw extra profits to their gyro accounts. That's it. Of course, this is the European principle of a free approach to equal opportunities for the movement of people and services. That's right. However, if Slovenia is unable to take account of this law later, when licensing licences are issued, of national interest, as other countries have done, then we have fallen again on this exam. It is a very important day for me, 3.7. when we, together with the Committee on Transport and the Committee on the Economy, will, in fact, take note of all the problems on the railway infrastructure, with the lukewarm open issues, and try to hope in a constructive debate, together with the Minister, one and the other, to find solutions, we may also appoint expert groups to speed up this work. Today is no longer a money problem. Today is the problem of the time that Slovenia is losing. We're losing the battle with time. We can't lose the war. If we also lose the war over time, I speak in railway terms, then Slovenian railway infrastructure will remain an island in the middle of Europe. Transport routes are already taking place, are already being implemented and are already being commercially marketed. Croatia predicts a significant breakthrough investment in the river-Budapest connection. And if we don't know by this law too, protect Slovenian interest when we issue licenses to do so, and this article speaks, then we'll actually give the hens carrying golden eggs out of the hen house. And that can't happen. That's what I've been pointing out to the Committee. This article is very important to me. I hope that later in the preparation of the professional acts that will set out the criteria for licensing, we will be able to find so much wisdom that we will, in fact, integrate it into licensing procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u37	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Very briefly. In Article 19, we summarized the text of Directive 2001/16. The designation of the notified body shall be subject to the responsibility of the Ministry of the Economy in accordance with the procedures and conditions laid down in the rules governing accreditation and technical requirements for products and conformity assessment. It is true that we have already received applications to be addressed by the competent market minister. As far as the issue of direct financial implications is concerned, my comment is as follows. This is definitely one of the key laws to be supplemented by the Rail Transport Act, which generally regulates the rail system in the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, it was created as a means of implementing planned projects already implemented in the framework of the Resolution on Development Projects of the Republic of Slovenia, where we prepared a plan for the modernisation of the railway network in the Republic of Slovenia. So it is indeed the training of the conditions for what also Mr Members Friend very clearly said, including Mr Marinič, to create the conditions for investing in modernisation and renewal in the rail system. Also from all angles due to increased speed, due to greater safety in the rail system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you. With regard to the notified body and the conditions to be met, I expected an answer or a somewhat broader explanation of the applicant. It was said that this was a summary of the text of the Directive. So for a very broad and undefinable diction. However, the Directive does not specifically provide for all conditions. However, it expects legislation and national legislation to be more precise here. Even if we are looking at the explanation of this Article, the notified body must comply with the conditions laid down by the Accreditation Act. What does this Accreditation Act provide? Does it set a working period? Will those who will have to do this professional work determine their professional qualifications? We don't know. It then refers to the Law on Technical Requirements for Products. So, we're talking about products. We're not talking about staff. However, the explanation of this law states that the notified body must also comply with the conditions laid down in this Act, which we are adopting today, concerning the staff and the means required to carry out the activity. And if we look at these conditions that staff must meet, they are not defined in this law, because they summarize practically only a directive that is very general. However, if any of the sub-laws also speak of this, then at least in my opinion, these sub-laws should be listed in the explanation for this Article. Unfortunately, they are not listed. These are 107, as you say. However, one of them is not mentioned as referring to the notified body. So whether it's really too much I'm going to say burden, or whether it's a professional condition when we talk about whether it's an expert exam, whether it's a conformity assessment of interoperability constituents, and whether it's five years of work experience in a particular area for which an expert will be appointed is what we want to define. If it's too much, too little to say. But right now I have to say we didn't get that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u41	Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'm not going to repeat what colleague Weber said. But in some ways, I feel that lately the laws we receive in the National Assembly simply refer to the copy of the directive. However, they do not comply with local specifications. Or if you want, there's no will. Nor does the amendment, which is more substantively correct, which, in our view, provides for conditions, provide for this willingness to accept. Because, as you say, it's not in the directive. Once again, the directive lays down conditions for goods. However, each country can handle matters on its own. And if I go back to the second one, what Mr. Secretary said. See, Mr Minister, you said that this law, together with the Rail Transport Act, made it possible to comply with the resolution on national projects. You know, I don't care about Resolution until 2023. However, I would like to know how much you will spend in 2007 and 2008 following the adoption of this law to fulfil the condition of Article 51 of this Act in conjunction with Article 119. Simplify. In five years, there is a need for existing level crossings along the road of the first row of highways to be made as outposts in five years. How much money is that, and how much will you invest in extra out-of-military crossings in 2007 and 2008? Why am I saying that? Because you can easily write it down here. But don't tell me how much it's gonna cost. I think it's right to do that. However, you must also make it clear how much you will define under this law already, and this is a fundamental issue of assessing the financial implications in the 2007 and 2008 budget. And, Minister, there is no tolar in the budget for 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Minister, it says here, not even a tolar is foreseen. With regard to the Guarantee Act, Mr Minister, we know well that it is necessary to make a certain amount of connection with the Rail Transport Act, with which we have withdrawn the Guarantee Act if you want the state budget, only to do and implement it with the 2007 budget rebalancing. But on your government you said that in the next four years, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, this law has no financial implications. Does this mean that non-military crossings will not start building until 2011? This needs to be made clear before the Slovenian public. As it says here, now you say that there are no extra out-of-level crossings in the next three years. Otherwise you have to write some numbers here or tell us how many of these investments there will be. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'm guessing there's no more debaters. We can conclude this general debate, which was not envisaged. And I'd like to ask you to follow further amendments so you can really stick to the agenda or I'll interrupt. Because this is really past what the President is leading and what the debate is about. I conclude the debate with article 19 of the Group of Social Democrats. We are moving on to the 31st article and amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Weber, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you. If we are talking about rail safety, surely Article 31 is one of those that is very important for the implementation of this law. Indeed, it concerns an investigative body which is a permanent authority for the investigation of accidents and is competent to carry out an investigation in accordance with the provisions of this law and the law governing rail traffic. In our view, what is poorly recorded in this law is that the investigating authority, while having access to all data, has access to all information. In the end, however, he must not suggest guilt or responsibility for an accident. This law explicitly prohibits the investigating authority from assuming guilt and liability for an accident. We are asked about the purpose of such an investigative body, which will, otherwise, collect some data so that some statistics can speak over the years, yes, this and this has come together, this and this problem has arisen on the railway and there has been an accident. However, who is responsible for the failure to fulfil something and why the accident occurred, this commission must not even give an assumption. That seems very inappropriate to us. For to flee from responsibility means to flee primarily from safety in rail transport. This must by no means be the subject of this law. The other way around. Therefore, the proposed deletion of part of the text, which speaks of the fact that such an investigative authority must not establish a presumption of guilt or responsibility for an accident. And if we add only the fact contained in Article 34, which is unfortunately not open, it speaks of the investigating authority being able to submit a report within 12 months of the occurrence of the accident. So, one year can pass before the investigating authority can even submit a final report. Which means that this article also does not speak of caring for greater security and effective problem-solving, but leaves a period of time, in fact, too long, for something to be resolved. Unfortunately, this article is not open. In our view, this period may be three, four months, not 12 months. But this can no longer be fixed because the article is not open. However, we believe that this body must have the opportunity to at least give an opinion on who is responsible for the accident.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u45	There are no further debates on this amendment. That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the consideration of the amendment to the 79th Article of the SDS, NSI, SLS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendment to the 85th member of the Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Mr. Weber, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. This Article refers to the change of enforcement railway workers and adds an additional option during the duration of the exchange that someone has already made his change on the basis of a direct journey. Let me point out that this concept of direct travel in marriage is not justified at all. And we don't know what this is about. We believe that this is also one of the key shortcomings of this law because it opens up overheads. It increases the cost of operating Slovenian railways. At the same time, we do not even know what this journey is and why it comes about. And why, even in the proposaler's view, a direct journey can take up to 12 hours, as long as it takes to change, can take a direct journey. We find it unacceptable that someone would have done a job in 12 hours just for traveling in a train car from one place to another. In addition, Slovenia is a smaller country compared to others. Do we really have to count on someone from home, for example, to come to work in 12 hours? That is why we want to give the amendment, at least in part, an opportunity for the employer, so Slovenian railways, to assess and organise their work so that the direct journey is not longer than 1 hour. But if it's longer, it's okay. We're allowing the estimate to even add up to working hours, these changes. Although, once again, we do not even know what this concept of direct travel means. It's not justified in marriage. However, it is a new concept, which was not legal in the current legislation in this area. Since it is a fact that when the law is passed, once you have passed something, it is difficult to change it, especially if we know that Slovenian railways are run by trade unions, not by administration, not by the ministry, etc. In short, we feel that this concept is inappropriate and too loose, as it is enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u48	I would suggest that the Government explain the concept and the position of this amendment. I mean, minimally. Otherwise, we're talking empty here. Let the Government explain to us the arguments, the reasons for and what it is and whether it is an amendment whereby we somehow define this matter for a time that is longer than an hour, assuming that one hour of travel to work today is something normal. Is this normal, time-related? What does that mean in this particular case? So, minimally, Mr President, if the Government answers our question and position on the amendment that we have proposed and which I believe is correct, and in particular affects whether we are testing whether anyone really controls the railway.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u49	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. For a quick answer. The content of this amendment has already been taken into account in the preliminary procedure of the amendments of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I have really been calling for the third time to try to help my colleagues in particular when they really find themselves in the midst of what individual professional expressions mean. However, on the Committee on Transport, we have coordinated this terminology with the Legislative and Legal Service, we have tried to explain it, and through this procedure we have also received an answer that can explain certain views, say, or ambiguities. And I agree that it is difficult for Members and Members to understand now what this is or what railways call "directional time". This is the time when the driver - say - comes from place A to place B to take the locomotive and train there and then from place B to place A. However, with regard to difficult terminology. Once again, on the basis of the individual articles of the law under consideration, I say exactly how many instructions, regulations and all that. In his explanation, Mr Weber, the explanation also states exactly what this extensive material is about, and so on. So you have to take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u54	We understand he's coming. We can understand, however, about the journey from point A to point B. It is difficult to understand that in Slovenia someone is making an exchange in such a way as to travel from Maribor to Koper. He travels 12 hours and does his job. After he can't take over the locomotive in Koper, he's coming home for the next 12 hours. And that's how he travels all the time. This is the problem, the organisation of Slovenian railways. And now we're going to legislate that someone from Maribor will be able to drive to Koper on a daily basis. He won't even take the locomotive there. And we can only solve this problem if we hire an additional driver, an additional executive, so that one can travel, the other can drive something, and then they can switch. That's the problem. And we're legitimizing it. And even if it was previously in the law, I understand. But once we put it in the law, it's a completely different dimension. And the unions will use this with favor for those who will only support their additional benefits to the union and then pay for their services by not doing the job, but only traveling from one point to another.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Squeak. Minimum time, a few seconds. You won't. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm reading the basic text we had on the committee. As we said before, three services have helped to improve the text of this article. The amendment was adopted in this section of Article 85(e). The basic text stated that the change of the enforcement worker should not take more than 12 hours. Then there's point 2. During the duration of the change shall be considered. In the basic text we wrote in the point or it was written in point e: time for direct travel up to 12 hours. The amendment, which was adopted and which is now partially amended by colleague Weber, says the text, we are considering the text, and says, the time of the direct journey in the course of the change. And I think that's enough. So the change is we know how long it takes to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about what directing time is, it's not just coming to a goal, you know. For those of you who don't know, I'm going to say a little more operational. The arrival at work can be accurate and is, as a rule, permanent. Because it's consistent with the place of residence. Very often, it happens that there is a direct time at the time of the start of the work. Directorial time is also counted when in fact a worker is taken to a different location where a train is prepared. In particular, I speak for the Koper-Divača-Sežana area and takes over the train, which is arranged and prepared in Divaca. From Kopra in direct, he goes to Divaco, in Divaca takes the train and continues to change. That should be taken into account if you don't know. Why such a stretch in this article? Because all former authorities have so neglected railway infrastructure. We have a truck today you don't know, and nobody talks about it a million minutes late! More than a million. Infrastructure is in absolutely unsatisfactory condition and slow driving orders are increasing from day to day. This also generates costs for the normal transport of a nettone kilometre. And for these things in such an abandoned state, the former guardians are also responsible for such great economic damage. Railways are not competitive in their operational sense. Today it is a commercial speed for the freight trains of the distinguished lady and gentlemen 35 kilometers an hour to pour yourself pure wine. You are philosophies and you are demagogically discussing this while the facts are clear. There are experts here to throw that away, what I just said. And as long as you talk like that, investments and actual global renovations on Slovenian railways will not start. We have 9,000 employees. I say 'we' planned, because I have signed to come back to the same position after this term of office as probably Dr. Peter Verlič, if he does not get the appropriate mandate to continue. That's why I'm saying it. You, Mr. Friday, don't care what happens in Maribor. And it doesn't matter that the locomotives from the Wall Bridge forward to Maribor can't be new because there's no 22.5-ton basic pressure. You don't care. The only thing you care about is your demagogic debates. I would ask that we stop these stupid and almost meaningless debates and that you are aware of the responsibility that you have left 70 billion large holes in the budget. You threw under the rug of the facts, prepared business reports, trained your staff at the expense of Slovenian Railways, who were never employed there. And today you hope to moralize what is right and what is wrong with railways! Let them start working professionally to start approaches, implement projects that have supported financial arrangements and are included on the European scales of the first 30 projects. I was critical of the minister. Until it has been taken by the Government this step to really approach the implementation of a comprehensive solution to the railway problem - and that is today. So all that remains to be said is essentially very, very irresponsible of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I would kindly ask that we stick to the content and not continue the general debate. I'd like to ask nicely! Mr. Marinic has the floor. We are talking about Article 85 and the amendment: in the second paragraph, the text of the last point is amended to read: "The time of a direct journey in the course of a change that is longer than one hour." What's been said here! A little bit about that. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u60	Thank you so much for your words, Mr. Vice President! You know, I will remain within the framework of the amendment to Article 85, which we are considering. I will remain within the framework of those colleagues who today perform populistally on individual amendments. Mr. Weber, your performance in a particular case seems more populism. If you read the complete materials that we have discussed on the Transport Committee, you can find that, at the 85th Article, we have added to the Committee of Transport, as Mr Josip Bajc said, the duration of a direct journey in the course of the exchange and recorded in the fifth paragraph: "the criterion for working in the shifts of executive workers and other conditions relating to rest and other issues of work in the shifts is prescribed by the Minister in agreement with the Minister responsible for the work". And not now "a priori" to say in advance that we are adopting the law and the content of the law that gives railway unions the power to manage. Don't hold it. For it is specified exactly how and what procedure is to come, who is he that further prescribs. So, the competent minister with the Minister of Labour. And if you read this to yourself I don't know things are crystal clear. But if you don't get real down here, what does that mean, and it's about understanding -- and I agree with that -- it's very hard to understand. But unfortunately, look at the railway, despite modern times, still requires perhaps a different technological process than we would like, but it is not the fault of the current government and the current minister who is trying to establish some order with the team in this area. That's what you had the chance to do. And you didn't touch the railroad, except when the money was missing. This is for recovery and be quiet!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u61	Mr. Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u62	Thank you, Vice President. It is hard to see, as it seems, a raised hand or a coworker who does not seem to be looking at the hall at all. Why did I take the floor? Not because I am delegating in a way that may not be the place here, but because I am surprised at the way the Minister answered the question of both SD Members. Let him try to explain why this E point or this article has such an explanation or why it would not be necessary to adopt Mr Veber's explanation or proposal. So, the explanation was because this was already justified at a meeting of the commission or at a meeting, when we accepted or when you accepted the amendments. I would like to remind you that the meeting of the Commission lasted about one and a half hours, or the committee at which we first forwarded the general position. The amendments were discussed 35 minutes at a time when this National Assembly was sowing here. Those of you who may have dealt with this Article 85 have considered this with one another. I mean, you haven't even considered this and that this is the underestimation of this body, that is, the National Assembly, which needs to be given an explanation if you want us to participate in the adoption of this act. That's what's bothering you. This way of adopting this law is symptomatic. It's not your opinion, it's the opinion of the opposition Members. We made a deal with our coalitions. This includes some former railway workers such as Mr Friend. It's a done deal. And we are puppets here who need to listen to the explanations of those who are so sure of it. However, we would like to participate in the adoption process so that we know why this is also the case in Article 85. And that seems to me to be your duty, and it is necessary to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u63	Mr. Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you. I'll be brief. Mr Marinič, there is no justification for this direct travel in this article. I'm not being populism. I'm being realistic. There were no such provisions in the current laws. I don't have an answer for why this comes into the marriage. If it is clear to you that the criteria will be laid down by the Minister without the criteria set out in this Act, we are talking about this Article being unconstitutional. It has to be the criteria. The basic criteria must be laid down in the law so that a sub-law can then be adopted. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, colleague Friday correctly took up the meeting yesterday. However, this was the continuation of the suspended meeting. And in fact, we did have about an hour of general discussion. And then we voted like you said all the amendments. But you forgot to say what I said yesterday on the board, that three days from almost morning to evening, the Ministry's professional services, our Legal and Professional Service and the Committee's professional services were also preparing these amendments and explanations for these amendments. And I wouldn't ignore that job. I think that amendments that could have been made at such a time, as you have rightly established, have also been considered or accepted. And I personally assess, as my colleague Marinič explained, that when we read an article, it must be read at all paragraphs or at all points and that the appropriateness with the amendment adopted is both to point e and to paragraph 5 is covered and defined as to what this directing journey or the duration of the change is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u67	I take it there are no more discussers. I therefore conclude the debate on the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to an amendment to the 92a Article of the SDS, NSI and SLS. Would anyone like to discuss it? I guess not. I therefore conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 107 of the SDS, NSI and SLS. Anybody want a word? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on this Article and also the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided today in accordance with the timing of the meeting in the framework of the vote after the hour following the end of the 27th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.21. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the conditions for the static transformation of a mutual health insurance company, an emergency procedure. On 26 April 2007, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted two proposals to the legislative procedure concerning this item of the agenda, namely the proposal of the Law on the Reform of the Mutual Health Insurance Company, d.v.z., to the Shareholder Society, a second hearing, EPA 1385 /IV, which was submitted on 11 April 2007 by the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to Mr. Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti and Mr. Bogdan Barovič, and a proposal on the conditions for the recast of the Mutual Health Insurance Office following the urgent procedure EPA 1417 submitted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 26 April 2007. The Health Committee decided, in its debate on the above-mentioned proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia following an emergency procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to both proposers for further explanation of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the other bill-maker, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimenite. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice hello to you all! The law we have before us is actually some kind of hybrid. A hybrid by force of a situation that doesn't save what you're supposed to save. The fact is that the law that we have tabled with Mr Barovic is much more exact, accurate, complete and follows those guidelines, which should also be followed by the law drawn up by the Ministry. However, Mr Minister has obtained his so-called independent experts, who have drawn up a law for him, but not only is he meaningless and bad, even unconstitutional. The fact is that the Ministry has drawn up a proposal for a law regulating the situation of only one insurance undertaking. This is said to be an intervention that targets only one fully defined entity. Such an aspect is subject to specific treatment in modern European law, which specifically assesses whether legislation is general or is aimed at only one particular entity. The State shall not adopt rules which unjustifiably aggravate the situation of only one of the entities. Here we now have a very strange situation in the Republic of Slovenia. This situation is such that different vats measure different insurance companies. Since time is not enough, I would explain only what is the purpose of the law prepared by the Ministry. The purpose of the law is nothing more than simply to nationalize the insurance company Mutual and then to own it. It's a recipe that's famous. However, it should not be possible in today's democratic system. But dissolving laws is actually possible here. So-called independent legal experts will be welcomed. Mr Juhart is sitting there, and he will probably get another 6,000 euros to fix and defend something. Regardless of the fact that we can be sure that the Constitutional Court will decide otherwise by the time we put the law into constitutional judgment. The fact is, there are quite a few things that this law should not allow. However, it does allow or kicks the owners out. These are the ones with whose money this institution was founded. That's what you call it, Mutual Insurance. These are all those who have paid too much into insurance funds and have actually made this money mutual. The money added by the Institute of Health Care was cancelled in the basic law establishing this insurance company. It is said that he no longer has the right to own or own shares. But the ministry does it its way and somehow brings it all back to some weird initial thing. The fact is, several members of the Slovenian Constitution have been violated. First of all, Article 2, which states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. In this case it is neither legal nor social. Article 14 speaks of equality before the law. These equalitys are also violated here. This is a specific law that favours or provides only one entity and favours other legal entities over the term. Article 33, which speaks of the right to private property and to inheritance. There's a violation of constitutional law here, too. Because if anyone owns this property, no one can take it away from him. And yet this law will rob these owners of their share in the Mutual Insurance. And 74th Article of the Constitution, which speaks of entrepreneurship as a free economic initiative. There is also no more economic initiative. It's just cruel nationalization and then privatisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I give my word to the government's representative. Mr. Dorian Marušič, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u70	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Very fast. You have before you the proposal of the Law on the Conditions for the Status Transformation of the Mutual Health Insurance. I would like to quickly outline the major changes or developments that the law brings. The law prescribes conditions, criteria and transformation procedures and allows for a transparent and controlled status change between the two. At the same time, it prevents damage to members, providing for the prior consent of the Agency for Insurance Control and the determination of the founder's share, i.e. the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the determination of that share from capital in the event of conversion. It provides for two possible forms of transformation, either distance or transformation into a share society. The basic purpose of the law is protection. So to prevent the damage to all insured, members of the Mutual. Even those who were insured on their own as of 31.8.2005. Then transformed into a share company, which means the impact of the determination determined by the premium factor. This figure is also the basis for determining the nominal share of the beneficiary in the company. For this department, either on a new establishment or on an existing insurance company. The mutual in this case does not cease. The Insurance Supervisory Agency shall verify that after the separation, the Mutual is able to carry out insurance business in a smooth manner. The insured person is in a double relationship, under the insurance contract and in a capital ratio: according to the premium ratio. For the law separates both relationships. In the event of a split, mutual inquiry as to how many insured persons would be willing to transfer their contracts to a new or acquisition company in the event of a successful separation. The insurance contracts and the shares of the insurance undertakings which consent to the transfer shall be entered into the distribution plan. Next. The division of consent shall be separate from the division vote. An individual may object to the matter of separation. However, in the event of a vote, he was prepared to postpone the contract. The composition of the separation plan is complex. First, it is necessary to determine how many of all members wish to transfer contracts. Only then will a distribution plan be drawn up, so called, how much of the entire property will be transferred. In a short time, I highlighted the main changes that the law is making. I hope that he will reach consensus and support in Parliament, and even so adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Procedural question. Mr. Victory Elinčič the Noble!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! One thing I'm curious about. Representatives or government officials or relevant ministries must sit in those benches. I wonder: Since when is Mr Juhart employed by the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia? And I don't know what he's doing there. Because next time I'm gonna bring some personal friend of mine, and I'm gonna say, "Sit down in the government premises and do whatever you want." I think it's a very strange way to play the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And I would say the strange attitude of the Ministry of Health towards this highest parliamentary body in every democratic country, not just in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why, Mr President, I would like you to ask gentlemen to leave those premises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Dorian Marusich, would you like an explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u74	Mr Vice President, honourable Member! We will take this direction or initiative into account and I will ask the advisers if they can leave the Parliamentary Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go, please! I'm sorry, I'm a little late. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I therefore ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Ivan Grill, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u76	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members. The Health Committee received in its procedure two laws dealing with the same social content: this was the proposal of the Law on the Conversion of the Mutual Health Insurance Company into a Shareholder Society - the second consideration, proposed by Mr Zmaj Jelinčič Plmenite and Bogdan Barovic. As a second proposal of the Law on the Conditions for the Status Transformation of the Mutual Health Insurance Office of the Applicant of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly may, in the event that several draft laws governing the same social relationship have been tabled, first consider a proposal for a law which has been transmitted as the first one and then, in the order of procedure, forward. In this case, the first law was transmitted by the proponent of the Helinčič Trimenite and Bogdan Barovic. As a second proposal for a law, a proposal for a law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was tabled following an urgent procedure. On the basis of Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, the home labour force may, in the event that the Government submits a law by emergency procedure, decide on its committee to consider, within the agenda, both draft laws governing the same social relationship under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly by emergency procedure. In this way, it may be possible to consider the draft law at the first next meeting of the National Assembly. On the basis of these provisions, the Health Committee has adopted a decision to consider at the same meeting, under the same item of the agenda, both draft laws governing the same social relationship under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, following an urgent procedure for the adoption of legislation. Given that the Committee has decided to deal with both laws under the same agenda item, it has then decided, in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly at this meeting, which draft law will be the basis for the preparation of the amended bill below. In accordance with the previous practice of working bodies in the simultaneous examination of the draft laws governing the same social relationship, the Committee proposed and adopted a decision that the draft law was a proposal for a government law which had been tabled under an urgent procedure. On the basis of the same provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee then decided at this meeting which content of the second bill could be included in the draft law. In view of the fact that it was found that the proposal for the law of the drafters of the Members of Mr Viktor Jelinčič Trimenite and Mr Bogdan Barovic contained completely diametric proposals for the text of the articles, we have adopted a decision on the Committee not to include any of the articles in this proposal for a law. Following the adoption of the conclusions, the Health Committee considered the so-called statutory hybrid, but the proposal of both laws was maintained and the two applicants could participate in this application. At that meeting, the Committee then considered or carried out an examination of the amended draft law in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the treatment on the home working body and the provisions of Article 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is an article on the treatment of the law by emergency procedure. Since it was possible for the Government to amend the bill by the two proposers only by amendments, the Committee decided to suspend the consideration of this point in this part and to continue it the following day. In this way, it was possible for the applicants to have sufficient time to prepare additional amendments. The following day, the proposaler, Mr Jelinčič, presented the decision that the amendments had not been drafted as co-proposals, so only the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS members were adopted on the committee. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] After the adoption of all of this, we adopted the law as suitable for further consideration and proposed that it be adopted at the June session. [[...]] Finally, the Committee decided on the appropriateness of further consideration of the law of the drafters of Victory Jelinčič and Bogdan Barovic, and voted that this law was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill, on behalf of the SDS Group, again has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u78	Again, thank you for your word. Slovenia has a voluntary health insurance system in place in a unique way, which cannot be compared in any European country. Based on reciprocity and therefore a mutual health insurance company with reciprocity status was also established. The basic objective of the establishment of the Mutual in 1999 was to enable insurance undertakings in the field of supplementary health insurance to finance the necessary health services in a sustainable and sustainable manner, thus providing quality insurance without including the sum of the dividend. Such a service is offered only by an insurance company in the form of a mutual insurance company. For this reason, the Mutual was not established under the provisions of the Insurance Act, nor under the provisions of the Company Act, but under a very specific law. However, since these provisions of the law do not sufficiently protect the public interest and, in particular, the interests of the insured, this is also stated by the Constitutional Court in its decision, the law imposed in March 2006 on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a special law. In particular, a specific provision for the protection of the rights of insured persons, who were members of the Mutual on the last day prior to the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, was laid down, i.e. on 31.8.2005. We now have such a law in this regard. The proposal for a law follows primarily three objectives. In order to ensure the protection of the rights of the insured to the maximum protection of the public interest and to protect the rights of the founder. The law allows for transparent regulation of the possibility of a statusal legal transformation Mutual as a mutual insurance company established by a specific law in order to determine the criteria, conditions and procedure for the transformation of the status and the rights of the founder and beneficiaries in the event of such transformation. The law provides only for the transformation into a share company and for the second option to allocate individual parts of the property to another insurance undertaking, so that the remainder of the Reciprocal must still maintain the business capacity. In view of the specificity of the transformation in which the insurance company is involved, the law provides for the consent of the supervisory committee or body, i.e. the Insurance Supervisory Agency. As long as the Mutual Business is a mutual insurance company, the law provides that the interest of the Founder shall not be refunded. However, as long as the conversion of the Mutual into a Shareholder takes place, it is necessary for the Founder to pay his share by depositing such amount in the Register of Justice with the Court of Justice and paying only after the registration of the conversion into the Register of Court. Taking into account the public interest in the establishment and maintenance of voluntary health insurance in accordance with the principle of reciprocity, it is not possible to allow the demutation of the company without the consent of the vast majority of beneficiaries in the conversion or separation, so the law provides for a 75% quorum in the presence of beneficiaries and 90% support for the adoption of the decision on conversion. In doing so, in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we consider this to be a good solution for all those beneficiaries who do not agree with the transformation and do not want to remain insured, since in this case the law obliges each other to offer such beneficiaries the acquisition of their shares for the appropriate monetary compensation approved by the auditor. The law explicitly requires that the Insurance Supervisory Agency, prior to issuing an agreement on the separation of assets, be explicitly required by the law. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] verify that the Mutual, as a transmission company, will also be able, after separation, to fulfil the obligations under insurance contracts and to ensure risk management, without prejudice to the public interest of supplementary insurance. [[...]] In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we estimate that the proposed law is good to protect the interests of insurers and that it has sufficient safeguards to protect insured persons in its provisions [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] before the possibility of non-transparent transformation or any other abuse. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Mark Pavlich has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Mr State Secretary Marusič, with co-worker and co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law, but we are obliged to point out some weaknesses and dangers. Firstly, this law is intervention and intervention laws are only adopted in exceptional cases and this is an exceptional case, since it is the protection of almost one million insurers and insurers. On the other hand, we must say that in addition to the public interest that the Government must take care of, the protection of insured persons is taken care of by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. And the Agency has so far not used all the funds it has available under the Insurance Act and has finally woke up from winter sleep and is doing something and let us hope that it will continue to play this role. Secondly, it should be noted that, in this mandate, we too often see the unbearable ease of the emergency procedure. On the one hand, of course, the Government should adopt such a regulation within one year, then this deadline is delayed and is now in a hurry to adopt this regulation. This is about as if we applied late for a public invitation to tender, and then would require our role to be given priority or if I could paraphrase the American proverb - a lack of functioning, for example, by one of the administrative authorities does not justify the necessity in Parliament. Thirdly, what we would like to point out is that the law provides for a rather harsh and rather strict conditions for the so-called demutation, but still this demutation can be converted into a mutation. Why? In fact, if the Mutual had transformed into a Shareholder Society, it would have lost its essential mission to be a non-profit organisation providing a lower premium and better conditions for its insurers. There is also a risk of hostile takeover, there is a possibility that agency costs will be higher, and some of these shortcomings could be mentioned. So let us hope that this law will at least undermine this possibility of transformation once and for all, if it has not already prevented it. Well, the next weakness, which we will also point out with our amendment, is the institute of so-called divisions of individual property. If we're gonna let that happen. [[I'll tell you more about this in the amendments.]] then we must certainly provide for the protection of the founder and allow such a department only if the founder receives his or her respective share. Finally: is there any other option if the Mutual wishes to appear on the insurance services market as well as other competing insurance undertakings? Yes! The profession states that it would be entirely acceptable if a mutual insurance company with a majority share had established a subsidiary which, for example, would be engaged in property insurance, or another one dealing with life insurance, it would have acted on the principle of profit, i.e. as a shareholder company, and profit would have gone back to the Mutual, i.e. to the mutual insurers, who could thus receive a lower premium and better conditions. As we say, we support the law with these reservations. However, I would ask you to consider, at this time, supporting our amendment, which is intended only to ensure the protection of the founder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u82	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished presidents, representatives of the Ministry! With amateur performances, it's usually made on the same text, but it's always done a little differently, because people don't know. And so it is with this intention of savage privatisation of the Mutual, which takes place before our eyes and leaves citizens in uncertainty for some time. In fact, in this mandate, the Government has always transferred responsibility to the Constitutional Court and to the National Assembly and, in fact, everyone else is dealing with the question of the Mutual. We have already discussed the amendment of the law and the authentic explanation, the complications of the referendum initiatives, had to be resolved by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, it was clear, of course, what the Ministry and other competent institutions should do to prevent the so-called attempt to privatise the Mutual. At that time, when we intertwined Minister Bručan, we drew attention to the Minister's announced policy of accelerated privatisation in the field of insurance as well. But his inactiveness, his longing and staring at this fire, showed that he was apparently abandoning Mutual Wild Privatization. With this, he got some more interpretation points or just the right points to call off. But there's no reaction there either. In the light of the adoption of this law, we must put the public interest in supplementary insurance at the forefront. The issue of the threat of reciprocity when the insurance company is redesigned, as well as at these latest events, namely the cancellation of the merger of two insurance undertakings, to ask itself and others how to defend the interests of the insurers. Actually, there's something else going on in this country. At all of these events, they suddenly get words of new importance: relaxation is unreleased, reciprocity is mutual. That's what's going on. This insurance offered by the Mutual, unlike other private health insurance, must not be profitable or at least not predominant, if we say so, as this would mean that some individuals make a profit out of already guaranteed health rights. We also know that the leadership of the Mutual in the last five years has often upset insurance companies, competitions, supervisory institutions with an attempt at different selective insurance premiums, more expensive for older insurers than the introduction of compensatory schemes, then we have experienced controversial changes in status, introduction, closure of personal accounts, different transformations, mergers, disengagements - largely a great deal of momentum that would confuse the real goal. Problems in this area are not from today. They had already indicated themselves in the previous mandate and a proposal for a health reform was put in place to strengthen solidarity by introducing premiums. However, Minister Bručan did not follow this direction, but he started implementing a policy of relatively accelerated privatisation in the field of insurance as well. The current events, when, in fact, the Board of Directors of the Mutual Owners wishes to take away their insurance undertaking, are the result of either ignorance or duplicity, or the passiveness of the authorities or Minister Bručan, who would deal with anything other than what would be most important. According to the Slovenian Constitution, as well as under European and international law, all human beings have the right to health care under the conditions laid down by law, not the financial elite, which is primarily interested in the wealth and the multiplication of this wealth. When considering today's law, we are aware that the proposal for a law must be adopted under the conditions for the status of the Mutual Health Insurance Office, in particular in order to protect the basic interests of the insured and the Health Insurance Office. This, I believe, is the last attempt by the government and the ministry to mitigate the damage that has occurred so far. However, despite this law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not welcome it, but we will not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u84	Nice greetings, presidents, representatives of the Ministry and colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly! In Novi Slovenija we support the proposalr's intention that the necessary conditions for the status transformation of mutual health insurance companies should be regulated by a specific law which also comprehensively regulates possible status transformation, including pre-known conditions, procedures and certain criteria. Given the number of insured persons involved in the mutual health insurance system today, about 900,000 of them are at the forefront of public interest protection and the preservation of supplementary health insurance in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. Insurers should be protected against narrow stakeholders whose objective would be to create profit at the expense of the insurers. In Novi Slovenija, we believe that self-voluntary conversion into a share society could reduce the confidence of insurers in the principle of solidarity and in the system of reciprocity, and thus possibly even endanger health insurance, so we support and support, by law, the conditions and the protection of the property rights of both the insured and the rights of the founder of the Mutual Health Insurance Institute. Since the institution, in addition to the capital established by the Mutual, has also transferred other funds from voluntary insurance to the company, it is certainly entitled to this share of the establishment, which has to be taken into account in the law governing the legal transformation. Prior to the initiation of a possible transformation procedure, the Mutual to a Shareholder Society, provided that the criteria set out in the law are established and met for this purpose, of course also with the important role of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, after the resolution of the draft law on the basis of the valuation of the value of capital, the Mutual shall determine the share of the value of the capital belonging to the Founder. It should be pointed out that this non-refundable establishment capital was exclusively intended for the Mutual with a view to lowering the premium in the organisation of health insurance, including the Constitutional Court's finding and affirming that the key principle of safeguarding the interests of the Founder is the Mutual principle of reciprocity. For companies dealing with mutual insurance, quality and concern must be of primary concern to the general public, their highest level of social security and, by no means, their interest in profit. Even the opposite. In the public interest, a premium should be provided as low as possible in order to achieve the highest possible level of social security to which insured persons are entitled. When we talk about guaranteeing insurance rights, we also have in mind the rights of those insurers who were members of the Mutual on the last day before the entry into force of the Health and Health Insurance Act, as well as other insured persons who did not have membership rights on the same day. In Novi Slovenija we believe that all possible shareholders of the Mutual in the process of transformation of the company should be treated equally, without any discrimination, and given the content and assurances provided by the proposer, we will support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State and co-workers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on the Status Transformation of the Mutual Health Insurance Company following an emergency procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and reception, for a simple reason, to prevent the possible wild privatisation of such an important mutual insurance company. We are convinced that this law follows the basic objective, namely that transparent regulation of the possibility of a statusal legal transformation is mutual as a mutual insurance company established by a specific law in order to determine the criteria, conditions and procedure for the legal transformation and the rights of the founder and beneficiaries in the event of such a transformation. The mutual health insurance company, which is the largest supplier of supplementary health insurance on the portfolio scale, is a specialised insurance company established by the Health and Health Insurance Act 1998 as a mutual insurance company and should, in our opinion, continue to do so in the future. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that reciprocity and intergenerational solidarity in the field of health care, as well as pension protection, necessity and future fate in Slovenia are based on alarming demographic data. It is therefore necessary to lay down certain conditions and principles for the continuation of the operation of this mutual health insurance company in a timely manner. We are confident that the law that is before us at this time brings this, so, as has already been said, we will also support it in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Health, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members of the Association, we are truly concerned, and in some ways we are also outraged by the fact that the matter of reshaping the Mutual has become a constant in the work of the National Assembly, in a way of repeated treatment, which is constantly under time constraints, with incredible procedural and business exercises and with the constant threat of damage to nearly a million insured involved. This was the case last year when we adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Care Act after the great tribulations in March, which only in some way extended the time to regulate the transformation of the Mutual. Article 3 of this Act refers to the conditions for the transformation of the Mutual and provides that any transformation must be regulated by a specific law. The second paragraph, however, sets out how to regulate this, with what criteria, conditions and procedures, and how the rights of insured persons who were members of the company are defined and ensure equal rights for insured persons, and lays down the rights of the founder of the mutual insurance company. It is clear from this provision that this law required the existence of a special law to regulate the transformation of the Mutual. Such a law should be submitted and prepared by the Ministry of Health or the Government within one year. Mr Bručan, unfortunately, failed to prepare these changes in one year, so a group of Members rushed him and introduced him before the government into a law procedure that should regulate things in a completely different way. With this delay, the government has again caused many problems and procedural complications. In doing so, the Government has made a serious mistake in terms of default and delaying the deadlines it has set itself. And of course, it is not surprising and it is not surprising that the demands for the resignation of Minister Bručan appear daily, as this error is also only one in many that are happening, and it is not surprising that this is actually repeated as the yoke of the serpent. And the government then introduced the law into the procedure only at the end of April - following an emergency procedure. The colleague, who represented the Committee's position, spoke only of "procedural exercise", if I say so, but not of the content, because the committee was in a rather difficult situation. Although the government submitted its law following an emergency procedure, there was another law, and we were inevitably witnessing again to incredible legal manoeuvres, yet we came to the point that we would be able to protect almost a million insurers. The Government's proposal for a law thus regulates the possibility of a status reshape of the Mutual. The criteria, conditions, procedures and rights of the founder and beneficiaries in the event of a transformation are defined. The Act should also take into account the provisions of other laws such as the Insurance Act, the Company Act, the Health and Insurance Act. The mutual, established under a specific law as a mutual company, currently offers cheap insurance and does not seek profitability, capital and profit, but, above all, what reciprocity is intended for: a low price of service. In foreign countries, the mutual form is a completely normal legal form, which also takes place in market mechanisms. The data of the International Mutual Insurance Association show that out of 1,847 life insurance companies in Europe, 68% are organised as mutuals. And of course, the percentage is particularly high in Scandinavia, France and Germany. Slovenia, however, is on the European average with 19% of the premiums collected from mutual insurance companies. Therefore, I would like to point out that the possible transformation of the Mutual after the adoption of this law, which would eliminate its reciprocity, would be contrary to the public interest. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will indeed support this law in the context of the situation. However, we will observe what will happen next, and, of course, we hope that the Government will adequately protect the interests of the insured in terms of reciprocity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I've got a ball that says, "Relax!"this week, this is the right thing to do. I'm not going to repeat everything, I'm not going to be wise. This week we have three content that speak in favour of or in favour of the Minister or the Ministry of Health: we are talking about the smoking law, we are talking about cells, cell tissues and we are talking, last but not least, about the Proposal for a Law on the Conditions for the Status Transformation of the Mutual. And we'll have another one right after, but they're all going one way. And no one believes us because you are quite convinced that it is going in the direction of will, desire for individuals and privatisation. You know, this duplicity this week, and I said it yesterday, and I'm gonna tell it today, and I told it to the day before yesterday, but I've got enough. I've had enough! So much duality as we hear this week, but it's too much. I just want to know why one insurance company has completely different rights than the other. I'm just curious! We've been talking about this for six months. No one's told us. One is a holy cow, the other must be abolished. I mean, we're not with my fellow nobleman and Barovich, a signatory, the smartest woman in the world, but sometimes we're right, we're probably right most of the time. I guess so! And it's no different than this: those who are members of the Mutual are members of each other and have the right to own and can be - I don't know if it's a million or it's a million 200 people - owners. Why shouldn't we be? Some other insurance companies, which is the world, probably with some kind of interest, but there they can, and there they can do whatever they want. Except one can't. That's duality. Admit it or not, because you'll never admit it, it's a duplicity! And not last but without a connection! I'm going to translate the expression hybrid, alien, some sort of crippling thing that happened again, just like it did yesterday and the day before, and not least, because it's no wonder, because it's no wonder that we're going to trigger all the laws proposed by the Ministry of Health this week, constitutional judgment! And it's no wonder, no wonder we're going to propose an interpolation, of course. Because, last of all, you know, if he's driving 2,000 vehicles down the highway to Portorož, and one of them's opposite, he can't say that those 2,000 guys who drive the opposite are idiots. No, that one's a little weird.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u91	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the amendment tabled by you on 19.6.2007. I am putting to the debate the amendment of Article 10 of the Social Democrats' Group. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Mark Pavlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, again for your word. When we examined the law in the parliamentary group and, of course, considered how it could be improved, we originally intended to remove the possibility provided for in the second paragraph of Article 3, specifically in the second indent - namely, the separation of individual parts of the property. But this would be technically difficult for us, because we should also cut down in paragraphs 10 to 12, Article 13 and, in fact, in the whole law, so we have proposed a compromise solution - so after a quick discussion with some other colleagues, I find that it is not bad. In fact, in Article 10, paragraph 13, we would add the following fuse, additional protection of the founder. In the separation procedure, the founder shall be reimbursed a proportional share of the assets. What's this all about? Voluntary health insurance is undoubtedly a public interest. This is also stated in the Health Insurance and Health Act, and the public interest must be taken care of by the State or Government and both competent ministries. However, insurance protection should be taken care of by the Insurance Agency in one way or another under the Insurance Act. Public interest means ensuring maximum social and health security without any discrimination. And what danger exists when a particular part of the property is separated? Since this part would have been divided into a fast-paced shareholding society, the Mutual is only one so far, of course, it is logical to have a profitable direct shareholding company in order to separate the Mutual only a better part of the portfolio. Simply put, the smaller part of the protected population and the healthier part. However, it would remain a more difficult or more burdensome part, which would be necessary in a short period of time to raise premiums. Of course, as a result of the increase in premiums, even greater refugees who would have been transferred in the form of separate assets, if I may say, to any other insurance company, and in the end, they could have received, in their own words, an empty mutual or a variety of unprotected older insurers. The problem is also that compensatory schemes do not allow discrimination in relation to the disease structure, while a single premium is foreseen. Therefore, I would suggest to my colleagues that you think about this, of course also to the proposaler, that this is a good deliberate improvement that would further protect the rights of the founder, and then, of course, we can only hope that this demutation will not occur - as I said in the introductory presentations - it is a great danger that the demutation, as used by a foreigner, can be turned into a mutation. In this part, I think that the proposaler has set up a large enough number of security guards to prevent this from happening and that the Mutual will continue to carry out its basic mission - in an unprofitable way to the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes or residents, to provide the best possible and at the same time the cheapest health care for the people of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we also assess that the amendment proposed by the Social Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors is appropriate to support it. Because it is in this part that the practical matter is even more clearly complemented, so we will also support it in our parliamentary group and even in the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am closing the debate on this amendment and we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, the proposal for a bill supplementing the Health Security and Health Insurance Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members, with Mr Saš Pečet, first-signed. With regard to this bill, the Health Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration. Since the Government is not a bill-maker, there is no word on this point, nor does it have a word on the mother's working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Grill, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u96	Mr President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decision voted on by the Health Committee, as we follow the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, as well as the Ministry of Health, which states in their explanation that the content of this Act is practically identical to the law already in force - that is, the matter, and this is the law that we adopted in 2006 and was also published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 38. Thus, we ourselves will support this decision, because we do not need to have this law in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Root in the name of NSI. He's not here. Mr. Miha Prevc, on behalf of the SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u98	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also not be supported by the bill for a simple reason because the proposal overlaps with the material that has already been adopted and also the published Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. And last but not least, which was also pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service in its opinion. However, the lack of sense of considering the proposed law was also pointed out by the representative of the Ministry of Health, so that we will not support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party, as has already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF THE LAW ON PREVIOUS COMPOSITIONS FOR PROHIBITIONAL DRUGS, REDUCED PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Here you go, Minister Bručan.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u100	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! I would just like to read the explanation of this proposal for the law on the termination and validity of the law on precursors for illicit drugs. At national level, the law followed the provisions of the EU Directives and Regulations of 1990 and 1992 and Council Directive 1992 and Commission Regulation No. 36769/92. In 2004-2005, a new European legislation was adopted on the basis of the experience gained by the Member States, requiring national legislation on precursors to illicit drugs and a regulation on forms of application for the implementation of the regulations on precursors to illicit drugs established by the competent authority in the Republic of Slovenia, criminal sanctions and laying down the necessary forms. By implementing this new legislation in the field of precursors to illicit drugs, the existing law on precursors to illicit drugs has become unnecessary in certain parts and is contrary to the new European legislation, which is why it has to be repealed. And I'm asking for your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I ask the Vice-President of this Committee, Mr Grill, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u102	Once again, a nice hello to you all. We have also considered this bill on the Home Working Committee. And given that the legal order in Slovenia practically sums up this area according to EU regulations or regulations, we have also assessed on the Committee that it makes sense that the current law is also repealed. We have therefore adopted a decision on the Committee on Health and we propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the proposal for a law on the termination of the law on precursors for illicit drugs be considered in the text tabled and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello again! In Novi Slovenija we support the law on the termination of the Act on Pre-lawed Drugs, as there has been a thorough overhaul of the system of internal traffic control in the EU and transport with third countries at EU level. The new legislation fully replaces the rules from 1990 to 2004, which are newly regulated in the three Regulations of the European Community and specifically lay down rules for the control of trade in precursors to illicit drugs between the Community and third countries. The changes have taken place on the basis of the experience developed and the exchange of views within the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union in the exercise of control over these components. The new legislative package thus fully applies directly to all Member States of the European Union, as well as to the national legal system, and there is no longer a need for such an extensive regulation of such an area, so we support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We also support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party, because the new European Union legislative package for the control of traffic in illicit drugs is directly applicable in all Member States of the European Union, which makes it logical that transposition into the national legal system is no longer necessary, of course, except for the establishment of criminal sanctions and competent authorities. With the proposed repeal of the law of the Republic of Slovenia implementing the last necessary measure to abolish the dual regime of this area, and thus to ensure the smooth implementation of the common legal order of the European Union, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the law and the reduced treatment process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill is also on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u108	Once again, a nice hello to you all. We also support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, because, as I have already mentioned in the presentation of the position of the home labour body, this area is now governed by new legislation and it is absolutely unnecessary that the existing law is still in force in Slovenia. That is why we will also support this proposal of the law on its termination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, it is not possible for amendments to be tabled in the second reading of the amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. Third reading, this is a decision on the proposal for a law, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, we will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Determination of the Principle of Equal Treatment, Shortening Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to complete the explanation of the bill. Ma'am mag. Tanja Salecl, Director of Equal Opportunities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment, which aligns Slovenian legal order with the legal order of the European Union in the field of non-discrimination. In such a way that legislation in Slovenia is even clearer and more precise and individuals and individuals will undoubtedly understand what rights belong to them. The proposal for a law is more precise as to the definition of personal circumstances and areas in which European Union law ensures the principle of equal treatment, extends protection against retaliation and identifies indirect discrimination and more appropriately defines temporary measures. We also propose amendments to the Advocate or Advocate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u112	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law, together with the amendments of the four parliamentary groups and the Home Committee. In the Slovenian People's Party, we always follow our principled commitment to equal opportunities in democratic society. However, the social state, as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, must assist and provide them with conditions for equal opportunities. We also always stress that the basis for achieving the social state is a solid economy and sustainable development. The country must create conditions for the competitiveness of the economy through legislation. We also stand firm in the view that, in human and democratic society, state legislation must be directed so as not to leave the weak behind or even leave them to their fate. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are of the opinion that by amending and supplementing the law, we follow the objectives and principles defined, not least in Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of equality before the law, and in many directives of the European Union. However, it is also necessary to define clearly and precisely the areas and exceptions derogating from the principle of equal treatment when there is no violation of the principle of equal treatment in accordance with the European Union acquis. However, it is particularly important for us in the Slovenian People's Party to respond to some of the comments from the European Commission's reasoned opinion, which Slovenia received in July 2006, for example, it is necessary to define not only the actual disadvantage but also the possible disadvantage. The prohibition of discrimination should also apply to access to self-employment and vocational training. Protection against retaliatory measures should be provided not only to persons who are discriminated against but also to witnesses or other persons who assist the victim of discrimination. It is right that discrimination can also be tackled on an anonymous initiative. We would also point out that there is a need in the law to extend the possibility and complement it with provisions so that others can take positive measures to prevent a less favourable situation for persons with a particular personal situation, as provided for in the European Union's acquis. Finally, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also support the solutions that follow the European Union's demand that a specific body providing independent assistance to victims of discrimination operate in each Member State. Such an authority must be independent and independent in its work and separate from the policy-making bodies. The provision of equal opportunities and the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is a valid reason for the Slovenian People's Party's Group's reduced treatment of the law. We believe that everyone in Slovenia is protected from discrimination, at least in relation to the declaration provisions in the Constitution and laws, we have the Ombudsman, a number of civil organisations, the Office for Equal Opportunities, in all areas of social life, including those mentioned in the Commission report, because of the clarity and accuracy of the legislation. However, it is right for each individual to understand clearly what rights belong to him under the European Union directives, to take into account the Commission's statements and the National Assembly to adopt amendments and additions to the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment, even after a reduced procedure, as promised by the Government in its reply. As has already been said, we will support the proposal in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u114	Good-bye. Of course, there is no doubt that we will support the adoption of these supplements, but we must not overlook some very important things that have unfortunately not happened in these changes and that will need to be addressed. I don't think it happened because the government would be so careful and I'd say it's because of the money that he does what he does. But I am afraid that there were other reasons, reasons why the question of the institution of the advocate or advocate of the same options had not been resolved differently than it was. And here we have a key comment, a thought that we have finally said several times. In short, it remained open - and we believe that it could be better regulated if there was more will - the issue of the status of the advocate or actually it would have had sufficient autonomy and independence to remain in this organisation as it is; in short, if there is an advocate, an advocate of a government service or a public servant, a public servant. Perhaps there can be legitimate doubts here, particularly in the context of understanding the loyalty of government officials, as this government perceives. Recently, or this week’s event in the discharge of a financial ministry official who has not shown such loyalty confirms these doubts. In short, whether it is appropriate to institute advocacy within government services - yes or no. I stress that the work of the advocate so far, as we accompany her in the National Assembly within the reports, has been exemplary. However, there is no need for more obstacles to be encountered once in the future. But there will be more obstacles when this job has more tasks. And since she will have more tasks, especially when she offers legal aid and advice, she will also have more work to do, she will probably have more responsibility and it is up to the Government to decide whether she will be able to grow up to be a part of, say, these problems. But it's not just that. It is also a possibility of disability that can happen - and one example in the past is very typical. Remember that in the case of harassment issues in the Slovenian Armed Forces, in fact, she is only an advocate within the Office of the same opportunities to hope or to express different positions as expressed by the Minister, as expressed by the General Staff and as expressed by the Commission of Inquiry set up by the Minister. Within her research, she found and also reported to us that inappropriate behaviour, harassment and unfair interference with the integrity of individuals, members of the Slovenian Army, had occurred. But I wondered why there were no members within the committee that dealt with this, why, I will say, did not apply its written positions and why these views did not experience further evaluations and thoughts within Parliament. Here I can conclude, but it is not necessarily the same, but I think that perhaps this advocate was in that position of disability, when because she was not pleased with the findings that took place within the General Staff of Minister Erjavac or the Commission of Inquiry - they were not interested, in short, in these findings. So this is a typical example of, say, a different investigation of a case with a different seizure. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But with the disability of further decisions and consequences. [[...]] And if this happens within, say, an incoming institution or an institution that has not changed its status and remains a government service, not, for example, an independent body, even though it decides on its own - it is written to decide on its own - it may lead to a failure to perform these functions, which could, for example, be in a fully independent service, such as a public information officer with a greater power. We will have to think about this, and surely we will all have to think about it if we are to continue in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u115	Thank you. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. It will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will, of course, support all these proposed changes, because we believe that it is essential to ensure as soon as possible in this area within the framework of the legal basis, a situation which will be in line with the EU acquis. This is what we must do or ensure and also coordinate. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are clearly aware of the importance of being consistent in the implementation of the principle of equal treatment, not only on paper, but mainly in everyday life, in practice. Slovenia, like other EU members, has the possibility that in some segments, such as defining areas of protection against discrimination against personal circumstances, it will be possible to define its own approach, how it will respond and how it will address the problem. And today, the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is implementing the principle of equal treatment in a way to monitor, identify and assess the situation of individual social groups in terms of achieving equal treatment, gives proposals, initiatives and recommendations to the Government, giving what appears to be particularly important, proposals to promote education and, above all, awareness in this area. In addition to the already mentioned harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the EU or the European acquis, the Act on the Principles of Equal Treatment primarily extends protection against retaliation by persons who have been discriminated against, also to witnesses or other persons who help the victim of dirximination, which is certainly a welcome change. The one that led to the most debate within the two working bodies, both the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and equal opportunities, as well as the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, was in particular the issue raised by the pre-president, the question, the status of the advocate or advocate, who deals with cases of discriminatory behaviour. What we believe is a positive shift in this area is certainly an increase in the independence and independence of the advocate or advocate. Those who are struggling to turn their problems into a spokesman must be convinced that the opinion that the advocate will give on the basis of certain cases will, of course, be given independently and independently. However, the question that I myself raised with the Ombudsman Zdenka Cebašek Travnik in the parliamentary group is how much she is in fact inclined to the idea that the Ombudsman might go under the auspices of the Office of the Ombudsman. By the time Matjaž Hanžek was head of this office, the Ombudsman had already discussed this with the Office for Equal Opportunities. The current guardian has not yet been identified until such a proposal. However, it would certainly be very good to discuss this issue in the future and, above all, to consider all options and to find the best solutions regarding the status of advocates, of course in the interests of citizens and citizens. We must not forget that the Institute of Advocates is both equal opportunities for women and men and the principle of equality, an important acquisition of democratic social space, with both institutions set up for the purpose of knowledge and awareness of rights in this area and with a view to detecting discrimination in the light of the circumstances. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Law on the principle of equal treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Director with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! For the Social Democrats, the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of the foundations of civilisation standards, which was also achieved by the adoption of relevant legislation prior to Slovenia's entry into the European Union under two legal acts, the Act on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment and the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. A good part of the debate was also under way in the previous term on how the Office for Equal Opportunities should be organisationally set up, which should be a fully independent institution according to European performances and standards. In Slovenia we have decided for a government office for equal opportunities, which is located in the context of government authorities. This is not fully realized and this is also the basis for the position of the Social Democrats towards the proposed amendment to the law. It has already been said that the current novelty is actually a reaction to the European Commission's reminder of how individual directives have been transposed into existing Slovenian legislation. Because in the National Assembly we often face reasons for adopting or adopting a law very quickly in order to meet a demand, this is also the case with this law. As a result of the reminder, we are time bound to accept the novel, and we believe that more time should be taken, and if we have already opened the law, it should be opened in a way that would also have greater effects. This is because the law in two fundamental things, in two fundamental requirements, to which the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed, has not provided the right solutions. Indeed, we have adopted some amendments at the home work body, following the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, but these were more or less editorial in nature. But those who really should bring about substantive changes, and we have not seen such amendments. Indeed, the amendment of the Social Democrats, which followed the recommendations of the NGO, Pica, was also adopted on the working body and defined more precisely, given the competences, what the advocate of the principle of equal treatment can actually do when offering legal aid, was indeed accepted, and it was good that it was accepted, but it does not remove two essential things - not yet. This was also highlighted by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the working body. These are comments relating to paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the novel, which discusses specific measures that employers can also take, and it is a reference or arrangement to who is the body that would find that there would not be a violation of the principle of equal treatment in some environment. However, the Authority should be defined. However, a particular problem is Article 11 which the Social Democrats have not decided to propose in the amendment form or to try to amend it in the amendment form because we have already been informed in the talks that the proposal will not agree to our proposals. It is a problem to regulate the position of the advocate of the principle of equal treatment in a manner such as that of the Ombudsman for access to information of a public nature. We believe that institutional independence must also be ensured, but of course we do not agree on the possibility of regulating an advocate of the principle of equal treatment within the Office of the Ombudsman because the Ombudsman does not have jurisdiction in relation to the legal persons of the private sector, and this is a problem which we believe is why we do not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u119	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello, all of you! We are in New Slovenia and will stand for equal opportunities for all people and in all areas. We see political culture as a recognition of the right of each individual to equal opportunities of life. The Act amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities brings, in addition to the consistent introduction into the law of the European Union directives, more autonomy and independence of the advocate. Despite the fact that the advocate operates under the auspices of the Government's Office for Equal Opportunities, she is independent and independent within it. We have repeatedly stopped in discussions both on the home working body and on the Petitions Commission when it comes to the fact that it is necessary to consider that the advocate or advocate should be a fully independent body, but that there is a problem of the whole institution and additional bureaucracy, which is contrary to the government's objectives, which lead to rationalisation and reduction of bureaucracy. In New Slovenia, we believe that the solutions provided for in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment are good and lead along the way which gives the advocate or advocate greater freedom and autonomy in decision-making, and binds him to a five-year term while not increasing the number of employees. The law is also being amended in this direction to allow individuals and individuals to clearly understand what rights they are entitled to, to be more clearly defined in the law, when discrimination is involved and when not, and to protect both victims of discrimination and those who help victims. In Novi Slovenija we advocate justice and as such we understand an arrangement that offers equal opportunities and equal rights for all, without privileges, bribery, clienteleism. Only in such a system can there be more prosperity and security for all. The new law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment goes towards greater clarity, clarity of the law, greater independence and independence of the advocate and consistent transposition of the Directive of the European Union. We are aware that more should be done in the area of discrimination - particularly in the area of prevention of discrimination. In the framework we have, however, the proposed solution is good and we will support it in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. Third reading, this is the decision on the bill, we will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is for the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Security Schemes and Subsidies to young companies for the first settlement of the housing question. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. A razor, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! Allow me to introduce the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to Young Families for the First Resolution of the Housing Question, which we consider to be important. The Act on National Housing Savings Schemes and Grants for Young Families, which you are deciding today, would be completed for the first time in 2004, when a specific chapter was introduced in the law, which regulates the subsidisation of the first legal settlement of the housing issue to young families. Last year, for the first time, a public invitation was made to grant these subsidies. The experience of this call called for immediate intervention in the law, as the income threshold for obtaining the subsidy has proved to be too strict. This is 50% of the average wage, so only families with very low incomes came into the beneficiary circle. Of these families, only few were able to buy or build an apartment, so that only 176 families met all the conditions required to obtain a subsidy. The main objective of the proposed amendments and amendments to the law is to extend the range of young families eligible for the subsidy. The proposal defines the young family more broadly, since single - parent families are also included in the definition, and a family with at least one preschool child is considered a young family and the age of parents is not limited at the time of the invitation. The income threshold for obtaining the subsidy is significantly higher than in the applicable law and the limit for obtaining the subsidy is progressively linked to the number of children. The income threshold is limited to the amount applicable to the acquisition of a non-profit rental apartment. Under the current law, the three-member family could receive a subsidy if its income did not exceed the EUR 1104 net monthly income limit and the proposed amendment puts the limit at EUR 2318 net monthly. It also extends the purpose for which families are entitled to a subsidy, namely to solve their first housing issue both by buying or building and by reconstructing or modifying their destination, which has not been subsidised so far. This will also indirectly encourage a more rational use of existing capacities and space. The amount of the subsidy belonging to the young family member will no longer be fixed by law, as proposed, but will be determined by the Government by a decision. This will enable the government to respond more fully to this problem. The novelty is a new sub-section on subsidisation of rent intended to subsidise commercial rents for young families, where at least one parent has successfully completed schooling at a higher or higher school, university, or reached the name of a doctor of science. In this way, the EE also pursues the objectives of the country's demographic policy, which promotes early generation of new families and an increase in birthrates. These solutions are designed for young people who, at the time of their studies or immediately after their studies, form a family. The subsidy would thus belong to a young family in which at least one parent successfully completed the study, namely, the difference between the recognised market rent and the non-profit rent for an equivalent dwelling. In this way, young students who do not have jobs and savings and this possibility of buying or building an apartment would be able to make it easier to pay market rents. Kadri-- [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - if, with higher education, higher education and university education, it may be of great importance to the development of society, and it is therefore particularly important to provide them with assistance in the first resolution of the housing issue. [[..]] The rental subsidies could thus be of assistance to the family at the beginning of their professional careers to parents on the one hand when it comes to the first housing solution, [[...]] [[Sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Environment and Space as a working body and submitted a written report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the views of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The proposed amendments and additions to the National Housing and Safety Scheme Act and subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue should facilitate the first resolution of the housing problem for young families. The range of young families eligible for subsidies, including single-parent families, increases the income threshold for the acquisition of the subsidy and also expands the purposes for which the subsidy can be obtained. It is also subsidised to rent apartments to young students who, at the end of the study, temporarily resolve the housing issue by renting apartments on the market. Colleagues and colleagues who have been present in previous additions to this law will recall that, above all, the opposition Members and Members of the opposition have pointed out that today's new agenda is too high to extend parenthood, that particular attention should be paid to the first resolution and, above all, to the student families. We are pleased, then most of these matters would have been somehow over-examined, not exactly rejected, but over-examined, and in this respect we are clearly pleased to have the Government's proposals in this direction to find out this and that they have also responded appropriately quickly. From this point of view, we welcome these changes and support them, and we believe that some benefit will certainly be, but probably less than expected. Above all, the problem is that the Government has done something on the housing market’s demand side and very little on the offer side until now, as well as the previous governments. This is precisely because the offer is not developed because there are no appropriate mechanisms to increase the number of dwellings, to build new housing or to stimulate the housing market, to allow for more sales, to replace housing and so on, that the subsidy may in some way be deliberately or reluctantly passed on to the ever-increasing price of dwellings. We have an increasing number of people who, with all their suffering and denial, are able to enter the housing market because there are more and the apartments are not being built, prices are rising, even for some other reason, and these good purposes of the Government are, of course, devalued. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that housing policy, in particular the offer side, must be an integral part of a broader spatial policy; that in some parts of Slovenia or cities housing will never be cheap, that it will always be expensive and that we must count and develop some areas where we can provide more housing, and in particular ensure a transition from the first apartment to the larger apartment and can be stopped again in smaller, housing or facilities. This is a small step perhaps for some beneficiaries large - I must say this - but to solve housing policy because it is not regulated because it does not interfere with the supply side, of course, too small. The housing fund is obviously not going to fulfill its commitments here either. I would have said this myself under the National Housing Savings Scheme that I would have been allowed these comments because I myself proposed it to the Government almost 10 years ago, that the housing loan market ratio was then in place, that it was very bad that people could not get loans, that it was this loan resolution scheme that encouraged the competition of other banks as well, and that the greatest success of the national housing savings scheme was to eliminate itself, that such conditions were established on the market for bank housing loans, that no special intervention by the State was necessary. I believe that this scheme should be phased out and replaced by more targeted, more direct measures at individual critical moments and segments of housing supply and demand. But we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues from the executive and legislative branches of government. It is generally known that our population is old, that natural growth has been negative for several years, that fertility is at a relatively low level, that the average age of a woman has risen at the birth of a child. The fact is that quality and lifestyle have also changed, making it very difficult for an average young couple today to have access to housing. I believe that the unresolved housing issue is one of the important elements that speaks in favour of the late creation of a family, and that is a fact. The government with a coalition contract promises a comprehensive inter-resort coordinated family policy where there is a special place and concern in the area of housing policy, which is right. And that's nothing new. The previous governments have also dealt in various ways with this issue, which I think could be a common conclusion - it has not produced the desired results. If we ask why, we assess in the Slovenian National Party that due in particular to the so-called "per partes" or partial approach. I am afraid when I try to link legislation with different areas, that this government wants to drive the same, otherwise well-intentioned, policy, but we are again in the reality of "per partes". Undoubtedly, I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, it is a commendable decision covered by this law. The main objective, as we understand it, is to provide a subsidy to the widest possible range of young families under certain conditions such as: age limitation and, last but not least, censorship restrictions. As regards the price of the restriction, this is determined by the income of the family and the subsidisation of the market rent is basically 4 euros per square metre, assuming that the family belongs to 35 square metres of housing. As far as the following restrictions are concerned, I would like to stress the stiffness of our legislation, unfortunately. The young family is defined as a living community of both or one of the parents with at least one child who is not yet, I stress, school obliged. The age condition is 28 years. That means the mother is 26 years old, the father is 28, the child is 4 years old, the family is defined as a young family and exercises rights under this law. Life is life, we assume that the mother is 25 years old, the father is 26, and their child is 6 years old, and is compulsory. This family is no longer mentioned as a young family, although the mother gave birth to a child at the age of 19, which is significantly earlier than in the first case, and the average age of the second family is, of course, much lower. The government further envisaged subsidies for the purchase of the first apartment, for 2007, specifically for a three-member family of €480 per year. There's no doubt there's an incentive. There's no denying it. I would stress, however, that this policy must be viewed and resolved not "per partes", but in its entirety. Prices for housing are still around €120,000 and, on average, it is almost impossible for the average young family [[End warning sign]] to get to the loan. And if we take into account the temporary employment policy - Minister Turk has talked several times about this problem and the need to reform this policy, and I believe that Minister Podobnik will also nod and agree with this statement - young people find it very difficult to get credit for buying apartments because they do not have regular jobs and so on. But will it? [[End warning sign]] find out again that everything else is unchanged. Just give me ten more seconds. We understand that certain content is the subject of another ministry, another minister, another law, but these projects should be undertaken by the Government in cooperation with them [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u127	Mr. Barovich, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm done. I emphasize, not "per partes", in cooperation. But it's only right that stories happen the way they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u130	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, all others present! The National Housing Savings Scheme Act, which introduced the scheme in 1999 as one of the ways to promote the self-sustainment of housing issues, was, as we have heard, amended last year in the area of subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue. The practice showed that the criteria were too strict and therefore only 172 families were eligible for the subsidy on the basis of the invitation to tender issued last year. The novelty we have today is particularly important for three reasons. Firstly, because of the wider range of subsidies beneficiaries, these are still young families, but they will be eligible for subsidies under more favourable conditions, assessments by the Ministry of Environment and Space, as we have heard, show that these beneficiaries could be more than 2000. Secondly, this novelty is important because the purposes for which a subsidy can be obtained are spreading and, thirdly, because it is subsidised to rent apartments to young families. We welcome the novel in the Slovenian Democratic Party and believe that it will help to resolve housing issues more quickly, especially those most in need of this solution, says young families. In doing so, we stress that this is one of the measures in the residential area that needs to be combined with everyone else. In particular, measures to ensure the construction of an adequate number of affordable dwellings. For this reason, we believe that everything must be done to operationalise the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the transfer of a million square metres of land from various national authorities to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia as part of the additional assets and that it is necessary to ensure that all other procedures are in parallel with the formalities required by the transfer of land. Since the adoption of spatial plans or their changes by municipalities where these lands lie - this is mainly the municipality of Ljubljana, where these things in the previous mandate were very poor, static, virtually nothing has happened, now, as we hear, the procedures are moving faster - to the preparation of project documents that can run parallel to these changes. This seems very important to us because it has been for several months since this decision was adopted and is somehow awaiting this formality. We believe that all these things can run parallel, but they are an important impetus for the construction of affordable housing where they are most needed, says Ljubljana, and where these distances between the market price and the price that is somehow provided by the housing fund in this building are the largest. In addition, we believe that the time changes since 1999 have done their part; we have already heard about this today; the supply of banks and other financial institutions has increased; and that the time for redefining the national scheme is appropriate. The scheme is increasingly being applied as an instrument of long-term savings, which is not bad from a national economic point of view, but it is good, but it is becoming less and less an instrument for resolving housing issues. For this reason, a suitable upgrade is necessary and we believe that it can be upgraded, not eliminated in such a way as to provide an additional impetus for resolving housing issues, particularly those who deserve it most. At the hearing of this novel on the competent parental committee, we have also heard certain speculations about this, since this subsidy will virtually not solve anything if combined, means a few square metres of housing. Now, we wouldn't be running into this speculation. The fact is that housing construction has been as intense as it has ever been in recent years. The fact is that there is also a gradual decline in housing prices. Above all, the fact that this intensity has increased in those environments that are not in the strict centre of Slovenia, Ljubljana and those locations that achieve enormous prices due to such or other speculative earnings has increased in an area that is accessible within half an hour to Ljubljana. We already have cases where the housing market does not exceed 1,400 euros per square metre, and where in such areas the fund provides housing for young families under even more favourable conditions, it is said that there are around 1200 euros. This is what we believe is the right path and we support it and we believe it is necessary to support it further. We also believe that the comments we have heard about the need to maintain tax reliefs that are supposed to solve this problem more intensively than this novel are not appropriate because tax reliefs would primarily solve the problem of the rich, the problem of those who, [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] those who do not have housing issues that do not have problems with solving housing issues are said to have housing issues resolved, and we believe that the way we are witnessing in this novel is more appropriate today. [[...]] For this reason, as I have already said, we support and support the novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u132	Thank you for your word and once again a nice greeting to everyone. We support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on national housing for savings schemes and subsidies for young families in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. However, we would like to point out that it has been two years since we warned that the Government's proposal for subsidies at the time was ineffective, as it has proved that the conditions for obtaining subsidies are too severe. In addition, at the time of the amendment of the National Housing Savings Scheme Act, we warned that subsidies provide all one square metre of residential space, our amendment to the proposal at the time was to provide subsidies of at least five to six square metres of residential area. This would, I think, really talk like that, encourage housing and subsidize young families. Notwithstanding the fact that this amendment has not been adopted, in the meantime, what we would like to draw particular attention to has also been the amendment of tax legislation. Tax legislation has abolished income relief for housing construction, so many who already have leased loans, housing loans and want to solve their housing problem will no longer be eligible for income relief. In this way, the country will raise between €20 billion and €40 billion in its budget. And if we make a comparison with today's bill, when we say that subsidies and funds are foreseen for these subsidies amounting to 2 billion, then it is very difficult to say that this is an effective solution to the housing problem of young families, or otherwise to solve this problem in Slovenia. You take 20 billion and you pay back 2 billion. This is in no way acceptable and speaks of the fact that it does not actually take a serious approach to solving the housing problem especially for young people. In addition, we would like to point out that, in the last period, we have been facing great investment, both in the modernisation of the government palace and in the other part of the European Union's Presidency Palace. We are aware that we both need it, but it is difficult to accept the fact that we are collecting funds to deal with this issue precisely in the context of tax reliefs to solve the housing problem - the source seems really inappropriate, especially because we want to define in this same law the objectives of increasing fertility and thereby the demographic picture in Slovenia, and that families will first decide on the birth of children and so on. In short, there is a lack of effective aid system and subsidies for young families themselves, which will reconstruct or change the destination of the surfaces, is an appropriate measure and we welcome it. However, we would like to point out that this law also introduces a subsidy for rents, but these rents are only subsidized to those families who study. In Slovenia, according to the proposaler, 500 such families are expected, and in the Social Democrats, we ask why only those young families are being subsidized by the rents they are studying. What about other young families who have finished, for example, or did their parents graduate from a vocational school, a high school? Don't they live in apartments for which they pay their profits? I'm sure that's the way they are. And we believe that there are even more than those who study and that even more difficult to pay these profitable rents. So this law has one big flaw not to follow all young people, but in this case only some. So we want to really get more comprehensive laws for this area in the future. Nevertheless, we are aware that this law only solves things, and that is why we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u133	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Respectable experts from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we assess the law as a positive step and we will also support it. However, we are concerned because we feel that this step is too short. Of course, such a policy is based solely on subsidies, but there are not enough parallel long-term measures, as we have warned before, is not, cannot be and will not be effective. Simple regulation is not enough, it will have to be cut down on the market, and this will increase the supply accordingly and then prices will fall and young families will be able to get to their homes more quickly and easily. Housing policy, both harshly and recklessly, and in particular is too slow to address the causes of high prices, so the various promises and novelties of laws on the real market are of course no longer affecting the real market, nor are they psychologically. The only right way to settle prices is to increase the offer, so providing more housing is somehow no longer the primary objective, rather than agreeing with all of us, that our country prefers those who want to own an apartment, not rent, and that needs to be adapted. Above all, it seems that everyone is looking forward to the already announced thorough transformation of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which in recent years has been characterized by large promises of nicer times for home buyers, the excessive sale of commercial dwellings to young families and numerous criticisms and constructions due to the quality of the apartments sold by the Fund. The bill that we are considering today is, of course, a housing policy measure, on the other hand, on the demand side. The bill introduces a revised system of subsidisation for young families who for the first time solve the housing issue. We will support the bill, as I have already mentioned, in the LDS Club, but we would like to point out that the professional public and the real estate market know the critical assessment of such a revised subsidy system. What's this all about? Experts are convinced that even if the increase in income prices and the expansion of the purposes for which the subsidy belongs to an individual increases the number of beneficiaries, the aid will still not be given to those who need it most, but the money will be dispersed and lost. And, of course, the conclusion that we all agree that these purposes are always too small. More understanding is given by the professional public to subsidise the market rent for student families. For example, Dr. Andrej Cimerman of the Faculty of Economics still rejects this kind of aid as unconceived, while under the current law there is a threshold of income, where, as it were, there is no real possibility of buying an apartment in Slovenia, and the new threshold will of course be even higher. However, what is bad is the same throughout the country and this is a fundamental error that does not remove the bill. In regions, for example, where real estate is most cheap, the country will make it easier for young families to obtain housing, and it is absurd that there may not be any serious housing problems in these regions or that citizens could have solved them without this subsidy. The housing problems are concentrated mainly in the larger centres, especially in our capital Ljubljana, where neither the income passed by the new threshold can the young family buy a suitable apartment. Which means that the bill has a greater impact on solving the housing problem, at least in our capital, it will not have. The professional public also points out that the bill will further encourage the demand for housing offers, which will inevitably be reflected in additional price pressures, which is what we all wish for at least. Where do we see solutions? In the LDS Club as well as the professional public, we believe that only in the larger supply of suitable building sites and apartments. For example, the Government should complete the transfer of land to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible, even as invited by its own Members, or to attach our pot to the mayors, the mayors in the municipalities could do more in this area if from the fund of agricultural land and forests had long been transferred to the municipalities from areas that could also serve housing. Regardless of what we say, the LDS is a step in the right direction, although it is small, we are no doubt in favour of it. Let us add something to the end: our wish is that a revised subsidy system, despite all the largest possible number of young families, will facilitate the purchase of their own apartment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to the representatives of the Government, Members and Members! We will support the proposal for amendments to the Act on National Housing Saving Schemes and Subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue in the New Slovenia Group for several reasons. In New Slovenia, I give special attention to those measures that provide conditions for the creation of young families. We believe that solving the housing problem is a matter that needs special attention. We are aware that today’s law is just one step that alleviates the distress of young people. Therefore, in the proposal for amendments, we first welcome the introduction of grants for student families. It is those young families who after the end study at least one of their parents solve their housing problem by renting an apartment on the market. These families will be given the opportunity to obtain a subsidy for rent by invitation to tender. Another novelty that will support the amendment proposal in the New Slovenia Group is the increase in the income limit for the acquisition of the subsidy and the expansion of the purposes for which the subsidy can be obtained. Last year's changes to the law introduced a novelty, a subsidy to young families. The response is relatively small, given that it is a novelty. Only 321 families applied for the invitation and not all met the conditions. Surely, such a response is also due in strict terms, both in terms of income censorship and in terms of purpose of consumption. Last year, 15 million tolars of subsidies were paid to families. The proposal for amendments now sets out the income limit applicable to the acquisition of a non-profit rental apartment, which will help to make the allocated funds more accessible. We know from our own experience that many young people are dealing with a housing problem by reconstructing or changing the object’s destination. In the New Slovenia Group, we are also inclined to make changes because we feel that the grant of the subsidy is extended from purchase to construction and reconstruction and to changes in the object's purpose. We believe that subsidies will thus reach a greater number of families. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware of demographic trends which show that the existence of the Slovenian people is at risk in the long term. The priority is precisely because of this commitment to such coherence in all areas of life that the demographic indicators of our society will in the long run point to the balance of all generations. I think it is necessary to stress here our commitment in all areas in order to give or ensure those basic conditions. We would like as many young families as possible, including as many families as possible, even at the cost of a longer study. For we know that the age when young people decide on their first birth is increasing. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on National Housing Saving Schemes and Subsidies to young families for the first resolution of the housing issue will at least contribute to a more favourable environment for family life, which is one of the foundations of our society. But it is true that we must also do so in other areas. Perhaps it would be right to draw on the plan or to prepare a rebirth strategy, which is certainly very necessary in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u138	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The last amendment to the National Housing Scheme Act was confirmed in the National Assembly at the beginning of last year. The novelty has brought about quite a few changes; it has clearly set the purpose of spending savings or premiums; interest rates have changed; and as a novelty, subsidies have been introduced to young families to solve the housing issue first. The latest news was, of course, important and welcome for young families, although it is about such an important and expensive investment as buying an apartment, just for symbolic help. However, after considering the novel in 2006, we stressed that this is an important first step of the country, which, however, indicates one of the possible assistance, especially for young families, in solving the housing problem. The last novel gave young families a subsidy of up to eight years, the first four years of € 160 and the second four years of €100. The invitation to tender following the amendment of the Act included 319 registered families and only 176 eligible subsidies, which is clearly due to the excessively imposed income threshold. This is also the reason for the changes to the law. Another important novelty is the extension of the subsidy for the reconstruction or modification of the destination of the facilities, as well as a special subsidy for young students. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the extension of the subsidy for several purposes and, of course, the less stringent income conditions for obtaining the subsidy. It probably does not need to be emphasized that the unresolved housing issue is an important factor in deciding for your own family. From this point of view, of course, all measures aimed at helping young people solve the housing issue are more than welcome. However, when this law is being considered, I must point out that there is a need for other competent ministries, as well as the government as a whole, to take certain measures to promote family creation. Last but not least, there are even situations where young people lose a lot of ratings due to the wedding, so let me mention a concrete case from a few years ago. Two regular students who enter into a marriage lost their right to a child allowance, which would otherwise have been received by the end of their studies. By law, marriage mates are obliged to survive each other. Such situations certainly do not promote marriage and family life. The possibility of a subsidy for reconstruction or change of destination is very important, for most young people need to know that most young people can't afford an apartment or an apartment. The proposed extension will certainly increase the range of potential beneficiaries of the subsidy. However, the proposed novelty of the law is a substantial novelty for young students when one of the parents completed his schooling. The fact is that more and more young people are studying and spend at least a few months looking for a first job. It is logical that at this time, because of uncertainty, young people do not think about family and children. Measures to alleviate the situation of young people who already have children during their studies are certainly very welcome. Last but not least, the fact that students, parents, because of the responsibility they assume at the birth of a child, are often successful students at the time of the study who soon finish their studies because they want to get a job as soon as possible. However, during the most sensitive period following the completion of the study and the search for first employment, they may face large social ones, as they must also support their child, which often means that they must have a solved housing issue. They're usually tenants. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law. We sincerely hope that the Ministry will soon find itself in difficulty, because of the lack of funds for subsidised lease purposes and remains eligible under this law. This will mean that the number of families and children is increasing and that the future is bright in front of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u139	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. Third reading, this is a decision on the proposal for a law, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, we will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DETECTIVE ACTIVITY LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Call Zinrajh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u140	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Law on Detective Activity explicitly prohibits detectives from carrying out detective activities for domestic and foreign security services, state authorities and political parties. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Servants, which entered into force on 14 April this year, provided that detectives may, irrespective of the provisions of Article 13 of the Law on Detective Activities for State Authorities, control any abuse of absence from work due to illness or injury and control of abuse of transport costs to work and to work. The amendments and additions to the law on detective activity are therefore intended to comply with the law on changes and additions to the law on public servants, and therefore the amendment of this law is merely because there will be no doubt in practice whether the findings of the detective are credible evidence for further proceedings. In doing so, we refer to both disciplinary and possible criminal proceedings. Amendments and additions to the detective law are not intended to bully staff but rather to implement the principle of good governance and prudent use of budgetary resources. More important than the introduction of surveillance with detectives, however, is the preventive effect that, according to our assessment, will deter employees from abuse. With regard to the comments put forward on the Committee that the financial consequences of the adoption of this Act have not been foreseen and shown, already the Law on Public Servants in paragraph 33a of Article 33a requires the chairman to assess whether the hiring of a detective is more appropriate than the internal control itself. Since we cannot predict the number of abuses in advance, we cannot predict the financial consequences, but there are known cases of abuse, particularly in terms of reimbursement of transport costs. The Law on Detective Activity does not limit the amended provision to 30-day suspension from work due to illness or injury, and the Law on Public Servants may provide that detectives also exercise supervision for the Health Insurance Office, which after 30-day period charges the cost of compensation. After a European study on working conditions in 2007, the employed Slovenian spends an average of 8.6 days a year on hospital leave, which puts us at the top of 31 European countries. The average of 27 members of the European Union is 4 days a year. Last year, the Institute of Health Insurance performed 1,685 so-called layover controls. On the basis of the above, there have been a number of 210 cases where infringements have been identified during the time of the hospital stock. Of these, 158 persons were found to have an unjustified absence and 52 insured persons had an unjustified exercise of a gainful activity. The law on detective activity explicitly prohibits the use of methods and means used by public authorities in accordance with the law. Amendments and additions further specify this prohibition as they stipulate that detectives must not use disguised investigation measures, methods and means used by public authorities under the law, which render any evidence of staff tracing unfounded. In fact, in order to identify possible abuses of the right to reimbursement of transport costs, it will be important to know whether a public servant is coming to work on the title given in the declaration. However, finding the place or verifying the reality of the data in that declaration cannot be considered a trace, according to our assessment. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u141	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u142	Thank you, President. Nice greeting in this afternoon's part of our session! At its 34th meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on detective activities. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council on the political system which supports the bill. A representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also participated in the meeting, who said that, in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, he had no comments on the bill itself. In the introduction to the articles and the explanation, the representative of the applicant provided an introductory explanation and highlighted the essential reasons why the law should be amended. In the discussion on the articles of the bill submitted, the members of the Committee devoted most of their attention to the proposed provisions of Articles 1 and 2 and to the amendments tabled by the Group of Social Democrats to these articles. The representative of the parliamentary group explains that with the amendments tabled, they only want to follow the reasons why the amendment of the law has been tabled in the legislative procedure. Some other comments were made on the solutions proposed below. The Minister also responded to the comments and questions raised during the meeting and again explained that the bill extended the right already granted to detectives, since all companies had been able to hire detectives so far, so all companies could hire detectives to monitor the hospital's shortages and transport costs at work and from work, but could not carry out these tasks by state authorities. According to the new report, public servants will therefore be subject to the same criteria as other workers, stressing in particular that there is no expectation that there will be massive controls in the future in the public administration. He also rejected the fear that detectives could use covert investigative methods when exercising control. The issue was also raised at the Committee's own meeting, and the Minister stressed that the detective should not use specific covert measures that only the public authorities could use under the law. After the discussion was concluded, the Committee rejected the proposed amendments tabled by the SD Group and adopted the draft law, namely articles of law, and proposed them for adoption by the SD Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity in essence, I will say, somehow complements the legal void created by the adoption of the Law on Employees in Public Administration. So far, we have had an empty legal void in this country. From this point of view, this law, I say, should be supported. The Ministry of the Interior cannot, in any case, blame such a law, despite having to defend it here, and I know that it is a very ungrateful task to defend such a stupid law, but as I have already said - it is the result of another law that you here, the coalition majority, have confirmed. When I asked the Minister on the Internal Policy Committee about the financial implications of the law, he told me that it would be very irresponsible if he predicted today what the financial consequences would be. Minister Virant, when defending each other's marriages, said that these polytheists who were blubbering the disease were 1.6%; hence, the financial consequences could be calculated smoothly. This law also gives the detective another title - the title of medical experts. Because it will be those who walk the streets and "paint" or not "paint" or write down whether someone with a damaged left leg actually stepped on it or not. Now, how fair, how real and how good, I believe you, in the coalition it's okay, it doesn't seem human and not good. True, private companies have had that opportunity so far, and they can do it, but with private money. Taxpayers are now paying these costs, which is a major difference. I'm not interested in private companies. As long as Damian Kolletnik found out if someone was drinking his disease, he hired a detective, and that's when it hurts because it's not his company. It's still a majority state-owned company, and it'll start to hurt me if he does. As long as it's his private company, I don't care. But, as has already been said, like the previous law, we will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the member of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Law on Detective Activity is due to the amendment of 33a. Article of the Law on Public Servants, which allows for more effective control of absence from work due to the hospital stock of public servants and, of course, the cost of transporting to work. This is only in cases where there are legitimate grounds for suspicion of abuse. Such solutions are already possible for other employees in the country. This solution essentially aligns the condition for all employees in the Republic of Slovenia. Similar solutions are known in other countries of the European Union, but Slovenia is no exception as it would like to be shown when accepting this amendment. The current law stipulates that detectives must not carry out tasks for state authorities and political parties. This means that they can carry out certain tasks of controlling the abuse of the hospital stock for all employers, except for national authorities, which is neither meaningful nor logical. Amendments to the Law on Detective Activity, together with the Law on Public Servants, clearly define when and under what conditions such supervision of staff may be exercised. Of course, the person must also be informed in advance that there is a suspicion that he is abusing the status of the hospital stock or the connection with the cost of transporting to work. Information may be obtained directly from a person or from other persons, but only under the conditions defined in Article 9, such as information may also be obtained on missing persons, authors of anonymities, conditions for the implementation of competitive clauses, on the business performance of legal persons and so on. In doing so, it should be noted that the person concerned must be warned in advance. However, the law expressly prohibits the performance of tasks for which police and judicial authorities are designated by law. It shall also not use the methods and means used by those authorities in their work. It is very important that detectives must under no circumstances engage in any activity for domestic and foreign security services. We support this amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats We will not support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law on detective activity. Most of the things that have been said about the changes and additions to this law so far are not true. It is true that the Law on Public Servants has recently adopted a coalition majority and has introduced a novelty in this law, that detectives can also monitor infringements of public servants associated with disability from work up to 30 working days and abuse of means of transport at work or from work, and that, in respect of both officers, the relevant administrative authority has the authority to hire a detective without clearly defined conditions. In the Group of Social Democrats, we objected to such content, to the new powers of the heads of administrative bodies, and to the view that, at least in the administration, it is possible to ensure respect for the rule of law in another way and to monitor any infringements in another way, but we have failed. But this is the beginning of this story, on the basis of which the Government now claims, and it is also being attached by coalition parliamentary groups, that the adoption of this law changes the Law on Detective Activities. It's only half the truth again. Half the truth is because, at the same time as the Government claims to ensure harmonisation, it extends the rights as set out in the Civil Servants Act. It extends them to the possibility of monitoring work retention not only for up to 30 days, but also for further periods, and monitors and extends them to the possibility of a detective to monitor violations for any infringement of work duties, but not only if it is related to the abuse of means of transport to and from work. And in the parliamentary group, we wanted to ensure the harmonisation of both laws, although we did not agree with the amendments to the Civil Servants Act, we asked the Government why it did not coordinate, but made this difference, and we did not get an answer. We didn't exactly get any answers. When we asked this question, the Minister answered only that coordination was necessary, but he did not say why these differences were. We think that they are unnecessary: whether they are designed to extend the rights of directives contrary to the Law on Public Servants - or whether they are made by reason of the Ministry's superficiality, I don't know, even today the answer to this was not given, because it is simply a matter of serious warnings that the opposition has given. When we also asked the Law-Legislative Service, what such uncoordinatedness means, we also received a recognition here that there is a lack of consistency. On the one hand, what will actually be the possibility of eliminating these consequences, it has been said that, with regard to the chairman of the administrative body, there will be a need to respect the Law on Public Servants and that this should have no effect on public servants, and on the other hand we will have the Law on Detective Activities, which will also give the detectives wider powers for public servants who are not allowed to perform them, because they will not be able to conclude such tasks and such contracts with the detectives. So, on a minor issue, the extreme negligence and inconsistencies of the legislative proposer and I think it is a shame that we are doing such things in the legislative process. Only this is why we will be against the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on Detective Activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you. Ms Mojca Kucler Dolinar will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u150	Thank you very much. As already mentioned, the proposed amendments to the Law on Detective Activities relate to the March amendments adopted by the Law on Public Servants, and this law is also being amended to comply with the amendment of the Law on Public Servants. To date, detectives have not been allowed to carry out detective activities for the purposes of public authorities, and the amendment of the Public Servants Act has extended this possibility and limited the possibility of controlling the hospital stock or the eligibility to reimburse transport costs. In the New Slovenia Group, we would like to stress once again what we have already stressed in the amendment of the Law on Public Servants, that we do not see in this measure any potential unjustified coercion or psychosis, of course it must not come and come to any abuse by the employer. In fact, it is only a matter of checking at the most critical times, when with no other means of someone who abuses a hospital absence for other matters, the purposes of which cannot be done things must be put in order. Given that this option will make equal treatment of civil servants and the private sector within the meaning of that option, we will support legislative changes in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Michael Prevc will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current Law on Detective Activities provides that detectives must not carry out activities or tasks for state authorities and political parties. It is clear that this is a restrictive provision, which is justified and meaningful. The conduct of a detective activity under the orders of the state authorities in the field of the powers of the state authorities could be very controversial, as there is a high risk of abuse. In the National Assembly, we have recently adopted a new Law on Public Servants, allowing, among others, the state authority or the chairman to control, in the event of suspicion, the possible abuse of public servants in the field of hospital absences and unjustifiable benefits in the payment of transport costs to and from work. This is also the reason why it is necessary to change or make clear what the powers of detectives are in this area. In our view, the solutions proposed are appropriate and acceptable. For they are without prejudice to the present principles of the law. The exemption from the other prohibition of carrying out detective activities relates only to the field of employment or abuse of hospital absence and transport costs. This is, of course, the relationship between the employer, i.e. the state and the employed public servants. Therefore, the detective activity is without prejudice to the areas under the original competence of the state authorities. The proposed changes are expected to ensure effective prevention of abuse of hospital leave and of the transport costs of public servants. In particular, it will be necessary, of course, to prevent any abuse that might be possible through the detective control of public servants. As we say, we will support the amendment of the law on detective activity in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the views of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Non-Related Members, indeed, we will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on detective activity, nor have we supported the amendment of the Law on Public Servants, which provided for such detective supervision for absence from work due to illness for up to 30 days and for monitoring the costs of public transport. This law should only harmonise these provisions in the Law on Public Servants with the provisions of the Law on Detective Activities. As already stated, this harmonisation goes further and beyond the scope of these harmonisations with the Law on Public Servants. And in fact, in some indeterminate or difficult way, this detective control introduces it in general as a form of surveillance for public servants. I'm not sure that's a good thing, I believe that the work of public servants is of such a nature that there is no detective who could force a public servant to work, to think with his head, to write and so on, to produce some result, and that if behind him, there will be a detective, it will certainly not do so. These forms of work carried out by public officials are slightly different, so it would be good to take care of the motivational side of these workers, but not just for supervision and control, in extreme forms. Does abstention in public services and public administration occur? It appears and must also seek and analyse the reasons why. Why in some body the absence of a hospital is more important than the absence of another body, even though age, sex, education, and other structures are approximately the same. If we were to answer these questions, what does it mean for people to seek the help of a doctor at times to give them rest for a few days or even more days so that they do not show up at work, we might be able to make it easier and better for them to do more and better, and you too would do better. So the classic, you could say hard not to say authoritarian answer is - if they don't work, send detectives after them. And, of course, we will not agree with this and, of course, we will reject the proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, it is not possible for amendments to be tabled in the second reading of amendments, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. Third reading, this is a decision on the proposal for a law, in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, as part of the half-hour vote after the end of the 27th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is on the evocative proposal of the Act on Supplements to the Act on the Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 134 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the floor first to the representative of the Council of State, Mr Marjan Maucec, to further explain the proposal for a law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Well welcomed, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. As has already been said, the State Council is in view of the situation because it came from more than one side as an initiative: it is said, from Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Australia somehow, when the State Council was involved in the visit to February, there was a shift in the need to solve the problems. The short, chronology of the Citizenship Act dates back to 1991, when we, as a sovereign state, also began to regulate the area in some way and was a 23-year time limit. Since communication at the time - especially was not in the electronic form of the Official Journal and everything was happening quickly and there were other problems of self-reliance, then somehow those people who were over 25 years old "extended" at that point. And then also your esteemed congregation wanted to fix the matter somehow with the next novel, that was in 2002. However, it has been 11 years since then, and those who were then 23 years old and over, it is said, somewhere in 25 years, have actually had only one year of opportunity to remedy this error because the legislator did not comply. And now we find that those who you are, and I have to say this because I read the magnetogram, on the board the vast majority warned about this problem, but somehow it hung in the air at the end and unfortunately it wasn't taken into account that there would be no age limit at all, and it is now found that with this change to 45 years -- because you need to know, since 1991 plus 16 years -- these people are so much older. In particular, it has also turned out that in the same families, with the same basic data for possible acquisition of citizenship, it appears that someone in a family one year older than another member of the family cannot obtain citizenship. And here somehow in this way this law, this change of law would solve it. It is also necessary to mention what the Legislative and Legal Service mentions that Article 1 of this amendment is political, according to your feelings, on your opinions. Article 2 is somehow clear that it is problematic from a legislative point of view to interfere with the administrative procedure. But right here it is necessary to say that the most specific comments were that this administrative procedure was not carried out as logically in Murski Sobota, Koper, Ljubljana, but this is Sydney, this is Buenos Aires, things are far away and then there are complications. However, we all know that the procedure under Article 13 is certainly different from that under Article 6, because those who have the conditions simply declare themselves under Article 13 must be proved and, of course, the good will of the current authority, how it reacts to it. So it would be good if this anomaly somehow went away. Nothing happens to that as far as the financial situation is concerned. Nor is there any fear that someone else who can now obtain citizenship under Article 13 would be granted citizenship. No one's gonna be able to get it anymore, only it's gonna be more elegant. Simply put, Article 13 is just like someone giving you a hammer and a tool to break through the wall - you come through or you don't come through Article 6 and you walk through the door. I think we owe it to our emigrants. The comparison with Europe certainly makes sense. There will be nothing more favourable here, in fact, I can say that all our countries around us have more elegant solutions, simpler solutions, and why we, who think we are a democratic society that respects our people around the world, would not allow them to do so. And I'm sure you'll make the right decision and I certainly expect that the Slovenians will also be around the world for [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u157	Thank you to the representative of the State Council. The following are the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS, we will not support the above-mentioned proposal for a citizenship law. The instigator, the bill's proponent, mentions that the initiative for the proposed change came from our people, i.e. people of Slovenian roots who live abroad. Among other things, the proposal raises the age limit for notification to citizenship to 45 years. It should be noted that Slovenia has already raised the threshold for notification to Slovenian citizenship from 23 to 36 years of age. For 23 years, there is a standard limit in other countries as well. The most appropriate solution for obtaining Slovenian citizenship, regardless of the age limit, is the law already in force which allows, this is Article 13 - to facilitate the acquisition of citizenship. Nor does it need to change the law. In the SDS, we believe that these changes would not make it easier for people of Slovenian origin to acquire Slovenian citizenship in any way, so we will not support them. However, in the SDS we join those who feel that they would closely monitor until the recently established amendments to this law, and if there were no desired effects, they would join in recasting the law with appropriate solutions. So, as I have already said, we do not support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u160	Given that we have always advocated in the New Slovenia Group that the area of the resolution of applications for citizenship should be better regulated, last year we supported the amendment of the Citizenship Act, which is intended to significantly accelerate and reduce the problems of obtaining citizenship that have arisen. With last year's novelty, we have made it significantly easier to obtain citizenship on the emergency naturalisation process. In this category, it is not necessary to meet the conditions of knowledge of Slovenian language and condition of one-year stay in the Republic of Slovenia, and in any case the person retains his or her original nationality. The reference to the ceiling of the years now proposed in this proposal has not been seen as a problem or this problem has not occurred to us. Where to set the right age limit to which notification of nationality by birth is still possible, discussions have already taken place on previous amendments to the Citizenship Act. The border had already moved from 23 to 36 years of age. From this age, it is possible to acquire citizenship through an extraordinary naturalisation process. We believe that the recently adopted law will address the problems with which the comments have been made and that it is necessary to wait at least a good year to see the effects of this law. For these reasons and also for the reasons stated by the Legislative and Legal Service in its position at the hearing of the home labour body, we will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u162	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Government, the Council of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The draft law on amendments to the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia was tabled in the National Assembly by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal concerns the acquisition of citizenship of persons of Slovenian origin. It is indisputably an extremely sensitive area, mainly for historical reasons; there are many Slovenians who live so much around the world and many of their descendants do not have Slovenian citizenship. In our view, it is the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia to provide for people of Slovenian origin in a way that enables them to acquire Slovenian citizenship. It is a matter of ensuring that the conditions of acquisition of citizenship are less stringent than those of other persons not of Slovenian origin. The fact is that the current law allows a great deal of opportunities to obtain Slovenian citizenship for persons of Slovenian origin. It is also irrelevant that Slovenia has been a single country for more than 15 years and that at that time persons with Slovenian origin have certain opportunities to acquire Slovenian citizenship. Of course, it is necessary to show a certain interest in this and to initiate the procedures envisaged. The fact is that in some ways it is difficult to oppose the objectives of the proposed novel, but it is also true that in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the existing law provides a sufficiently high level of benefit for potential applicants of citizenship - persons of Slovenian origin. In addition, the comparative review shows that Slovenia, in particular at the age limit for obtaining citizenship by birth, defines as much as 36 years of age, which is comparatively high age, but also for persons of Slovenian origin in the law Article 13 provides less conditions for obtaining citizenship than in other cases. On the basis of all that we believe that the adoption of the amendment is not in fact necessary, but it is worth stressing that if in practice the current regime proves to be impossible or unnecessarily hindering the acquisition of citizenship by interested Slovenians and Slovenians, however, it would be necessary to adopt procedures that would further simplify the process. We will not support the proposed law or amendment of the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We will therefore support the decision of the parent committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 27th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. [[He's not here.]] I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, Mr Rudolph Mohet, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u164	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! The Committee considered the decree by which the University of Maribor joins the new Faculty of Energy based in Krske, Hocčevarov square 1, and with an exhibition in Velenje. When the decree is adopted, this will allow the University of Maribor to have an extended network both in Koroška and in the lower states. The financial implications are as follows: next year - zero, 2009-312 thousand euros and 2009-689 thousand euros. It must be said that, in the general discussion of this decision, no one has debated that we have accepted amendments to almost all articles that were merely editorial in nature without a word on the committee. The members and members of the Committee then unanimously adopted this decree, which I would also like Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support amendments and additions to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. Finally, we took into account the amendments to the Constitution of the University of Maribor about a year ago when two new members were established, namely the Faculty of Science and Mathematics and the Faculty of Philosophy. However, amendments and amendments to the decree were also adopted due to greater autonomy regarding the study areas at the University. Today we have before us the addition of a decree with a new member of the University of Maribor, namely the Faculty of Energy, which was set up by the Municipality of Krško, and the Rector of the University of Maribor, as usual, appointed a working group to prepare an elaboratory for the establishment of a new university under the auspices of the University of Maribor. We certainly believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this is a positive decision, which, in our view, will contribute to greater competitiveness, innovation, as well as the success of Slovenia in the field of energy. It is welcome that the faculty will work in an area where the largest energy facilities operate, so we can say peacefully that practice will go with hand-to-hand study. It will also be very important to cooperate with other knowledge providers in Slovenia in order to achieve professional excellence and economic performance in this area. Especially today, as a member of the EU, we must pursue the objectives of both the Lisbon Strategy, which requires more and more work on the competitiveness and dynamism of the economy, as well as the Bologna Declaration, which obliges us to create a common higher education space by 2010. In the Slovenian Democratic Party we will support this change, as well as others who are more technical in nature and supplements to the decree of the University of Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! A lot of efforts have been made in the project, which is now becoming a reality. In anticipation of the great support of the National Assembly, I say that we will support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Resolution on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. In doing so it is necessary to note - or perhaps a better expression to commend openness - and the readiness of the University of Maribor for new programmes; also or especially for those programs that come from local environments. From an environment where people realize that investment in knowledge is the best investment and, of course, they want college, they want opportunities for higher education. The seat of the Faculty of Energy will be in Krk, as has already been said, with an exhibition in Velenj. It is therefore a joint project of two local communities. There were also some contradictions or speculations during the electoral campaign last year - but: end good, all good. I am convinced that cooperation between the University of Maribor to the local communities of Krško and Velenje and, of course, or in particular, the participation of economists, the economy, which will also be able to use the Faculty of Energy to draw on the staff that will serve them in the further development of energy - both in the Krka Valley and in the Silesian Valley. So thanks goes to all those who have been willing to make an effort to make this project a reality today, as I said. Faculty of Energy within the University of Maribor, of course, I wish you good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u170	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia estimates that such development of the university, such as in Maribor, is appropriate for Slovenia at this time. Instead of trying to establish a university in most parts of Slovenia and thus get some small universities that, according to their capacities and programmes, would not be able to fully educate in this area, we feel that this development, where we have two or three or four strong universities, at the same time in these places that are still in need of development, seems to us to be good. That is why, of course, we will support this decision from this point of view. It should be thought that more than 50% of those enrolled in secondary schools, when they finish, are educated in higher education and therefore there is an urgent need in Slovenia to establish new colleges. It seems to me that this is one of the bright examples, rather than for a college in a large center where colleges are already being established, these colleges are now being established in Krske and also with the branch office in Velenj. I think that energy belongs in Velenje and also in Krk because this college will certainly bring some development to these parts of Slovenia. If I'm exaggerating a little bit, I can tell you, there's even a point to this development. We want to go to the newly established colleges and to the places where it was established in their work a great deal of success.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Yes, I'm sorry, instead of Mr. Sok, Martin Mikolitch. Please present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you, Madam President. How do you do? How do you do? The fundamental objective of higher education and science in Slovenia is to increase the competitiveness of Slovenian society based on knowledge. In the Republic of Slovenia we have set ourselves to increase the number of people working with higher, higher or postgraduate levels of education. Some universities are more flexible and respond more quickly to the needs and trends of higher education. As the speaker of the University of Maribor, Mr Radonič, said on the working body, the new institution is an integral part of the development objectives of the University of Maribor. Universities are following these goals and we also support the amendments to this decision in the New Slovenia Group. In tertiary education, the number of students should not be reduced but increased. By amending the decree, we establish the Faculty of Energy as a member of the University of Maribor, which will have its seat in Krška. This expands the network of higher education institutions across Slovenia and not only limits itself to the main university centres. In this decentralisation we see a great advantage, as it will gain an environment in which the university is being established, and it will be closer to the students in that area. In Novi Slovenija, we are committed to changes that enable young people to develop their abilities as closely as possible, while developing previously neglected areas. We will therefore be happy to support the proposed amendment of the decree in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you. I conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since those who have been reported for discussion are not, I therefore ask whether anyone wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Dražavna choral. That means, use the right to the rest of the time. No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary motion for a resolution, the assembly will take a decision on the motion for a decree in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the votes. That's in half an hour at 2.25 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the meeting, which will be resumed at 2.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take your seats. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please check the operation of your voting devices. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Rail Safety. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted or that the amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 19. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. There were 13 votes against 35. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 31. Explanation of vote, Mr Weber, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u175	At least in this article and in this amendment, I think it is important that I explain my voice again, because this is an extremely important decision as to whether or not the investigation of the accident will be successful. Above all, I would like the commission investigating these accidents to have the power to finally give an opinion on the responsibility for this accident. So that the amendment is truly meaningful and I will support it. This would make a real difference in railway safety, which is also the basic purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you. Is there a need for an explanation? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 35. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 79. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 85 of the SD Group. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. For the vote was 14, jury 36. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 92a. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 107. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 6, 14, 79, 92a and 107 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. No, no, no. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 43 votes against 7. (The vote was 43.)(against 7.) I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal of the Law on the Conditions for the Status Transformation of the Mutual Health Insurance Office d.v.z. We'll proceed with the second reading. This is by deciding on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 5. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 10 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendment adopted in the second reading would not have led to any non-conformity. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. The Health Committee also proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The proposal of the Law on the Conversion of the Mutual Health Insurance Company into a Shareholder Society, second treatment, EPA 1385, is not suitable for further consideration." We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 54 votes to 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on Pre-existing Substances for the Prohibition of Drugs. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, no third reading amendments could be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 59 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 52 votes against 9. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on National Housing Savings Schemes and Subsidies to Young Families for the First Resolution of Housing Issues We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 59 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the law on detective activity. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 21. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law supplementing the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Kramberger, please, on your behalf!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I want to explain my voice in my own name. In fact, I will also speak as President of the Commission for relations with Slovenians in place and around the world. Every time we meet our fellow citizens, we receive criticism that Slovenia is solving the problem of citizenship in an inappropriate way. This inappropriate way is that there is a certain age limit impeding Slovenia and Slovenia to acquire Slovenian citizenship. On the other hand, it is not appropriate for Slovenians and Slovenians to serve Article 13 of the so-called extraordinary naturalization for the acquisition of Slovenian citizenship. It is said, like all other Earthlings on this Earth who want to acquire Slovenian citizenship. That's not right. And this proposal, which the Council of State has put into action, has also not fully addressed this issue. However, there was also no substantive approach on the part of the Government to be able to resolve this in its entirety. So it's a problem that we're still going to have to deal with and deal with it properly. As a matter of fact, I will not support this conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr. Han? [[He's quitting.]] Any other wishes to explain your voice? [[It's not.]] We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amendment, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to the nature of the working body of the amendments adopted, the decision proposal would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 60 votes for, no one. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - This is on the proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Ratification of the European Convention on Extradition, the Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition and the Second Additional Protocol to the European Convention on Extradition. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted in the context of the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. Period of the agenda - This is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Safety of Persons of the United Nations and of the Accompanying Persons. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION ON COOPERATION AND INTERMEDIATE ASSISTANCE IN CUSTOMS MATTERS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 31. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THIS IS FOR CONSIDERATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR A LEGISLATION OF THE 1999 FOOD AID CONVENTION. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. This is for the approval of the official refined texts of the laws. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Services and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Cooperatives Act." We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the officially purified text of that law has been confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Law on Public Servants." We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport shall be confirmed." We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated texts of the Law on the Prevention of the Limitation of Competition." We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office." We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially purified text of the Plant Health Act." We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Quality and Safety of Human tissues and cells intended for treatment. On Wednesday 20 June 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 56 votes against 4. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Limitation of the Use of Tobacco Products. On Wednesday 20 June 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. As no amendments were adopted to the draft law, no third reading amendments could be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the proposal inconsistent. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Barovich!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you very much! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I publicly state that we will not support the law. The law is unconstitutional. We will make a request for constitutional review, Mr Minister, and we will deal with it for a while. There's more than one reason. Among them, I should state your insubordination, so that at least one year of time we can bring the law into line so that everyone can prepare. Secondly, because you don't want to hear that we have the Constitution - it says in the constitution that minors or people from 15 years of age have the right to work, you forbid them. What kind of store doesn't sell cigarettes?Oh, my God! And because of you, Mr. Secretary, many young people will again be unemployed because they will not be employed as traders. Yeah, of course they won't, because they can't sell! I understand he doesn't sell to someone who's 18 years old. You can smile because you won't be for long. Then we will. Come on! [[Laugh.]] Where does it say? Why can't a 16-year-old who finishes a commercial school work as a salesman? Why not? Because of your marriage. Since he can't sell the box, he won't be allowed to buy a date, he won't be allowed to work. This is bullshit. You forbid me to do what I want. And there's a lot of nonsense in this marriage. Because you're more servile than the servants. But that's the worst because you're transcribing something from Europe that's completely made up, which has already changed in Italy, and you think it's still sacred! This law is unconstitutional, and we will, of course, defend ourselves in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u180	Thank you. Mr. Battelli, you probably didn't mean to explain your voice? Will you? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u181	Yeah, I'm not the only one who gets it wrong sometimes. I'll vote against it because I think this law is persecutive. Especially the older smokers, the ones we've been smoking since it wasn't - not only was there no ban, but the whole world was smoking everywhere. And that's what the state allowed for decades. But now that we're hooked, let's put these people in a position where they have to feel humiliated when they smoke. I don't think that's right. In addition, in my opinion - regardless of these cases from Ireland and other countries, this is a private intervention, because the premises are private property as well. Locations, clubs and so on and adults, because there is no ban on smoking or banning the sale of tobacco products, a general ban. Adult people can decide on a certain basis, the Society Act or whatever, to socialize as smokers in places where they can also eat and drink. It's not necessary to go to a place like this, but I think this should be possible. In short, this law seems to me to be criminal and persecutive and inconceivable to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u182	Thank you. Is there any interest in an explanation in your personal name? Yes, it is. I'm opening the application. Mr. Gulic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u183	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! The law we now adopt is again one of this series of tutoring laws, but it's also a touristic one. They're directed at a man, against a smoker. You're talking about restricting the use of tobacco, but with all this drive you've cooked, you've stigmatized people. That is true, because today I was looking in Ljubljana at six pharmacies of so-called plant cigarettes. So, cigarettes that don't contain tobacco, but just some papaya extracts, hazelnuts, menthol and so on. They haven't been on the market for a month. Nobody knows why. They can't tell. They just disappeared. So the substitute that's supposed to help get away from nicotine addiction is gone. That's one of those stories. The other story, of course, is that you didn't want to agree to any of the amendments, if that, of course, smoking is so harmful that it devours the one who smokes, and the whole neighborhood. Mr. Minister, even the "grey" devours the one who is the "greet", and also those who must live with him. And this is actually what should be banned in this country. And even some matter that you have made a perplexing change of course, including relaxation, as you perceive it, should be. You're making me nervous. I think everyone has the right to the last cigarette.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u185	You don't have to tie your eyes because then he wouldn't see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u187	We're gonna go out because we're a little civilized.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you for removing the Member of Parliament. There's still an interest in explanation of vote. I'm opening an application in my personal name for explanations of vote. Mr. Puksich. Here, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you very much! Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. President! Unlike other previous colleagues, I am convinced that this is one of the better laws that the Minister of Health has adopted. It was high time we got such a marriage in Slovenia. Colleagues and colleagues, there's a big hole in the health field and there's a lot missing. By the way, go and see the hospitals looking at the rooms where your mother, wife or anyone else is lying when they're in surgery. Go and see the rooms where they lie after neurosurgical surgery and so on. Today, at this heat, almost none or very few hospitals and these rooms have air-conditioned rooms. Instead of funding from health insurance many patients who have been created right and because of or solely because of the use of tobacco products, I believe that we will be able to use these funds as a standard for the quality of patients in hospitals, but not to use these funds to deliberately spend our health. Minister, thank you and finally we have something good in this Parliament and in this country. I will be happy to support this law because it is good for citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I cannot support this law simply because I feel that in addition to this law we should adopt another law in this National Assembly, if we are talking about harmful substances for people. The discussion and the conduct of the whole "camp of smokers" reminds me of some time when we in some former way called the Yugoslav human army the non-strikers were stigmatized and we should not have so-called smokers pauses. Back then, it was the only time I smoked alone. I think we're doing it the way we do it. And if this is referred to as the most important product of the Minister of Health in this mandate, we do not have to worry about what the Minister of Health really should be worried about. The Minister of Health should be more concerned about the health of second-hand smokers, which we are trying to do here in some way, to ensure that the health system remains as solid as it has been so far. Now, with some story about changes and additions to the Law on the continued use of tobacco products with so-called non-existent tobacco smoke, we have blurred the real health problems. I think that by adopting this law, the minister should say good-bye to the chair under the President of the National Assembly, and we should be less campaigning to deal with health-care issues. That's why I can't support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We'll open another round to explain the voice. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go! The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman! In this law, we are once again witnessing one of the capital nonsense that the Minister of Health has brought about and the duplicity of the majority of Parliament. There's a whole bunch of smokers in here. There are many who smoke, who will smoke, but must vote for this law. It's totally bullshit. And what else is the matter? It doesn't bother you that pedophiles walk freely on the roads to rape children. That doesn't bother you. You're disturbed by smokers. I'm not a smoker. I've never smoked, but still let those who smoke have one right. Let them be equal citizens. Let them have in certain places what I know about smokers. No, we'll ban it. The Minister, who himself was a smoker, just proves the thesis by which the one who turned and turned was then the worst advocate of the opposite side. That's deviant. We know that alcoholics who turn fall into the opposite extreme. There's something about smokers. I'm saying, alcoholics who turn, not those who don't turn around yet. In short, I don't think I can support a marriage like this. We can't support him. Let us give people the opportunity to smoke, to smoke, but to smoke in restricted areas. And have it written "for smokers" at those inn. And whoever goes in there goes in on his own responsibility. Planes fall down all the time. However, I don't expect the Minister to be in the next term if I don't think he's going to be here anymore, but then he's going to ban the plane ride because it's deadly. I mean, it's totally bullshit. You're not going to think about it, but we're going to vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Chairman. I say as a liberal, I will support this marriage, but not without reflection. I put two things on the scale here. The fact is that - say - 25% of coronary diseases are due to nicotine, 75% of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as well. 90% of lung cancer is due to smoking. On the other hand, when you put on the scales of your decision or against it, it is also important to take into account that this law no doubt also violates the rights of an individual and, perhaps, the rights of a wide range of individuals. When I weighed my own decision to be in the middle of something, it was bad and difficult, I just estimated that those who were banned were of benefit, no doubt more than those who were harmed, and that is why I would support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you, too. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 45 to 13. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on private protection. On Thursday, 21 June, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would not have led to any non-conformity. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. The vote was 43 to 10. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on State Border Control. On Thursday, 21 June, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. As amendments have not been tabled in addition to the proposed law, no third reading amendments can be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will proceed to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law on grounds of amendments adopted on the home working body would not be harmonised. I'm opening a procedure to explain my voice. Here you go! We have seven Members of Parliament who have been reported. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Member Aleš Gulič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Member Milan Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u197	It's this morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u198	Comrade Pukšič, if you'll allow us to continue the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u199	This morning, European leaders adopted a position to launch the Schengen border at the end of this year, with the end of March also with the border at the airports. The law we adopt will have an important impact on the existing regime of our borders. Mostly borderlines with neighbouring Croatia. Of course, the government will bear the consequences. This will affect about half a million Slovenians and Slovenes, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, and is substantively contrary to the SOPS adopted. That's why I won't support the marriage. Although, of course, the law is one of the so-called conditions for the implementation of the Schengen border. However, building on our southern border, such as the border between Texas and Mexico, does not seem European to me. All the initiatives, all the proposals that went against it, came across the deaf ears for a very simple reason. With the current government, the issue of border management has moved to the Ministry of the Interior and is regulated by police rather than being regulated in accordance with good-neighbourly relations. I'm sorry this is how it's gonna be. However, this will create many problems for people in life in the coming year. That's why I'm going to oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Member Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u202	Thank you. Member Mitja Slavinec has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] The word is by the representative of Vas Klavor. [[He's quitting.]] The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think the law is necessary and the law is good. Had it been written in the Slovenian National Party, it would have been much sharper and would have acted much more restrictively against those who are free to cross the national border, especially towards the Republic of Croatia. We have over 60 border crossings of the so-called green border, where all possible people walk through, among other things, a large number of gypsies who enter the Republic of Slovenia without documents and who, due to the irregularity of the situation in this area of social services, are well placed in the register and send rich cash prizes from this address so that they can then carry out their trades, such as that and other ones in peace. I think the law is too necessary. And it's better to confirm this marriage than to be against it. That is why we will, of course, support him. But I'm saying it again. The law is incomplete, the law is too restrictive, the law is still too open for some psychiatrists who will still be able to draw people into Slovenia who are not needed here. If anyone enters Slovenia, let those who have a certain integrity enter. Not to mention the representatives of various criminal groups. Interestingly, it is to those who have some credibility that the state does not usually allow entry into Slovenia, while all criminals arrange it in one way or another. And once again, the law is to support it. However, next time or in the next term, when others are in power, we will write a new one.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. There's 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on local elections. Yesterday, Thursday, 21 June 2007, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. As amendments have not been tabled in the draft law, no third reading amendments can be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government The National Assembly also considered this bill on Thursday, 21 June and carried out a second reading of the bill. However, since the amendments were not adopted in relation to the amended proposal, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law due to amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 44 votes to 13. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 9th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal for a tonnage tax law On Thursday, 21 June, the National Assembly held a second reading of the draft law. However, since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law would not be inconsistent with the law due to amendments adopted on the home body. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please! Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I guess I'll have to repeat what I said the last time. Actually, there was so much duality and so much hypocrisy this week that I was already a little sick. Look, we're talking to the law about how we're going to do everything great and cool for Slovenian shipowners, that we're going to equalize taxes with third countries, that ships won't go to third countries and sign up under - I don't know - Panamanian or other flags, but in the same breath, you give us a colleague, but a fellow Member of the Srečko Friends not because of him, I'm talking to the court at all, because on behalf of the Slovenian people, he warned of the suspicion of corruption, theft and the criminal act of alienating Slovenian property. General navigation, the story is quite clear. It was Slovenian property. It was bought by someone who was a German citizen, and immediately, a little later, not immediately, sold it back to the Slovenes, probably not for the same money. And now that we have Slovenians, he's probably hired it again for even smaller money from the same ship, which is being fine sold to foreign companies and driven under foreign companies and served this gentleman well. He makes good money at the expense of this country. We are now working out of this law as we are honest with Slovenian shipowners. I am right behind this law, but unfortunately you sold the Slovenian shipowners, ladies and gentlemen. You sold them, you sold them, they were stolen. I say so, and so it is. This is why in the Slovenian National Party such a double-faced law, which boasts about how you help ships that are not there, how you help them. You just help them. Just get me a list. I was especially proud of one ship. When we were younger, we listened on the radio, the ship Trbovlje sailed there and there and the sailors greeted the Slovenians and Slovenians. There's no more greetings, not the Trbovlje ships. She was cut up in Singapore. Who? You're giving this ship the law. Shame on you for this duality.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u206	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly, you will support the bill, Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u207	I said that, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we will not support such a double law.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? We're opening the procedure. Here you go, please! The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wonder, to whom do we honor or for whose good have we accepted this law? There are no Slovenian ships, unless we count two ships without a rudder or maybe eight ships with a rudder. But, gentlemen, they're not sailors. These are the boats. And it appears that Slovenia will have no more than boats, boats and little larger boats. This will be achieved because the General Sailing of Piran is being sold, in which the state of Slovenia has invested enormous money. I'm sure it's some suspicious business in the back. As already said, Happy Friend has begun to react to this business. What happened? He landed in court. And it appears that the Slovenians, those who are opening up issues of our integrity, the rule of law and even national pride, will have to be put in jail and may be run over by some sort of boat, probably. When there's a couple without a rudder, he's gonna hit him in the head or something. This is happening in our love of Slovenia and we are adopting laws in which I don't know, it's just like adopting a law that Slovenians under the age of 15 can't fly into space. Something like that. We don't have spaceships, but at least we once had ships, and we won't have them today. We've never had spaceships, and we'll never have them in such a foolish country. Of course, I won't support the law because I think it's stupid because I think it's a waste of time for such laws. On the one hand, we accept, I don't know who we're going to help. On the other hand, there are no such people. Somehow he's already written about Gogol, about the dead souls.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Bill on Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism. On Thursday, 21 June, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. However, since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled. Because of the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for a law was not harmonised, the Government prepared a harmonisation amendment to the 92nd article you received on the bench. Would you like to speak to the government about the harmonisation amendment? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Government proposes a harmonisation amendment to Article 92 of this Act. In the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Law, points 3 and 4 are amended. In point 3, the word "eighth" is replaced by "seventh" and in point 4, the word "ninth" is replaced by "eighth". A brief explanation. This non-compliance has been caused by amendments adopted on the home working body of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and is necessary in order to delete paragraph 6 of Article 13 of the draft law and consequently to renumber the paragraph in this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u212	Thank you, too. Do Members wish to speak? No, no, no. Then we can go to the vote on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We can now move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Mountain Routes. On Wednesday 20 June, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the assembly's proposer, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. However, since we have the amendments tabled, namely Article 32, we are moving on to the debate on these two amendments. Anybody want to talk? Can I help you? Check in. So we have two amendments to Article 32. Both amendments were proposed by the Liberal Democracy Chamber of Ambassadors. However, Member Saiovic has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a good Law on Mountain Routes, which even in the National Assembly - I am sure - enjoys a great consensus. It brings more order in this area and in some national sport such as mountaineering in Slovenia, there is no doubt more order and more pleasure for all Slovenes and Slovenes. Regrettably, we have overlooked, in article 32, a matter that is practically impossible to carry out. What's this all about? It is the case that point 5 states that the mountain route can be run as a sport event or competition, hereinafter referred to as a sport course only in cooperation with the custodian of such a mountain route. Of course, we fully agree and support this. However, in practice, it is impossible to implement the last three lines of this paragraph, which states: "before such a course is carried out, its organiser must, in addition to the permits and consents under the law governing the events, also obtain the consent of the owners of the land through which the mountain path is intended to run." Look, sports just don't burden mountain paths much more than just walking into hills. Even the opposite, sports runners do not carry food and drink with them. They run into pens of light shoes, take less steps because they skip rocks and roots. If I tell you some reverberating Slovenian runs that bring together thousands of Slovenes and Slovenians and attract foreigners to Slovenia, for one run such as that of King Matjaž, it would be necessary to obtain some 100 consents. Ttek na Grintavec from Kamnika Bistrica also, Slovenia's Alpine marathon, which has a greater participation from year to year and runs from Predvor via Tržič to Jezersko would require obtaining about 500 to 700 consents from individual owners. The four congregations, which were carried out very successfully 14 days ago, also. It is virtually impossible to obtain certain consents because certain owners are not either abroad or are in America or a denationalisation is under way or God does not give the land back to the agrarian community and the agrarian community can only decide on the consent by full 100% consent of all members. If you heard Mr Sturm well last time, he told me that these denationalisation and succession procedures would be approximately completed in Slovenia in the next 20 years. But at that time, if we want to carry out these important sporting events, we will no doubt have to break the law or break the law. However, I think it is better that we make these minor corrections to this article today. However, another issue concerning a similar amendment to the same article is that, as long as there is such an event as triathlons, riding mountain bikes, it is necessary to close the entire mountain path. See, some of the mountain paths - for example - that we cut off at a famous event called the Bohinian Triathlon have a distance of 15 kilometers and the bikers only carry it on 500 meters. In this part, I suggest we close the mountain path within 500 metres for other hikers, but not entirely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u214	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. Then we conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment. So, first we're going to vote on the amendment of the Liberal Democracy Club under number one. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The first amendment was voted 61 against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the same parliamentary group. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the second amendment has been adopted. I inform you that, pursuant to Article 140, paragraph 5, of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the two amendments adopted. That is why we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 12th item of the agenda - third reading of the amendment bill. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If you allow me, I would sincerely thank you, on behalf of the proposaler, for the approval of this law, and I wish you, when you walk on the lonely mountain paths and see this white dot surrounded by a red colobar, that you are surrounded by a pleasant feeling that you have taken care of the greater safety of the miners. At the same time, you should be proud that we are the only Alpine country that has regulated this area at national level.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u216	Thank you! I propose that we proceed with the suspension of the 12th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Hostages Act. On Wednesday 20 June, the National Assembly held a second reading of the bill. Since the amendments adopted in the third reading were not possible to be tabled in addition to the proposed law. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. On the basis of Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the amendment adopted on the home labour body would not have led to any non-compliance with the law. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. It's 55 votes to 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This also concludes this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. Comrade Pavel Gantar, do you have a procedural or just a discussion? So, as we say, we are moving on to a decision on Article 4 and the amendment of the non-aligned Group of Members. Voice explanation, I'm opening the procedure. Here you go. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I propose and appeal to the Members and Members of the coalition, and I propose that we jointly support the amendment tabled by the Group of Non-Aligned Members for the reason I mentioned yesterday. This isn't about the Owl Act. This isn't about the Police Act. This isn't about the Defence Act. This is a law on parliamentary supervision of these intelligence and security services. It's a law we realize ourselves. And I think it doesn't matter either, given the situation that we are depriving ourselves of certain powers to exercise more effective control. I therefore simply propose that we accept this amendment. If, of course, this amendment is not adopted and the amendment of the parties to the coalition is adopted, then we will not support this law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u218	Thank you very much! Ambassador Roberto Battelli. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I have also been dealing with this issue for a long time within the OSCE. I myself led the seminars on this subject and also proposed last year in Brussels a resolution adopted unanimously by the plenary assembly, a plenary session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The importance of control over secret services, but also, let me put it this way, the repressive apparatus of countries is known. The wider these control options, the better it is for democracy to function. The law doesn't just apply to these jobs. It also applies to groups controlled by them. This means that, of course, there must be no abuse in this control and that is what our legislation provides. That is why I think it is best to either reject both amendments and return to the basic text proposed or support the amendment of the Non-Aligned Members. We'll have a better quality of control this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u220	Thank you, too. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to reiterate Mr Kumar's appeal, in particular to the coalition, to consider and jointly support the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, which was essentially made on the proposal of the section: Dr Kavčič, Dr Pirnata and Dr Dvoršak on the issue addressed to them by the Commission in this monitoring. I would like to draw my attention to the fact that if the amendment of the three parties from the coalition were to be adopted, I would like to point out that the last sentence "in the control of those measures, the authorised group checks the cases already completed" - in fact, this means the abolition of parliamentary control over the work of intelligence services, Owls, criminal police, military intelligence services on ongoing matters. In fact, this means an end to control. Therefore, this Commission could only deal with closed matters after certain specifics, I hope that not too rigorous interpretations could even mean that it could only deal with cases that are closed, archived and in fact would be our addressee, "The Archive of Slovenia", not anymore Owl or the criminal police, and so on. I think such interpretations may be exaggerated. But we never know who will be able to present them like that. One more time. I think that we are in the Commission, in the National Assembly, all Members of the uniform opinion, that it is necessary to protect the secret co-workers or workers after all of these services, that this is done, that a procedure is also given, how this is done, and that these matters are, of course, protected, but at the same time, this Commission can still control the content and activity of these services. If we accept the amendment of the coalition, I personally have to admit that I have to ask myself whether I should even persist in this service or as chairman of this commission, or whether it is actually reasonable for you to waste your reputation and name when running a commission that has no powers. And I hope you will truly understand this and support the first amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u222	Thank you, too. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u223	Unfortunately, in my opinion, not one amendment or another is not good. It is absolutely unacceptable and harmful, even the conspiracy amendment of the coalition, which restores the matter at a time a year ago, I don't know what it was like when we actually excluded the security and intelligence service from ties with the criminal service or with the police. And so on, and now in one way or another, he's trying to intertwine these things back. The old dilemma is who controls the supervisor. And in this case, it can simply be said that if the director of the intelligence service of one or the other says this, yes, this is not the case, to the supervisors who want and we need to look into some things, I am absolutely committed to allow a way of looking that will prevent the abuse that will insure the collaborator and so on and so on. But that's kind of a possibility. For this, there are a number of mechanisms that cannot give the Director General of Owl or OSCE in law alone a general mandate to simply say, no, that is not. We have several cases in the past year, in the last year, where it was clear that abuses of the power holders were at stake in the service. So in Owl, in some other cases, that I wouldn't talk about how a minister might even say, "I'm the one who's gonna stop looking or I won't let you, because I'm protecting something else." Where can this thing go? Following this proposal from the four parliamentary groups, of course, it is completely opaque, unclear. And it reminds me of some other time that the chief of staff can simply say, "No, we're not going to let you into this data, you can't control it." Who, in fact, is authorized to do so? That is why, despite the fact that this amendment by a group of unrelated Members is better. However, when you talk about a matter being postponed indefinitely, it is unacceptable because it cannot be bound in a way. However, because governments are inclined to protect as much as possible, this, but also everyone else, will simply prevent this view by the end of the term of office. Because indeterminate time can never be. But it may be necessary to get a look at this one time. That's why I'm sorry. I will, however, reject the first amendment of the four groups of Members. I will vote for this, which will not be supported in any way. Finally, the best one in the basic text is the one.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application procedure on my own behalf. Here you go! The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This should be supplemented by a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services. And it is the amendment prepared by the coalition parties that abolishes this control. It says that in the control of those measures, the authorised group shall examine the cases already completed. That means sometimes it's called an "improve" in the military. In short, when it's all over, say something was wrong, but do what needs to be done. It appears that the Commission will now have an opportunity or that Parliament will have the opportunity to monitor only archives, young or old, in particular more or less purified. We are absolutely against this way of working in the Slovenian National Party. This certainly does not mean democratisation of society. And I'm sure we'll get a letter from Europe asking ourselves, "Dear gentlemen, have you gone to democracy or are you going back to those communist times when this was normal?" We will support the amendment prepared by the Non-Aligned Members. Although it is also a matter of delaying access to some documentation for an indefinite period of time, it is funny to write. But after all, this indeterminate time is more or less around four years when one government falls and another comes, even though it is pointless to wait four years. In short, with this amendment of coalition groups we're really going back, we're going far back. We go so far back, even until 1968, when they renamed the Judgment into the State Security Service and then threw similar articles out.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u226	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u227	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the amendment of the Non-Aligned Members. And I think if the next amendment were adopted, we'd essentially cut our wings. As far as practice is concerned, following a decision by the Constitutional Court and when new legislation in the field of criminal law has been adopted, we have come across in the exercise of supervision that we have had a great deal of orders that we have reviewed before this amendment of legislation. And it turned out that this commission had never betrayed these things or exceeded its powers, that when we came to the review, only four or five things were shown to us from the whole crowd. That means the legislation was already the one that narrowed our circle. But now we've gone to get the same rights back, to change this law. And if we accept that amendment so that we can look at just the things that have been completed, it means that we can only go to the archives to see which cases are closed. Some things last for several years. In the meantime, these services will work beyond any supervision. And there's something else. There is no need for a matter to be concluded. If it is premature to conclude that there is no criminal procedure, these things simply disappear and these things will also be out of control. That's why I think it's smart, surveillance is not a matter of position or opposition. But it's a matter of Parliament's relationship to the government. If we still have some pride as Members, and if we have our dignity, we should not cut ourselves out of the possibility that we can really have quality control. However, as colleagues have already said, this amendment is such that it really limits cases so that they cannot be used to detect an employee or witnesses.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Comrade Paula Gantar in his own name. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, I, unfortunately, cannot re-explain the vote to the debate on these amendments and these honourable colleagues. I will not mention them, because I am not allowed to do so now, and some doubts have been expressed in this first amendment of the Non-Aligned Members. I would like to reassure them that this review of this documentation is an impossibility also refers to the fact that a name can be covered, erased or otherwise physically or otherwise concealed. Even if it is in electronic form to add services in some reasonable way. Yes, and if this chairman refuses to do so, then there is a procedure that is otherwise in law. In the end, I would agree with one of the pronouns who said that this indefinite time is the time for a government to change. And this is better than an indefinite time forever. Besides, you can't review the current requirements. In short, it's something that you can still land on. In view of the fact that the protection of workers and workers is indeed a necessary and urgent matter. That's what everyone's warning us. Thank you. Of course I'll support this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u230	Thank you, too. Member Miran Potch has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u231	Thank you very much. There are two reasons why I think it would be wise to support perhaps the amendment proposed by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Certainly not the amendment proposed by the three largest opposition groups. One is important, very important substantive reasons, which, if not already said, will make it impossible, but at least very significantly reduce the content of control. That's a fact. Anyone who doesn't admit it just doesn't know what the task force is doing. I don't know what will be adopted in the amendment. And second. I would just like to point out that, with the initial ideas for amending this law, we have started on the basis of the agreement of the parliamentary groups, that we have been empowered to sit together, in cooperation with the committee, to prepare the text of the law and that we have done so, and that, before a good month ago, one attempt by the three coalition groups has already been made to introduce such a provision, and at my warning from our parliamentary group and at the agreement of everyone, it has been found that such an amendment is unacceptable. Please remember that time and find that it is right that you are of the same opinion today and that you do not support the amendment you tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u232	Thank you, too. We can go to the vote. We will first decide on the amendment of the Ambassador of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 4. In doing so, of course, I remind you that, if the amendment is adopted, the amendment becomes number 2 in order, i.e. the amendment of the four ruling parties, irrelevant. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Comrade Skull, you have the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u233	I want to explain my voice. I think it's possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u234	You had the possibility of having all the Members, twice in a row, but...
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u235	No, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u236	You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u237	Mr President, it is a debate. Can't explain the voice twice in a row. The second is the explanation for the voice. I understand the procedure so that the debate is now over and that we can move on to explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u238	School buddy, now it's real. Don't you know the Rules of Procedure? We closed the debate yesterday, today I opened two rounds of explanations for the vote and none of the Members before you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u239	on amendments [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u240	Discussed, none. [[...]] But it was an exclusive explanation for the voice. That's why I won't give you another word this time. We're going to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u241	That's -- I'm gonna tell some perfect new ones.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u242	A fellow schoolboy!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u243	Mr. Vice President!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u244	You don't have a word. We continue to go to the vote. Here you go, please! There are 59 Members and Members present. The amendment was voted 22, 35 against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I'm opening a procedure for explanation. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Marian Drofenik has the floor. Here you go! [[You're giving up.]] The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I will say that this amendment, if we accept it, pushes us back into the years of the previous millennium. It's a system by which no one has the right to look at what's going on. I think there is now a controversy that has shown how important it would be for the Commission to look into existing and ongoing matters. Right now, yesterday we were on TV talking about this thing, and today you don't understand what was said yesterday. I wonder if you understand anything about these matters. It is true that as far as intelligence services are concerned, these specific matters are concerned, but at least believe as the Liberal Democracy after the fall of power wailed and wept over the adoption of the Rules of Procedure which it has submitted so that it can happen to you that you will not be able to control what those in power are doing. Do not allow yourself to be deprived of your rights. Don't let that happen. Because once you lose your rights, it's hard to get them back. You usually get them after most of you are out of Parliament, and then when you're at the inn crying and crying, what kind of bastards are up there, because no one can see it or hear it, but there's a lot of shit going on and on. To avoid this, at least to this, let's be against the amendment that's been tabled. The amendment isn't smart, the amendment doesn't make sense. I'm not going to talk about democracy, because it's for some pears, and for some potatoes, it's still in the ground. So it makes sense that this matter is not supported. I'm sure you'll support her, because that's what they told you to support. Best not to think about these things - just press the button. That's how it's gonna happen. But there will be some of us against this amendment. And in time, when the water runs down your throat, then you remember, but they were right to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u246	Thank you, too. Explanation of voice. Ambassador Pavel Gantar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This amendment must be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u248	Thank you, too. Explanation of the vote - Member Joseph Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I count on your implicit admission that you did something wrong earlier when you didn't let me explain your vote on one amendment, and let me do it on the other. Thank you very much. What I would like to say is that if this amendment is adopted, the entire agreement that parliamentary groups have had on the issue of security control is at stake. There is also a threat to the floor control system. It has been moved to oversee the cases that have already been completed, that is to say, those things that are happening now will eventually be able to be monitored by the parliamentary commission in the next term. This is not the point of our parliamentary commission. Therefore, Mr Vice-President, in order not to raise your hand again, consider that if this amendment is accepted, our Group of Members is predicting a 20-minute break for itself and, if necessary, for others who consider this solution to be problematic, we will agree on how to proceed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u250	Anybody else want to explain their voice? We're opening the procedure. Again, twice. Please all those who wish that it will not be necessary as before, the third, the fourth, and so forth. Here you go! Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! In the event that this amendment is adopted, I declare in advance or propose a harmonisation amendment. Because the content will no longer be the same. The harmonisation amendment, however, speaks of the fact that the title of the document will not be the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parliamentary Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, but rather the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on archiving supervision. That's true, and it's stuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u252	For you, colleague Barovič, for your colleague Školč and all those who still intend to discuss the harmonisation amendment, I will invite you, after the National Assembly sees whether the amendment will be adopted or not, to call on qualified candidates. Then it will be a good time to predict further steps. That's why I can't take your predictions from this town right now. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now I have another suggestion that you do not support your amendment, which you have tabled. I'll try to practically explain it to you. If we accept this amendment, this commission really doesn't make any sense anymore. Since the Director of the Owl will be able to say from tomorrow that all matters are still unfinished, the reasons are that there is no control and we will not have or have nothing to control. The same applies to military intelligence and the same applies to the security part of the criminal service. That's why I'm appealing to you again. I don't know why we take this responsibility for ourselves and this opportunity for effective and normal control. I don't know why. Because it's one of the few laws that we're going to adopt and we're going to have to implement. Tell us another law that we have adopted, and we must implement it from A to Z. This is a law on parliamentary oversight of intelligence security services. And I just don't understand why you're against this control. Then I propose that we vote on abolishing this law on parliamentary control. And other institutions may exercise this control by legitimate, legal authorities in the country. And I urge my colleague Barovic to write a new law on the control of archival material in the Archive of Slovenia. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u254	Thank you. Member Milan Cwickl has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u255	The amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Parliamentary Oversight of Intelligence Services are related acts. At the very least, Members of the ruling coalition should be aware that if you adopt this law, this law will be contrary to Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that working bodies are established in the National Assembly to monitor the situation in specific areas. And we will take into account the position of the Legal and Legislative Service for a similar story of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances, but we will obviously have to apply this provision. So, Members of the ruling coalition, even though this is contrary to the gentlemanly and otherwise-agreements, I strongly recommend that you do not accept this amendment. However, this experiment and this transfer with yesterday's amendment shows that you do not want to really have full parliamentary control in Slovenia, either over intelligence and security services or over other areas. And I regret this because I think we are all members of the National Assembly, not this or that coalition or the opposition in the first place. I therefore propose that we reject this amendment. If not, Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure shall continue to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u256	Thank you. Member Rudolf Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I intend to reject this amendment myself. If we accept this amendment again, I do not know why, despite the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, we are limiting ourselves to such a level that we can really only review old matters. So we can go through things that are no longer liquid and are in archives. I don't know why. I didn't hear one argument about why. Does this National Assembly want to do what has been shown so far that this National Assembly has also not had sufficient jurisdiction for irregularities that have proved to be in the intelligence services? Isn't this big enough for us? Or it would not be good if we had the powers on which Members could come and demand certain things, but not that the entire commission should come, sit in the office of the chairman of this service, and say, "This, this and this are unfinished matters, go, we can go to the archive, and we'll just look at these things if I paraphrase a bit." If Parliament wants to have such control then forgive me, I see no point in participating in such control. It seems to me that if I paraphrase something like that, someone would invite me to a sail regatta and give me a sailboat with no sails and I could sit in a boat like that, but I wouldn't be in my right mind. And also those who have been favored by the National Assembly with this honour to be able to carry out this business - we had to have 46 votes to win this mandate at all - should have so much confidence in us, Members, that we have done this right and that we have worked for the good of this country. But if we accept this amendment - I don't know - who wants a worse situation in this country than it is now.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u259	When I first read this amendment, I thought it meant that the Director would be able to prevent the authorised supervisor from the Cabinet of the Prime Minister from reviewing various archives, reviewing lists of agents and so on. But then I saw that the already logical restrictions necessary to protect these agents actually refer to the commission that is supposed to oversee it. Surveillance is never enough. And to say that it makes sense to limit something, but not to say that it makes sense to control something because we are set up for it, because we are elected from these citizens and citizens, that is a perverse logic. It's unacceptable. We must make every step possible that will contribute to the monitoring of all things. I hope no one thinks that I want Parliament to look at the list of co-workers. This can be ensured through cloaking mechanisms. But, just as the services are organised and it is right that they work for both the domestic and the international public in secret, effectively ensuring that, indeed, what documents they obtain, that, on the other hand, the powers of the National Assembly and the responsibility of Members to be able to control, verify with third eyes whether the use of powers is properly in accordance with the law or whether these specific methods and means are also used in accordance with the law and ultimately the use of money for these purposes. And that's why this amendment is a real, real step into history.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. Then we turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 4, tabled in the procedure by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 33 to 29. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. So, in the second reading, we had one amendment adopted to Article 4 of the amended bill, so I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this article? Comrade Skull, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I propose, as I said before, that you give the LDS Group 30 minutes' rest in order to consider how and with whom we can table an amendment for the third hearing. Please, if you'll allow us to do this.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u262	Comrade Pavel Gantar, do you think you wanted the same thing on your behalf? We'll suspend the session and resume at 16 hours and 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u263	Dear Members! Please take your seats. We'll start with an earlier adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Comrade Skull, here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We also took a 30-minute vacation to agree, together with the leaders of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, the SNS and the Non-Aligned Members, on a joint proposal to reconsider the amendment, to table it and to correct the situation created by this vote. A draft of such an amendment will be submitted on our behalf by colleague Gantar. However, we believe that this must be debated with other parliamentary groups, given that this is a joint draft of both the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the amendments to the law. We therefore believe that this situation needs to be exploited in order to carefully rethink and agree and propose the postponement of both the decision on this point and, consequently, in view of the time I will say, one of the parliamentary groups is running out of voting on the Rules of Procedure for the July session. In principle, the President of the National Assembly agrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u265	Thank you. Allow me to repeat, therefore, the four parliamentary groups have tabled an amendment to the third reading. Kolga Školč, and you suggest that the National Assembly decide to deal with it, postpone the third hearing to the next regular meeting. Just those points, buddy school. Colleague School, can you repeat the proposal for a decision, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u266	Mr Vice-President, first of all, I would like to ask you to vote on this point being suspended and that the third is being considered and the decision on the law is being taken at the July session, a dot. Then you will probably have to take the appropriate decision again to postpone the decision on the Rules of Procedure to the July session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u267	In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, therefore, each parliamentary group has the option to define itself until a procedural proposal is made within three minutes. Comrade Pavel Gantar, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u268	On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support this proposal. At the same time, as already announced on behalf of the four parliamentary groups, the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, the Group of the Social Democrats and the Group of the Slovenian National Parties have already tabled an amendment to this Article 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u269	Good. Can we move to a vote on the procedural proposal proposed by colleague Školč to postpone to the next regular meeting? We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We've moved the decision to the next regular session. We therefore agree that the point of conclusion under this meeting is concluded. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As no amendments to the supplementary draft act were tabled in the second reading, no third reading amendments could be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. On the basis of paragraph 5 of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would not have led to any disagreement with the draft act. In doing so, I would like to remind you that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, we will adopt amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. On a procedural proposal, however, a colleague of Tanko applied. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. Given that both acts are bound by the law and the Rules of Procedure in accordance with the agreement reached between the parliamentary groups, I propose that the decision on the act be postponed to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2007-06-22-SDZ4-Redna-29.ana.u271	Well, this procedural proposal was clear, too. I suggest that the National Assembly chooses him. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 60 votes in favour, which means that the procedural proposal has been adopted. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I conclude with this agenda item for this meeting. I also conclude the 29th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Have a nice day ahead!
