ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:00:47]] Registered -363 There are 363 national deputies registered, and the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, and we welcome him and wish him the best. Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Please apply for statements from factions and MPs, if that's what you want, while I announce the parliamentary requests that have come to the secretariat. Is there no objection? Requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies John Tomic to the President of Ukraine regarding the ignoring of the laws of the Hersonian District Authority in the area of land overcrowding. I'll bet you a vote in favour of the request. [[10:02:16]] For 109 Request not supported. Julius Timoshenko and Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the property rights of peasants in the village of Mali Karabchiyev in the Danube region of the Hmělni district affected by the agricultural reform process. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:02:56]] For-123 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to the parliamentary request of the Ukrainian National Deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:29]] For 109 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Tobacco Dmitr, to arrange for the payment of social assistance to disabled persons in connection with child cerebral palsy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:59]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatolia Kozlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation to the population of areas where uranium mining enterprises, nuclear installations, facilities for dealing with radioactive waste are located. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:35]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a violation by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, approved by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, number 35 from 16 January 2003, of a temporary order for the registration of natural persons at the place of residence. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:14]] For 116 Decision taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conflict situation between the central apparatus and the regional offices of the Ukrainian State Innovation Company. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:46]] For 121 Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on counter-attacks in the Montenegrin region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:14]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical financial situation of the holdings of various forms of property in preparation and conduct of spring work. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:47]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the Non-Drigal District Hospital in Sumo. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:18]] For a-117. Decision taken. Jury Crook to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of barges for Ukrainian Danube steaming. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:44]] For 122 Decision taken. Gregory Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the customs handling of humanitarian aid shipments that came to the Skurir Regional Organization of the Red Cross. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:31]] For-90 Decision taken. Valery Assadchev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the persecution of the lecturer of the Kyiv State Academy of Water Transport for political reasons. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:03]] For 114 Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the indexation of compensation for eating children in radioactively polluted areas that are not fed in public schools. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:36]] For-195 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failing to respond to the Special Monitoring Commission's request for privatisation on the mechanism for the sale of shares in cellulose-paper enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:09]] For-161 Decision taken. Jurya Artemenko to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the inability to obtain foreign passports by Ukrainian citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:38]] For a-117. Decision taken. Mikoli Noshchenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko on the allocation of state funds for the implementation of targeted agri-industrial programs in the region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:09]] For 121 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for bringing to justice the Judge of the Pecher district court of Kiev Umnova for gross violation of the judge's oath in the execution of the trial. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:40]] For 124 Decision taken. Paul Sulkovski to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the improvement of the mechanism for the assignment of State social assistance to low-income families with children. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:10]] For-126 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine regarding the legality of the requirements of the Pension Fund in the Sumskie Region for the payment of pension benefits to the employees of the Sumzitlobud Society. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:46]] For the 110. Decision taken. Alexander Baranowski to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the execution of the decision of the Kyiv Economic Court on the inventory and return to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine of State Property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:16]] For-138 Decision taken. Paul Sulkowski to the minister of defense of Ukraine regarding the granting of additional leave to pass examinations to members of the military service who are inadvertently trained in higher and secondary special institutions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:48]] For-103 Decision taken. Valeria Samoplovski and Mikola Sherschuna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prejudice the negative effects of spring floods and hydrological phenomena in the region of Bereznov, Kostopil and Deborah. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:25]] For 109 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Baloga, Mihovich, Matviychuk, Ivancho to the Minister of Interior for unjustified delay in issuing foreign passports to citizens in the Zakartat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:55]] For 178. Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine in connection with the lack of response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the use of the capacity of the Sarnin plant for bridge technology. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:30.]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Igor Yukhnowsky to the Minister of Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine on the high level of import of services in the field of government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:05]] For 101 Decision taken. Dmitry Sandler to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper treatment of law enforcement officials in the area of Ternopil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:36]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Mr. Pesocki to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the theft of property of the company Decorative Cultures and Gardening. [[Lugansk City]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:04]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Michael Dobkin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inadequacy of the actions of senior officials of the Ukrainian State Customs Service. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:33]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the formal treatment of the judiciary with regard to the settlement of the housing issue of the resident of Kirovgrad. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:03]] For 101 Decision taken. Catherine Vasuk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of farmers of the Taviljansk Farm Company of the Dvoričan region of Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:31]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Dmitry Rudzikovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for failing to execute the judgement of the Kyiv Economic Court on the inventory and return to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine of the state property of the Association of Military Hunters and Fishers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:07]] For-129 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Vladimir Bondarenko, Gavriluk, Ivchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a comprehensive inspection of the activities of the Herson City Head. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:37]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Alexia Baburin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights of the working group of the company "Dniprospectal" of Zaporozhye. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:07]] For 204 Decision taken. Jury Solomatin to the Attorney General of Ukraine due to incomplete consideration of the question of falsifying the tender for the sale of the construction site “Citizen Center” in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:37]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the actions of the law enforcement authorities of the Chernigiv region in investigating the death of a citizen of Ivanov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:08]] For-94 Decision taken. Andrija Polita to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Kosovo branch of electricity networks of the Kirovogradoblanergo Association regarding the disconnection of residential buildings from energy supply. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:42]] For a-117. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption under the President of Ukraine, on the invocation of the responsibility of the Prosecutor of the Donetsk Region of Shona for violating the Constitution of Ukraine, improper prosecutorial supervision of the enforcement of the law by the authorities conducting the search and search, knowledge and pretrial investigation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:26]] For-126 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, John Kirilenko, on the situation that took place in the financial and economic activities of the Yellow Calancean Association of the Herson Region and the social protection of members of the collective. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:01]] For 111 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Konovaluk, Safiulin, Homutinnik, and others - to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine, the head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine on gross violations of the standards of procedural legislation of Ukraine under the responsibility of the head of the Krasnolutsk City Court of the Luhansk district of Samoylenkom in the consideration of civil engagements. [[10:23:42]] For-92 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudzkowski, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the implementation of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:12]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies Bespali and others to the head of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets on illegal actions by the authorized State Commission of Securities and Stock Market of Golovk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:42]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Valentina Savitsky, head of the Ukrainian State Road Service for the financing of the repair and reconstruction of roads in Baraniovsk, Novograd-Wolinski, Emilczynski and Olevsk region of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:25:13]] For-97 Decision taken. Leonidas Cherniewsky to the head of the State Customs Service of Ukraine regarding the contraband arrival of the shadowy implementation of small-scale imports. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:42]] For-82 The decision is not taken. Michael Dobkin to the head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for the lack of funds to Ukraine’s State Budget as a result of improper actions by officials of regional customs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:11]] For-76 The decision is not taken. Peter Toloczka to the head of the Ternopil district government regarding the catastrophic condition of the Ivan Forostecki Museum in Pochay. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:39]] For-96 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Executive Director of the Social Insurance Fund for Industrial Accidents and Occupational Diseases for the Unsatisfactory Work of the Fund for the Implementation of the Ukrainian Legislation on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases That Caused Loss of Employment. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:21]] For-153 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Vladimir Bondarenko, Gavriluk, Ivchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a comprehensive inspection of the activities of the Herson City Head. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:50]] For 124 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical financial situation of the holdings of various forms of property in preparation and conduct of spring work. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:19]] For-160. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the factions. John Boki has the word. Please, Yuri Solomatin from the procedure. Ivan Boki, get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u2	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, when my request was made, did not all hear my name properly, and ten of my companions did not vote. I'd like to ask you again to put my request to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u3	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Communist faction, Martinyuk. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I ask that you instruct the staff of the secretariat not to violate with you the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine when they are accepted. The point in this article is that one MP at a time cannot ask more than two questions. Some national MPs set a record of these requests, especially since the questions are not always appropriate. So I would ask them to follow this norm and not ask you more than two questions at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I held a consultation with the Legal Department following Adam Martinyuk’s observation. Indeed, that is the norm in the Rules, but the General Legal Office asserts that this rule is contrary to the Constitution, where the MP can make requests and the deputies can be determined. But we will obey the Rules. Please. Ivan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u6	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine accepted an application for a government bill to pay social compensation to Ukrainian citizens who lost their savings as a result of the liquidation of the financial system of the former USSR. In this statement, we remind ourselves that a government bill has recently come before the Supreme Council, which essentially proposes to reduce the level of compensation for the savings of workers from 131 billion dollars to 28.5 billion dollars, that is, to effectively limit the return of the State to the fifth part of the nation. We think it's insidious that the government proposes to sanctify the law, and we urge the MPs not to enact such a law, because if we adopt such a law, we will essentially sanctify the new theft, the new mugging of people, and thus we ourselves enter into a conspiracies with the oligarchic click that has conceived this new political adventure. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine made a proposal in the past with a bill proposing a real mechanism for the return of Ukrainian citizens' savings. To this end, it was suggested that a non-budgetary account should be created and that all costs arising from the privatization of state-owned enterprises should be accounted for annually as well as 25 percent of the profits of former state-owned banks and 50 percent of the profits of the savings bank for five years. We are redrafting such a bill, and we believe that neither the government nor the President nor Parliament have the right to turn away from solving the problem. We are opposed to linking the legislative and executive authority with the circular message of a thief’s plot against a nation that has entrusted us with its destiny. And in connection with today’s order of things. Today we have a President's speech with a message to Parliament. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine insists that the question be addressed with the answers to the questions of the deputies. The president is afraid to answer our questions. The president fears a living dialogue with the parliament, so we insist that if he has an elementary political order, he should enter into a dialogue with the hall. Therefore, the questions that will be brought to his attention are of no value to the country and there is no point in the fear of a single individual before the messengers of the entire Ukrainian people. I think the President is going to show courage, he's going to show us basic decency, and he's going to answer our questions, or we're not going to participate in this play with Ukrainian Zvetsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u7	Alexander Turchinov, of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, to prepare Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies! On 9 April of this year, the Kyiv District Court of Appeal closed criminal cases against the leader of our bloc and the Party of Fathers - Yulia Timoshenko and stopped its implementation. Thus, the Kyiv Court reaffirmed the order and frank political nature of the cases against Julia Timoshenko, her relatives, colleagues, and opposition companions. Legally, all accusations, provocations, and adventures used by the Attorney General and the authorities to discredit one of the leaders of the united opposition forces have been refuted by the court. For seven years hundreds of investigators and operatives of the Henprocuratorium, tax and special services have been spying and monitoring Timoshenko for no legal reason. The entire state repressive penal system, instead of fighting the crime of which the country is suffering, has been hurled down to the destruction of Yulia Timoshenko and her family. Dozens of external observation cars, constant phone calls, tons of equipment to scan rooms and work offices, millions of spent budget funds, millions of copies of newspapers and postcards that have squandered Timoshenko — this is the price that our citizens paid for the irresponsible adventure of power. Today, it has been legally proven that this was an exclusive attempt to brutalize the criminal regime over the leader of the opposition forces. Over the course of these seven years, the Henprocuratorship, which turned into a banking agitbrigad, held hundreds of press conferences and briefings, following its initiative in the order of order of regional and central media, distributed thousands of dirty materials, the purpose of which was to compromise and discredit Yulia Timoshenko. In order to spread dirt, national television channels did not regret airtime, and newspapers such as "Facts", "Kyivsky News", "2000" published millions of bills and imposed total lies on society about Yulia Timoshenko, and at the same time none of the TV channels, none of the newspapers that they had ever published, had even talked about the fact that their cases had been closed by the court. On the contrary, citizens have witnessed an absurd situation in which the public prosecutor’s statements on the court’s rulings have been circulated on television channels, but no court decisions have been made. Honorable national MPs, today in Ukraine, become the norm when the power structures become the main instrument of the political struggle, when the judges who lack the courage to act in accordance with the law, rather than the regime’s orders, are subjected to tremendous pressure. They're threatened, they're blackmailed. In this situation, it is the Supreme Council of Ukraine that must take steps to protect the rule of law in the state and the independence of the judicial system. Ukraine. The faction of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, initiates the establishment of a parliamentary commission to investigate the illegal actions of judicial structures and the illegal pressure on judges at all levels to protect judges from the abuse of power. I'm done. The protection of citizens' constitutional rights, the preservation of independent judicial authority, the restoration of freedom of expression and independent media should be a priority for Parliament's work. We must and must stop totalitarianism in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u9	From the Agrarian Party, Borzich Alexander Ivanovich. The next one is Borisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u10	Borzih, the Agrarian Party. Statement by the Ukrainian Agrarian Party MP. "The problems of ecologically safe management of agro-industry on agricultural conditions polluted by radio-onuclids as a result of the Chernobyl disaster remains one of the most extensive and long-term. It is estimated that 97 percent of the total human radiation dose is caused by the use of contaminated agricultural products. This was not at random at parliamentary hearings. The measures taken by the government after the Chernobyl disaster, after the rehabilitation of radioactive pollutants, have allowed to significantly reduce its impact on agricultural production and ensure that the public sector is provided with a largely safe product for human consumption. However, it has lost its relevance and activity at present, especially in the personal welfare of citizens. To illustrate, milk produced at 440 locations exceeds the acceptable levels of radioactive pollution. A particularly serious situation with the quality of produce in the Plains, Zitomir and Volin areas. And in this situation, when it comes to health protection, in Ukraine’s State Budget in recent years, funding for agricultural production in radioactive pollution has been declining annually. Thus, in 1990, 22 million budgeted for the target. In the year 99, it was 11, in the year 2000 - 6.4 million, and in 2001 - 2002, it was only 5.1 million. That's right. As for actual funding, only 6 percent of the planned funds were allocated for the targets last year. It is not clear what kind of policy is being pursued by the government, and who will be responsible for the negative effects on the health of people and especially children? The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine considers it necessary: 1) The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine will consider without delay increasing the level of funding for work aimed at producing organic agricultural products and, above all, for children's food; 2. To resolve the issue of the definition of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, which is legally and practically responsible for producing quality food products, as an asset manager of the Chernobyl Fund for the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in agriculture; (3) Develop an economic incentive mechanism for the development of technical crops, introduction of meat farming in regions affected by the Chernobyl AES accident. And the last one this year is to develop and approve a national programme for the rehabilitation of lands in regions affected by the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u11	The word is given by Borisov Victor Borisov of the Company of Ukraine, a faction. Next Verethennikov. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Petrov, Petrov!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u12	The word is given to Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u13	Victor Petrov, Communist Party of Ukraine, Vinnitsk region. Dear fellow MPs, respectable voters! More recently, Vinnicina was praised for her high achievements in the production of sugar beet and sugar. Each year 800 to 900 thousand tons of sugar were produced, accounting for 12 per cent of all Union production and 5 per cent for Ukraine. We were proud that Winničina was called "sugar Donbass", the sveglossachar complex accounted for 30 per cent of the entire economy of the region and was a reliable source of budget replenishment. Over 200,000 tons of sugar were produced by the sugar plant last year. In comparison, so much sugar was produced in the Territory during the 1909-1910 season. Thus, the anti-national reforms of Kravchuk-Kuchma led Ukraine to be at the pre-revolution level of production of one of the most profitable and export-oriented products. What if it is not State treason and betrayal of the national interests of the country? These pseudo-reforms have actually destroyed the industry. If the Vinnicka region had previously grown and produced 6-7 million tons of wreaths, which had been processed at the optimum time of 38 sugar factories, only 24 factories had been built last year and 1 million tons had been produced. A lot of damage has been caused by the seeds, and the mother-in-law zones have been destroyed. As a result of this policy, food shortages, financial collapses, acceptances, bankruptcy, unemployment, the destruction of the social sphere. The sugar factories in the Vinni district, like the mines in Donbassa, are urban enterprises, every factory is a city, the factory stops, the city dies. Most of the wineries went through bankruptcy, some managed to survive after it, and for the most part it became a final destruction. This should be mentioned in Czernicki, Czernominski, Setkovetski, Stepanovsky, Gnievansky, which no longer exists, and the equipment is cut into scrap metal. Today, the labour force is fighting unequally to preserve the Udić Sakhzad Teplik district. The new, so-called “effective owners” have led this factory to bankruptcy, ready to cut equipment and throw people out on the streets, and deprive them of their livelihood. It is amazing how these factories are destroyed by the authorities. Regional and regional state administrations have observed the destruction without involvement, and often have the most active involvement in the destruction. The tax administration only thinks about how to implement the income plan, all of which are immediate, and what happens to the factory, the labour force, the social sphere does not care. The current Chairman of the administration, when he took office in May last year, stated that he considered it a priority to raise the sugar industry. What's the result? As a result, more than 4,000 hectares have not been removed from the fields. The history of Winnichina and, perhaps, the whole of Ukraine had not yet seen that achievement. Over the past 10 years, we have had a broken industry. The 10 Prime Ministers, the 6 heads of the Viennese Regional Public Administration, the many ministers responsible for this sector have changed, and we are still asking the same questions as to who is to blame and what to do. I think it's time for the relevant authorities and officials to answer for them. Please take this statement as a request to Prime Minister Yanukovic for specific measures to remove the svetlosachar industry from the crisis. To the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Piscoun, on the criminalization of persons responsible for the destruction of the sugar industry of specific factories prior to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u14	The word is given to Veretennikov, Victor Alexanderovich, by the faction of industry entrepreneurs and "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u15	Victor Weretennikov, Dnipropetrovsk. Dear colleagues, it has been a month since 229 votes in favour of the Supreme Council sent a request to the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General for unlawful actions by the Dnipropetra District Attorney's Office regarding food and other enterprises in the region. Especially the combination of the Pridniprovsky. The Shuba district attorney responded by an unprecedented increase in pressure on criminal trials and new falsifications. Because the groundlessness and preconceivedness of the first ones were proved by appropriate judicial decisions. The prosecutor's office's goal is to destroy the financial and collapse system of the national manufacturer of the combination of the Transnistrian Consent, by publishing false claims to discredit its production, by rolling the trade mark "Conciliation" out of the Ukrainian market. On March 14th, at the Shuba press conference, he announced the poisoning of 31 children in Dnipropetrovsky. Sanitary doctors don't confirm that. In all acts and samples taken, the absence of a combination of gross violations has been established. The quality of the product is in line with the standards. The custom nature of the "Conclusion" combination, organized by the Public Prosecutor's Office, has been highlighted by virtually all media outlets. The appeal of the 30th-and-a-halfth "Agreements" and the public was heard by the President of Ukraine and the relevant conclusions were drawn. Having realized that he is losing ground under his feet as a mastermind of various questionable actions, such as the recent case of a fictitious murder in Dnipropetrovsk, covered with the Tomato juice of Krupenik, which many media have been tempted to use, he is reaching for insolent extremes. In a television program called "The Power of the Law," run by his press secretary, he's reporting the poisoning and death of a child by the mouth of his attorney in charge of the river. Of course, there was no death. This is not limited to doctors who are legally required to respond to such cases. Forgery exposes a fuss that occurred in the prosecution's office after it became known that a fabricated video tape with a cleverly fabricated prosecutor's claim came to me. On a video, even when children are in a questionable room. The fake is complete. A new cassette scandal broke out. Journalists are calling the D.A., and they're asking why they didn't lower this tape? We didn't destroy it, so it's a lie. What freedom of speech can be discussed if this is the case with journalists. The Súba’s savilla has already resulted in the loss of two million dollars by the van during the test, and the budget has not reached half a million dollars. As for the "Conciliation" employees who were doing the Shuba press conference, the last said that I would destroy them all: both the national MP and his son and the "Agreement". And he's already been able to arrest the innocent man, Svetoslav Sobolnka, on a three-year-old case that was assessed by the prosecutor's office for not being part of the crime. What is it, Ukraine is 37? Or was it the newly discovered Lavrentius Pavlovich Barry of 2003? I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u16	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u17	I call on the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney General and the Supreme Court to assess the brutal actions of the district prosecutor, to ensure the protection of the 30th-century collective producer of Consent, the unjustifiably arrested Sobolnik and my family against the threat and culling of Shuba. Please consider my application to be an official address to the above - mentioned officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u18	A word from the faction of the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine is Tamara Proskuratov. [[united]] Prepare Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian nation is home to the world not only to prominent writers and Democrats who have made a significant contribution to the development of the world’s culture. Also important to the global community are the native baskets of pedagogical science. A special place among them is the figure of Vasil Alexandrovich Sukhomlinski. His ideas, scientific and methodological developments, have gained practical experience of widespread distribution on different continents. As a result, the creative heritage of Vasil Sukhomlinski is extremely multiplanned. In his scientific and artistic work, over 40 books, over 600 articles, 1200 stories, and stories for children. Sukhomlinsky's work was reprinted with enormous circulations, and the main book "The Heart of Child Giver" was printed in thirty languages of the world. Basil Sukhomlinsky, one of the first of the country’s teachers, succeeded in combining the idea of developing a comprehensive personality with the idea of harmonious social development, and his development in terms of the harmonization of the family upbringing of the disciples until now is considered a priceless gift for mankind. The name of the teacher of Sukhomlin and his weighty scientific achievements in gold letters is recorded in the book of mankind’s memory. Sadly, though, in his Fatherland, as well as many other representatives of the national pedagogical elite, we do not give in properly, and at all levels we talk so much about spirituality. It's sad, but the school of the renowned innovator Vasil Sukhomlinski in the village of Pavljaki Kirovograd is going through a bad time. Her material condition is difficult. This alone is a testimony to the indifference of the offspring to an invaluable inheritance, to the memory of the talented sons and daughters of the so rich Ukrainian land. Ukraine's Social Democratic Party MP in the Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the Ukrainian National Deputies, to the Cabinet of Ministers with the proposal to announce 2003 the year Vasil Alexandrovich Sukhomlinski in Ukraine. [[United]] This decision will be a worthy contribution to the celebration of the anniversary of the 80th anniversary of the birth of the great podago. In honor of Vasil Sukhomlinsky's memory, we also need to take all necessary steps to re-establish Pavlish School, to establish a science-scientific teaching centre, to prepare for printing, and then to distribute the Jubilee editions of an outstanding teacher-innovator, to carry out mass public action to promote and disseminate his teaching ideas. A corresponding draft of the ruling has been carried out by the Democratic Social Party of Ukraine and will be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[United]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u20	From the faction of Ukraine, Alexander Stoyan has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u21	Head of the Ukrainian Federation of Trades and Trades. I specifically named my public office. Head of the Ukrainian Federation of Trades and Trades. Because on April 7th, some of you, honourable colleagues, supported the request of the National Deputy Constantine Sitnik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the cessation of violations, I quote: "The cessation of violations by the People's Deputy Alexander Stojan of the oath, the Constitution of Ukraine, which resulted in the incompatibility of his state-of-the-art activities in the Federation of the Professional Union of Ukraine and the MP's mandate." In this regard, I would like to make the following statement. I don't do any of these, except for the MP's job, there's already a second term. My workbook is located in the Personnel Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In Parliament I represent the interests of a public organization just as the leaders of the political parties Peter Simonenko and Julia Timoshenko, who unfortunately supported Sitnik's parliamentary request. I am also legally headed by the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, as is my colleague, National Deputy Mikhailo Volinec, who supported the MP's request. True, he is leading up to two trade unions: Independent mining and the National Confederation of Free Trade Unions in Ukraine And here's an MP, a student named Sitnik is the executive director of the Botanical Institute, and this is a gross violation of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. In this regard, I ask you, Sir Vladimir Mikhailovich, to entrust the Committee on the Rules with the task of determining whether the National MP Sitnik has the right to lead the Botanical Institute. This is the first time. Secondly, taking into account the fact that Sitnik accused me of violating Ukraine's oath and the Constitution and that I have received many appeals on this matter, I would like to ask the Committee's conclusions on the Rules to also publicly announce and commit after that to request a public apology from a colleague of Sitnik. Third. With a similar statement in the media, the national MP, Sitnik, has already spoken in Parliament in the past call. This leads me to believe that even today, my colleague, Sitnik, does not know the basic provisions of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy. So I'm making a proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I'm asking you to put it to the vote to remove the National Deputy Sitnik for one day from participating in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study this law. I think it's never too late to study. And the next. Dear colleagues! On Thursday there is Law 3055 on the exemption from payment for the land of children’s sanatoriums. Vladimir Mikhailovich is moving this law from Thursday to Thursday, so I ask you to speed up the consideration of this law in order to relieve the payment of child health care for the land so that it can be arranged to heal children in the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! Who's there, I can't see? Matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u23	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to ask you not to grant the right, even though they and the national deputies from the rostrum are lying, but to lie openly. A trifle is the only director of the institute who wrote a statement and left this office under the fact that a young change came. And instead of respecting him, Mr. Stoyan is the first person to be honored by the Supreme Council and himself. So I'd like to ask Mr. Stoyan to apologize to Sitnik for the lie he was carrying from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u24	Anatoly Sergiyovich, may I have your attention? I confirm, your words. And I'd like to ask the Regulatory Committee to consider this. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to calm down. Pursuant to article 85, paragraph 8, of the Constitution of Ukraine and the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is responsible for hearing the President of Ukraine's annual messages on Ukraine's internal and external status. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 106, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine refers to the Ukrainian Supreme Council for its internal and external status. Today, the President of Ukraine, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, participates in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There are also government members headed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, representatives of the judiciary, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the CTC, authorized by human rights, the head of the Court of Auditors, the heads of the district councils, the Kiev, Sebastopol City Heads, representatives of the diplomatic corps, the public, the media. I invite you to speak with President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! The procedure is already in place. May I have your attention, fellow officers?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u25	Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, distinguished members of the government of Ukraine, distinguished foreign guests and representatives of the media, dear fellow countrymen! In accordance with article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I have submitted to the Supreme Council the text of an annual letter. This document contains two chapters: "The Policy Reform Strategy" and "The 2002 summary of Ukraine's socio-economic development and the 2003 task."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u27	It'll be quieter. It'll be better. As always, the message contains a unique statistic prepared by the Ukrainian State, which reflects socio-economic processes in the country from 1990 to 2002. I would also like to point out that not only does the message provide information and analysis materials that characterize the present internal and external state of the country, but it also defines specific tasks, mechanisms and tools that are intended to find the proper embodiment of government activities, but it also provides the basis for the activities of central and local executive bodies. In my speech, I will address some of the most fundamental issues related to the current and strategic tasks of our socio-political and socio-economic development. Let me start by saying that this year's message to the President is being delivered to a qualitatively new parliament. This is the very composition of the Supreme Council for the first time, although unfortunately, in the absence of adequate constitutional principles, he attempted to move away from the constructive, nonpolitical principle of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers and formed a coalition government, thereby taking responsibility for its activities as a state of affairs in the state. That's why 2002 became, practically, the beginning of the reform of the political system, a reform that should not only overcome the balance of power, give new tangible impetus to the democratization of society, but also, more importantly, end the transition period, finally pull the state out of the post-Radians governance system. We need to do everything we can to speed up this process, to create the necessary legal field. The current economic situation will move us to do the right thing. Having overcome the deep crisis, coming into the trajectory of steady growth, we have faced the urgent need to make serious qualitative changes in the economic system. It is primarily about the implementation of the basic principle of the market economy, the delimitation of power and property, its deep democratization, overcoming the shadowing of the economy, other deformations that we could not avoid, not just because of the subjective reasons of the previous period. This refers to a whole set of current social policy issues. Increasing the standard of living of our citizens. All these questions are organically related to political reform, and they are determining its implementation. I was guided by these very thoughts when I announced the need for constitutional reform last August, and a month ago I made specific proposals on its content. I'll be honest with you, by taking this step I've been counting on your support. I come from the fact that not only in society, but also in Parliament, there is a constructive atmosphere, a strong conviction that there is an objective need to make fundamental systemic transformations that aim to strengthen power, and then our state, the development of democracy and parliamentaryism. I'm sure you're right. Last week's discussion in this room on the issue of political reform revealed the presence of close positions on the key issues of the proposed project. It is about establishing the basic principles of the parliamentary-presidential republic, giving the constitutional parliament the right to form a coalition government and the obligation of the parliamentary majority to take full responsibility for the government. Allowing the President, under clearly defined conditions, to dissolve parliament when the mechanisms of mutual responsibility are violated. Parliamentary elections are held on a proportionate basis. I knew that the biggest debate would call for a proposal on Parliament's duality. And that's not a new problem. It was actively discussed in the preparation of a valid Constitution. As I returned to this problem, I left three positions. First. The transition to a proportional system of elections and the lack of maturity of political parties, which will be delegated to form not only legislative but also executive powers. There are objective prerequisites to curb the development of political parties themselves, to strengthen their positions. It's primarily not a structured society that can't work. It's different. When a proportional system is put in place, the problem of the principle of weight, regional representation in Parliament, can become equally acute. Third. There are also acute problems about the quality of the legislative process. They're well known. A two-storey parliament is a balancing mechanism in this direction. I fully agree with the need for a balanced approach in determining the mechanism of interaction between the two chambers, ensuring the priority lower chamber, the choice of the upper room in full conformity with the existing world practice of the principles of democracy. I am not ruling out the possibility of moving to a two-story system after the administrative and territorial reform carried out in 2006-2010, which could have been foreseen by the "Transitional Positions" of the Constitution. The mechanisms for direct action of the international referendum on constitutional changes must be more clearly worked out, taking into account world experience and democratic standards. They certainly need modern and effective legislative provisions. But accept that a plebiscite with direct action is the highest form of the peoples of the world. Such a step is capable of making the people's trust in the Basic Law of our State more important. I consider it necessary to look for compromises on these and other issues. But I would like to stress once again that the relevant changes and additions need to be made by the end of 2004, by implementing the formula "new president-elected political system." I understand the complexity of this task. I appeal to all political forces, including the parliamentary opposition, to intensify the political dialogue on these issues. Moreover, I cannot share the skepticism of individual politicians as to the ability of our citizens to be qualified and aware of the urgent problems of state building. That is another conclusion I have made for myself during a recent meeting with a young man in Kharkiv. Young citizens at the highest intellectual and professional level were discussing how we could best manage our sovereign home. Therefore, by exercising faith in the wisdom of our own people, we will first listen to his voice and then continue the work for which he will bless us in the official walls. I am convinced that the dialogue on reform will contribute not only to political stability but also to the formation of a new wider coalition of political forces. Society has the right to count on such a course of events. I was pleased to learn about the memorandum signed yesterday by the leaders of the KPU, SPI, BET and Our Ukraine. Some assessments remain on the authors ’ conscience. I want to mark two of the most important things, I think. Despite all the contradictions, the constructive approach to the proposed changes was pleasantly impressed, since the memo in the vast majority supported the President’s proposals. The other one. I consider such a constructive approach to be one of the results of a broad discussion that is taking place today in Ukraine. In this regard, I would like to make a proposal to hold a round table on political reform with the participation of parliamentary parties, the government and the President. We need to make full use of all possible policy tools that can ensure that the goal is achieved. This is our shared duty to society. The credibility of the reform project would have been greatly enhanced if, after careful drafting, the relevant bill had been carried out with expertise in influential international organisations, namely, the Venice PARE Commission, the relevant mechanisms for inter-parliamentary cooperation between Ukraine and the countries of Europe. First, Germany, France, and Poland. Such steps must be taken in the strictest of terms. Now let me take a brief look at the most relevant, in my view, issues of economic policy. Three years in a row, we have a steady high rate of economic growth. During the years 2000-2002, gross domestic product increased by 20.9 percent, on an average of 7 percent. This is essentially the highest rate of growth on the European continent. [[Noise Nodes]] Three months ago. The three months of this year confirm that the process is well - founded. It's also important to note that the leading sectors of growth are the industries that produce final consumption, and, above all, the machine building is the heart of our economy. There is a marked increase in the investment process, an increase in capital investment of almost 40 percent. In the last three years, real wages have increased by 39.7 percent. Despite the complex external economic environment, there is a tendency to increase Ukrainian exports. In the last three years, it has increased by 42 percent, and during this time, gold reserves have increased significantly, and Ukraine’s government debt has decreased. The dependable stability of the national monetary unit plays a special role. At the same time, we made a dangerous mistake in order to reduce our attention to the present shortcomings. Ukraine needs much more to do to finally deal with the effects of the economic crisis. In particular, the question of the social sphere of the population’s standard of living. You can't close your eyes to the fact that economic growth over the last three years has been done mainly on an extensive basis, on a technological basis that was mainly formed in previous years. The fact that in the years of economic growth, the number of enterprises making innovations has not only increased but has declined is supported by this conclusion. I stress these issues precisely so as to emphasize once again the objective need for a fundamental adjustment in economic policy. It has to be focused on the main application of structural innovation mechanisms to the economy. Unfortunately, we have virtually no such mechanisms. A positive dynamic in the economy will be preserved if the government quickly adjusts to the very principles of economic policy, particularly in innovation and investment. We need to understand that the tools of this policy, which worked under crisis conditions, are no longer suitable for innovative development. The old system and the social sphere remained a relapse. In the country, it is practically just a legal basis for domestic social policy. We are mostly talking about pension, medical, educational reform, and we are mostly talking about, and we are practically doing little to upgrade areas that have a direct way out of people. I can't help but overlook the subject of Tinnitus, which has already become an illustration in my tongue. And it's not just the fight against legalization, the laundering of dirty money, but in this context, I have repeatedly stressed that we should thank the international community, particularly FatF, for the harsh attitude towards Ukraine. Which, unfortunately, has helped the government and the Supreme Council to significantly improve the legislative base and prevent the imposition of destructive sanctions for the economy. Speaking of tinnitus, I would have turned the conversation into a broader plane -- tinnitus as a way of life. This total disease is no longer the economic organ of our society, the shadowy political and social market, the shadow lobbyism. Not everything is good in science, education, and medicine. The reason is that aside from the legacy of double morality, the pseudo-market tax press practically pushes the entrepreneur into the shadows. How many more times in the annual letter do we have to repeat the plea to Parliament and the government to get the state out of the state of tax absurdity? Now, some questions about foreign policy. In line with the tasks defined in the European Choice message last year, Ukraine's European integration policy has substantially intensified. But we need to realize that Ukraine will join the European Union as Europe enters Ukraine, European standards of political culture, social and labour relations, the very way of thinking and life. We will be in Europe when the philosophical Eurostandart becomes the conviction and everyday practice of our citizens who want to join a progressive and prosperous civilization. 2002 will be the year of the declaration of Ukraine’s intention to join NATO. I would like to stress that this purpose will be reinforced by the strengthening of meaningful organizational and political activity in this direction. Today, we have every reason to make the introduction of a colleague of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization no later than in 2004. A step is also being considered as one of the decisive prerequisites for creating a free trade zone between our country and the European Union. At the same time, I would like to warn officials not to allow our interests to be undermined if we agree to join this organization. In general, Euro-integration activities should be aimed at preventing another Berlin wall from emerging between Europe and its neighbours, which will transform our nation into a zone between an integrated Europe and an integrated Eurasian world. On the other hand, headship in the SND creates opportunities to increase the influence of Ukraine on the formation of the WTO free trade area in post-Radians, which will contribute to the intensification of economic relations, the exchange of capital and goods, services, and labour. I stress the need to give special attention to relations with the Russian Federation. We can't help but worry about the decline in trade relations with the Russian Federation last year. Not a better situation with other SND countries. This flaw needs to be addressed. The signing of presidential statements by the republics of Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Ukraine for the promotion of integration processes and the formation of a single economic space not only contravenes but complements our desire for natural rapprochement with Europe. What is particularly important to us is the development of a constructive dialogue with the United States of America aimed at establishing the principles of strategic partnership, removing barriers to bilateral cooperation, because one common approach to combating the threat of world terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction makes us reliable partners and permanent allies. Deeply convinced that Ukrainian diplomacy should work more in order to further deepen our relations with Poland, the Baltic countries, Central and Eastern Europe, China, Canada, Turkey and other countries of the Middle East and Latin America. We have many common interests, and this is an objective basis for economic interaction and mutual understanding. And the most painful. We are all well aware that the world has changed radically since the events of September 11. Emphasis and approaches to international security have changed. In general, Ukraine has always stood up and advocated a peaceful solution to any dispute. The Iraqi crisis cannot leave us indifferent; we want to resolve the military conflict as soon as possible on the basis of the interests of international security. I believe that Ukraine has found a worthy answer to this challenging challenge. In carrying out their duties, the Ukrainian military among the first were willing to come to the aid of a peaceful settlement in the event of the use of weapons of mass destruction. It was our common decision, in this sign of our civilization, our commitment to global values, although it was a very and very difficult step for each of us. Not only is it difficult to be from the edge of international politics, but it is in one of its epicenters. In rephrasing a well - known policy, we need to understand that living in a globalized world was impossible and free from it. For its part, the country is ready to take the most active part in Iraq’s postwar development. And to conclude, the last parliamentary elections have once again brought public attention to the problem of the unity of our country. This is due to known differences in electoral orientations in regions. Similar differences do not occur for the first time, but they do have objective historical but, above all, temporary prerequisites, and these prerequisites need to be overcome. Life itself, the practice of social and political transformations suggests the need for a more determined and, above all, more meaningful movement forward in the mainstream of government work, the formation of a modern Ukrainian political nation. Solidarity, consolidation, unity in the country -- this is the concentrated realization of the most current historical task facing Ukraine in the second decade of its sovereign existence. The attention of the political elite, the authorities, should be increasingly focused on the problem. We're not going to get out of the nets of small value when social energy is being drained all the time in permanent strife and total abuse. Politicians who specialize in this kind of social activity alone need to understand that. Democratic pluralism, which we consistently observe, can produce positive results only if it rises to the height of national consensus. We can continue to walk in the worlds and unnumbered complaints against one another. But we will never get what we hope for, for in the world it is only those nations that respect themselves. I want this far more than a simple time for our nation to call on all political forces to abide by this principle. In less than two years, there will be another presidential election in Ukraine. For our part, we will do everything we can to ensure that the election of the new Head of State takes place in a civilized, democratic manner, in full conformity with valid legislation. However, it is disturbing that this period should not pass away in the new, tough political battalions. We must not stop in our development, in our reform policies, in our profound social transformations. I hope and I believe that we will all find the power and will to ensure the real consolidation of all branches of government and on this basis take new tangible steps in the process of approving Ukraine as a modern-day highly developed social and democratic state. Having gone through an extremely difficult course of economic, social, and political transformation, we have become richer in experience, which must be the basis for further progress, and we must do our utmost to make such progress weightier. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u28	We thank the President of Ukraine for his statement. A break of 30 minutes is announced. In 11 hours, 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u29	Let's get back to work. The draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economic Activities on Export-Import Licenses is under consideration. Reported by the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Stecenko Volodymyr Aleksijovich. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Economics is proposed to be reprinted in article 16 of the Act. I will briefly pause on the content of the basic provisions of the draft new edition of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activities. The project introduces the concept of automatic and non-automatic licensing procedures, defines the order, the terms and conditions for processing applications and the conditions for issuing licences. The draft law specifies the applicable rules of article 16 of the law on the listing of the conditions for the implementation of the licensing regime, the decision to establish the licensing period for the official publication of information on the introduction of the licensing regime. It is determined that automatic licensing is introduced in cases where there are no quantitative or other restrictions, i.e. it is carried out in the mode of monitoring export-import operations and considering applications in the order in which they are received. In doing so, the deadline for considering external economic activities is reduced to 10 days. Non-automatic licensing regulates the procedure for processing applications and issuing licences when imposing quantitative restrictions on imports, exports of certain goods and provides for licensing under quantitative restrictions. The draft law specifies the conditions for licensing external economic operations according to international standards. Such conditions include the need to ensure the protection of life, human health, the environment, national wealth, artistic, historical or archaeological value, the protection of intellectual property rights, public security requirements, the application of measures to protect domestic goods, external economic operations with precious metals, and the enforcement of international agreements. The draft of the new article states that the decision to apply the licensing of external economic operations is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration. In the case of anti-dumping, countervailing or special measures to protect a domestic producer, the decision to establish a licensing regime is taken by the Inter-Agency Commission on International Trade in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. The adoption of the bill will help create a transparent system for licensing external economic operations. The proposed project is in line with international trade practice on the procedure for licensing external transactions. Dear National Deputies! Please support the adoption of the law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Will there be questions? Yes. Please sign up. Light up, please. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Next Slatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u32	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Volodymyr Alexiyovich, you said that Bill 2417 was intended to implement the Foreign Economics Act in accordance with the requirements of the World Trade Organization. That's my question. Please tell me, are the requirements of this bill being harmonized with the law that we have already passed in this room, the law that regulates the work of the State Export Control Service? I mean, I mean, is there going to be a system where the issue of a license automatically means the issue and the consent to export or import, because today's system that's operating in our country not only slows down but prevents export-oriented industries from doing their production.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. The statutory issue of export-importation of special-purpose products is not regulated by this article, respectively, which was adopted by law. There is a reference to Article 20 of the Law on External Economic Activities, which refers to the law that controls the export and import of special purpose goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u34	Please, Sergey Slubenko, the next one is Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u35	I ask you to convey to the people's deputy Krutz, the faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u36	Krutz's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u37	Mikola Krutz city of Ivano-Frankivsk, faction of "Our Ukraine". Dear reporter! The proposal in article 16 on external economic activity is that export licences are introduced in Ukraine if the protection of a domestic producer is necessary. It's kind of strange that exports are going to protect a domestic producer. And in principle this approach could be supported, but these formulations are somewhat abstract. So a few questions arise. First. What are some of the measures taken to protect a domestic producer in this bill? The other one. How, and who will determine the need to take the steps indicated? Will this somehow affect or affect the external markets of exporters?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u38	Thank you for asking. The protection of a national producer from mass or dumped imports is recognized by legislation on atimping, special and subsidized measures. Under this law, an international trade commission determines whether or not a national producer is harmed. The relevant research is done by the Ministry of Economics with the participation of all interested parties from both sides of the state, so they can speak by interested parties and producers, exporters, importers. The draft law amends article 16, which also refers to the anti-dumping code as so - called, and indicates that measures from mass and dumped imports will be carried out. There are cases where it is possible to protect a national exporting producer, such as when there is a shortage of material resources in Ukraine, possible measures and they are also compatible with international societies. So, for example, I can give you this example, for example, maybe ecology is causing something, environmental damage, and so the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to introduce a small term of protection against deforestation, etc.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u39	Please, Vladimir Cherniak. Give a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u40	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Your Honor, I have two questions. First. Is it clearly stated in the bill, in your opinion, that the licensing limit is automatic and non-automatic. The decision on these issues is taken by the Cabinet of Ministers for the Ministry of Economics, which will be the mechanism for making this decision. And the second question. Regarding the protection of the domestic manufacturer. The bill deals with the protection of a domestic producer, particularly in the process of using anti-dumping measures. But are the mechanisms for protecting a domestic producer from the abuse of officials in the process of external economic activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u41	First part of your question, Vladimir Kostinović. The prescribed law is written in such a way that it clearly regulates the actions of an official. So the official can't turn left or right. Here is the mechanism that our domestic exporter or the manufacturer should provide. And the terms are also given in this law, and the reasons that might be the basis for the refusal. So it's clearly regulated here. As far as protecting our manufacturer from mass imports or mass or dumped imports is concerned, this is separate legislation. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u42	Time's up, please sit down. The word for the report is given to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of the Skomarovski Volodymyr Vladimirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The point of change is in the following, automatic licensing -- that means when there are no quotas for certain types of goods. If quotas are introduced for certain types of goods, such as grains for export, then no automatic licensing is introduced. That's the difference. But the procedure itself requires consistency with other legislative acts. Therefore, the Economic Policy Committee proposes to support it as a basis only in the first reading and, together with the National Deputies, to work on the second reading. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus also proposes to adopt the bill only in the first reading and to refine it in order to harmonize all normative acts with other legislative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u44	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Vitaly Yakovich. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u45	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to ask you this question: can't you see that this law will somehow get Parliament expelled from the sphere of influence on such an important branch of state activity as exports today? If we read it very carefully, there is some way in which Parliament is excluded from this process. Is this not disturbing to you as a national deputy of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u46	I fully support you, so I suggest you work on it seriously. Today, it provides significant obstacles to exporters, including importers, that is to say, this law needs to be developed, greatly simplifying the licensing process itself, because our manufacturer will suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u47	Please, Yuri Carmazin. Next Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter, I would like to ask if, if the draft of article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activities is adopted, there will be a broader interpretation than even the GAT agreement on the procedure for licensing imports requires? So whether we put our citizens and businesses in worse conditions than they are now. I'd like you to express what the opinion on the committee on the negative aspects of the adoption of this law is, in general, that when we adopt the law, we say it's good for Ukraine, which is good for the World Trade Organization, let's say. Can you do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u49	Yuri Anatoliyovich, the committee has this principle: we don't know when we're going to join the World Trade Organization exactly, so the law has to define a clear term. Today it is determined just two months after accepting it. That's not right. Secondly, in the way it is, it's really going to create obstacles for our manufacturer. It should therefore be further worked out, but in the first reading, it can be accepted and thoroughly worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u50	Please, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u51	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I didn't like you, Vadim Vadimovich. I had a question for a representative from the Ministry. Let us take a moment to consider the situation in Ukraine today with grain. And for today, there's still a 4 million tons request for grain exports while we know that prices have already dropped by 20-30 percent in Ukraine. So I have a question, like other colleagues, does it protect existing laws or additions to the laws of our people, Ukrainians? Can this law protect Ukrainians or not? Whether bread will be removed, some firms and Ukraine’s trade will bring wheat from Russia. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u52	Thank you. That's a very interesting question. He guides, this law, to protect our manufacturer and our people in the event that permits and licences are given by proper officials. And if it's decided on a level like this, it's clear that no law can do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u53	Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u54	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky district, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleague, we are working with you and we are leading a temporary investigation commission to combat smuggling abroad. Do you know that? We have already left several times, and we work very hard. So I have a question. You know, we already have these facts. What it means is, in terms, in terms where automatic licensing is understandable. And where there's no automatic licensing, I'm worried about the terms that are on display. You can imagine, let's say you're late for a day or two of these permits, what's going to happen at this point on the border, how much black goods, black money, and all that? Shouldn't we still have those terms there, in one place 60 days, in another, 35 days, a little bit longer to cover this possible hole? Because it's good that we're moving to European standards, and it's good that this quota is going to be automatic, but on the other hand, there's still this one, this Achilles fifth. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u55	Thank you. That's a very interesting question. The point is that if we go to European standards, we have to take into account that they are implementing the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. And unfortunately, we don't have them at the customs office. That's why there's a huge flow of smuggling. That's one thing. So we have to make these terms to make it as difficult as possible to preserve this situation. And we can't completely protect it. You know what the situation is today on the border.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u56	Leonid Vernigore, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u57	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, this is where everyone asks Vernigore, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Everyone's asking about goods, exports, I'm about intellectual property. So let's say that we do the works of our authors, and they always say on the radio, they do the works of Ukrainian authors. The same is being done abroad. There's, like, an executive group abroad doing things. Who's guarding them, who gives them licenses, how is it, the export of our property, they use it there? We don't have the state, we don't have the authors. So when you say it with a machine, it's all done, which means we automatically export, automatically donate it, automatically no one protects anything, and automatically all this goes away from our state, right? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u58	Thank you. So these changes are based on the fact that if there are no quotas or certain restrictions on a certain type of goods, both prior to import and export, then the import, i.e. the licensing, is done automatically. We don't have, for example, any import of cars, no quotas, so it's automatically licensed by any company, and it's imported by a private person. That's what we're talking about. And in terms of intellectual property, I think we need to make provision here in the law, that this is necessarily licensed and all. So this is what we're going to do with you after we adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given by Volodymyr Puzakov, the next by Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u60	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Discussions and adoptions of the External Economics Act may also enable a domestic producer to use an aluminum profile to produce various construction products, such as windows, doors, windmills, and so on. On this point, I am already stressing the importance of this issue. On my first request to the former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kinakh, I have unfortunately received an answer, not from Anatoly Kirilovich, but from the signing of the first deputy head of the Kirovograd district administration, Lavrenka, who does not solve this issue at the state level. But his recommendations say that in the construction of housing and socio-cultural objects, it is possible to use an aluminum profile. But for the time being, in the area of capital investments, it is not possible to count on large orders. Thus, it is unrealistic to support a domestic producer within one area, and this must be decided at a legislative level within the State. This is because I do not agree with the fact that it is simply unrealistic to support such a manufacturer within one area. Not really, because in general, by supporting the International Monetary Fund, we work, unfortunately, for the economy of foreign firms. As we know, in Ukraine, and this is what we've heard today in a report by the President of Ukraine, there's an unsatisfying economic situation, but only in our area is more than 50 companies working to implement aluminum profiles of foreign production, and prices for plastic products and aluminum in 3-5 are higher than the same products in Ukraine. So what's the point of this question, we're going to be making foreign production when in Ukraine, in particular, in Bravara, Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk and other cities, there's been a competitive production of products of the Euro-Euronic type from aluminum alloys? As well as scientists from the Kyrovograd State Technical University, the Dnipropetrov National Steel Academy, the Kiev State Technical University of Construction and Architecture and a number of other leading scientific institutions in our country have developed criteria for determining the optimum characteristics of products from a pressed aluminum profile. So, dear colleagues, let's think about the priority development and the country producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u61	The word is given to Karmazin, next to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Honorable Multitude Ukrainian People! You're already being prepared for GAT, Sato. Just now, the president of this rostrum said that he was already putting a challenge on him in 2004. And I'd like us to stop what's going on in the state. After the census, our nation fell to half a million citizens, what are we going to turn into? So any thoughtless decision that is proposed here in this law is totally rejected. What do I mean? The bill provides that decisions on the application of the licensing regime, including quotas, shall be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the application of the Mineconomy. Why trim the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? Just do the President's will? Think about it. Today this is provided in article 16 of the Act, which reads: "The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to establish a licensing and quota regime for imports." This is due to the fact that, in accordance with article 9 of the Law on External Economic Activities, the Supreme Council’s jurisdiction is subject to the approval of lists of exports and imports that are licensed or prohibited under articles 16 and 17 of the Act. So what I'm asking is that the Yanukovich government needs no more powers from the Supreme Council? May I give you the badge, Mr. Secretary of State, undersecretaries and Mr. Yanukovich? You have a little conscience when you offer such things. We're doing the people's job here, and we're counting on someone not to read the draft of what you're giving. You can't do that. So I also refer to the committee, see what happens next, the editorial in article 16. If there is not only licensing but also quota now, the new one, even the name, is written only for licensing, although some refer to quota issues. But we have to realize that the more exports are going to be in the state, the better for our state, the more we are going to export. I would like to have us, even if we were to adopt this law, although this law today does not give us anything to record that it has entered into force only since Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization, because we are going to put everything we don't need before that, and that's not possible. And what's written "from the moment of publication" is not appropriate for this law, to limit itself to Ukraine only if it is restricted by other states, it will be in the interests of the protection of every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u63	Andrew Schlell, next one is Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this bill is only of interest to the Supreme Council, because in the Supreme Council, the deputies of the Supreme Council take away the powers given to it. So of course, it's only of us here, although not to the extent possible, of course, because activity is insignificant, because the project is very important. The common thing is that the self - restraints Ukraine can impose in connection with the introduction of those European positions that are anchored after its entry into WTO and GAT is one thing. But it's a completely different thing to do in advance. You know, it reminds me here that you don't have to go to hell in front of your father. Until we have entered the WTO, we need not rush to deprive ourselves of the opportunities we have. That's the first one. The other one. I would really like to point out that there are a lot of difficult things in the bill. And I would suggest that this bill at the very best be sent for re-reading. Otherwise, it could simply be rejected as one that is not yet in time. In particular, I would like to point out that paragraph 1 of the first active article of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity sets out cases of self-implementation by the Ukrainian authorities of the licensing regime. So the licensing regime will be determined by those who have to control and those who do. So both control and implementation are happening at the same time. So I'd like you all to realize, first of all, that in this situation, people's deputies are not just trying to put a cat in a bag, but they're trying to put a cat in a bag that's going to spread right across our apartment. So I would like each of you consciously to press the pros or cons button next Thursday. The most he's counting on from the Supreme Council is the re-reading of the first reading. I'll explain why. There is a proposal to change the regulation on registration of licensing decisions in the State Register of Export and Import Transactions, which is not acceptable. There is also a need for clarification of the proposed standard according to which the examination of licence applications can be carried out in the order of their arrival, as determined by the date of registration, or at the same time after the end of the announced period of acceptance. We now want to impose restrictions that no one even offers or wants to impose on us. We want to be more righteous than the rest of the world’s righteous. We want to look better where we need to look. We need to make more, we need to work better, we need to get out of the crisis. We need to change power, we need to finally realize that any accession to international organizations is possible only if they want to see us there. And destroying legislation for that is simply a criminal offense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u65	Please, Michael Pavlovsky. Next Nigger and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u66	Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, "The Fatherland", Hmelničina. Dear Chief, Honourable Vladimir Alexiyovich Stecenko, I am addressing you, and you have a Ukrainian name, so be a Ukrainian to the end! Defend the interests of the State! Because today this commission, which is in charge of joining the WTO, is constantly betraying the interests of our state. So they signed the sacramental agreements of countries that have not signed these agreements for ten years in the WTO, and we've already implemented all of the 19th of the 16th. Now who's pulling, who's proposing changes to the law? Nobody. Government initiative. Why, in short, I'm the last to speak. Yeah, that's right. Export conditions are getting complicated, import conditions are getting easier. So who are we working for? Why is it for the protection of a domestic manufacturer when he is strangled with imported goods? The Supreme Council is completely moving away. What's more, there were parliamentary hearings yesterday from the Chernobyl disaster, and I wasn't allowed to speak, so what I'm saying is that these WTO agreements signed by the government will be the last strike after that 3.5 million. Black people, because there's going to be an extra 4 million. unemployed, if we join the WTO with those agreements signed by the government. Therefore, honorable ones, by no means can this law be adopted in the first reading, for then, God forbid, we shall not make amends. The maximum we can accept is once again, so we can fix it, and in general, we don't need these changes. And in the end, I want to draw attention to the subtlety of Mineconomy in relation to the people and to my producer and national MPs. In this room, we passed the law on export-import laser compact discs. The government pushed foreign law, we didn't accept it. At the previous session, 140 votes to none. How beautifully the Mineconomy emerges from the situation: All that fails is written into this law. Why, when there's a law that we passed, export-import laser compact discs. And now they're here, you see, licensing raw materials, materials. By the way, the licensing of raw materials, materials, everything on the technology chain, is only in nuclear materials and nuclear production. Compared, you see, laser compact disc materials to nuclear materials! On what basis? So I want to point out that I'm surprised by this treachery all the time, and I can't get a word out of my mouth, the position of the Mineconomy to my production, to my people. Well, here I am to you, as a young man, saying, "Take sides with your people, become Ukrainian, and everything will be fine." Therefore, Your Honor, we need to regain the authority of the Supreme Council, and we need to impose restrictions on debts that are excluded. We used to have quotas in place when external debt is not raised, and now it's all off. Come on, destroy the state like there's nothing! And that's why Karmazin's position is very rational, if we even accept anything, just Ukraine's entry into WTO. In addition, there is no need to take on additional responsibilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u67	The word is given to Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Follow the Rules. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. There are no alternatives to the WTO entry, but there are alternative conditions for entering the WTO, and the task of the government, and the task of the parliament is that Ukraine enters the WTO, it cannot be isolated, because over 90 percent of the world's trade and most of the countries of the world are there. But Ukraine and the government and parliament must stand up for conditions that are favourable to Ukraine. There are, of course, appropriate rules of the game that we cannot violate. But within these rules, they say you can go beyond that and you can agree on certain agreements. With regard to this law, it is directly linked to Ukraine’s entry into WTO. I understand that the government is passing it because the WTO is pushing us to pass such a law. But once again, what is preferred by the WTO should be advantageous to Ukraine. If it is not convenient for Ukraine, why do we need a WTO? Although on the other hand, of course, we must look to our future and join Satan. That is, there is such a dilemma. Now with regard to this law. The law refers to changes in the licensing regime, which refers to the 16th article of the Law on External Economic Activity. It is suggested that the changes be made. In particular, this applies to automatic licensing, which is included when there are no quotas and when it comes to non-automatic licensing, it is within the limits of quantity. I think that's basically justified in some way, but you have to clearly write out the mechanisms to limit automatic licensing from non-automatic and write out clearly the mechanisms for non-automatic licensing. This raises a question that all my colleagues spoke about, and what did I ask the reporter: How will we protect a domestic producer? I think, really, there's a reason to say that, to some extent, with the adoption of this law, the export conditions of the Ukrainian producer are getting worse and the import conditions are improving. And it's important for us to improve the export conditions, because Ukraine's economy is open and a lot of GDP is going to export and so we need to think about it so that we don't make the export conditions worse. We need to close the smuggling holes, write down the mechanisms for law enforcement and appropriate sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u69	Please, Vitali Jakovitch Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u70	Dear colleagues. I'm not surprised at the position of the Ministry of Economics, it certainly wants to defend its capabilities and it's still being said, one way or another, to do what it does to import-exports, but somehow I'm surprised at the position of our colleague, the relevant committee of profile, when he, somehow, came to the treatment of what he was doing, or didn't notice on purpose what he was doing there. We are well aware of what this is about, and colleagues have spoken about it from the rostrum today. The bill proposes to exclude Parliament from the sphere of influence on such an important branch of State activity as exports. Yes, according to the law in force, the Supreme Council is making decisions on the application of the licensing and quota regime. In the new edition, such a decision is taken only by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of the Ministry of Economics and for the European integration of Ukraine, which is agreed in accordance with the established order with other interested central executive bodies. This distortion of powers in favour of the executive branch cannot be allowed in a democratic system that is called the direction of opponents. That's the first one. And the second. What do you mean, “to harmonise Ukrainian legislation according to the conditions of the WTO in the area of licensing for external economic activity?” Lawmakers saw the need to make changes to the one - name article of the law in force. But the point is, as a result of the proposed changes in article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on External Economic Activity, it would be contrary to articles 1, 9 and 29 of the Act, which is illogical in the same law. And you can see what's going on, as they say, on purpose. And yet, what my colleagues in this rostrum didn't say today, when I discussed the bill, I looked at it, probably the bill meant to rename the Ministry of Economics to the Ministry of Economics and European Integration. On this point, I would like to point out that only three years ago, in 2000, the Ukrainian Foreign Economics Act had already changed for these very reasons. Then the words "Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations and Trade" were replaced by "Ministry of Economics." So why don't you write: the central authority of the executive branch on matters of external economic activity, so that it doesn't change all the laws in a row every time a ministry wants to be renamed. Therefore, in view of the foregoing, I propose that we decide to send a bill under which to do the work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u71	The question is closed, the vote will take place on Thursday. A draft Law on Environmental Auditing is proposed for consideration. Report to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Shevchuk Vasil Jakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u72	Dear Gennady Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies. Work on the legislative regulation of eco-audit activities began in 1997, followed by the Supreme Council, approving the national privatization programme. Later, the concept of improving the ecological state of mining areas in Ukraine, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, identified more pragmatic steps. And finally, this bill is being considered and it's extremely necessary and positive and relevant. I want to say that environmental audit discipline has long been read in higher education institutions. And what's more, it's already done -- it's in line with European and world standards. I want to report, very briefly, not in the letter, but in fact in the law, the honourable national MPs. Environmental audit is not a test in the classical sense of the word, it's a confession of an enterprise to an environmental audience that will then make recommendations. During the period of economic and environmental reform, our state has introduced a fee for using natural resources. That's the first one. The price for pollution of the environment has been introduced. And the third. Incentives have been introduced to modernize environmental production and investment. Thus, businesses today are objectively interested in better use of natural resources and the environment. Financially, because of economic responsibility, it's all in sum, and it's the interest and all of our society. I'm going to give a very short example. For many years, in the Ternopil region of Borsztow, the Spirit Plant has been polluting the environment by throwing grain bards into water objects and causing great negative damage. We're planning an environmental audit, we've already started, we've already developed a modernization program. An absolutely small loan, a million, and by evaporating the grain bard, we get high-food feeds for animal farming and do not pollute the environment. Accumulated for a maximum of one and a half years. We're still planning, we have about 55 liquor factories in Ukraine, similar audits and modernization and learning programs to do in all of these factories. So this is what I want to illustrate, as an example of environmental auditing, the development of the modernization programme can be addressed simultaneously by both environmental and economic enterprises, problems and this, both in the interests of direct enterprises and society as a whole. We're practically planning to complete an eco-economic reform that we've been implementing for more than 10 years. We have three laws left to adopt to have a final eco-economic system. This is the Environmental Audit Act, which will provide environmental insurance so that not all expenses are incurred by the State, but by insurance companies, and the National Environmental Fund Act. Today, we are considering the first of these three final laws to complete our environmental and economic reform and to form a set system for the use and protection of the environment. Today, there are two draft laws: one Presidential on page 10 and the other National MPs on page 28. I would ask you, honourable national MPs, to adopt in the first reading the draft law proposed by the President of Ukraine and for the second reading we will use, together with the people's deputies, all the better positions contained in the bill of MPs to ensure that we have an entirely adequate harmonised Law on Environmental Audit. He needs it today, he's on time, he's waiting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u73	Please sign up for the questions. Vladimir Yeshchenko, next Kalinchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u74	Another faction of Communists, please pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u75	Solomon's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u76	It's all included. Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. I would like you to give a brief explanation of how the Environmental Audit Act differs from the existing Environmental Expertise Act? Because my colleagues from different factions have approached me and asked if this is a lecture of the same thing that we already have in the Law on Environmental Experty. I personally understand the answer to that question. But I would like to ask you to explain it to many of our colleagues who cannot understand it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u77	I thank you, Yuri Petrovich, for asking you a simple and understandable answer to this question, and I'll say that basically the Environmental Expertise Act refers to activities that are designed and implemented, and environmental audits apply to activities that are already being carried out directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u78	Please, Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, the next Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u79	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Vasil Yakovic, I agree that the adoption of the proposed bill will lead to a significant increase in the effectiveness of all legislation in the field of environmental protection and environmental security in the country. At the same time, I have two questions. First: the article 13 of the project states that an environmental auditor may be a person who has higher education, special training, experience in the field of environmental protection or the adjacent spheres not less than four years in a row. It's not clear from the text. What special training is needed and what spheres are meant by adjacent. That's the first question. And the second. There are no audit periods specified in the project either. The project does not determine whether audits are performed only once or periodically. If periodically, how many years later? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u80	I thank you for asking. First, I want to answer the following. Special training -- it's just that a person has to be professional, educated and experienced. And have an internship, understand these things. I want to say that in foreign countries it's extremely difficult to get an environmental audience certificate. We have today in Ukraine about 30-40 only people who have been trained according to world standards and have international certificates. We're not betraying our nationals yet. And the periodicity is very simple. It's for the company's orders. If he needs it again, please order and conduct. And there is no such obligation. Or if this is the case when government decisions are made, when the form of property changes, when the enterprise is transferred to a concession, that is, depending on the situation, the periodicity is resolved. It's not a forced action, it's not a struggle, it's to help those who own it use resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u81	Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u82	Dear Vassil Yakovic, well, at the start stage, you may be right that this will be determined by the customer that he needs to carry out such an expertise, but then this will necessarily go to a mandatory audit for individual operators. And I have a question for you. We already have experience when a state function, and that's a state function -- environmental auditing, legal persons. This, in particular we have today's Bureau of Technical Inventory, we have technology stations at the DAI. A government function, but it's done by legal persons who work for profit. So I have a question, let me put it this way: what is the extra cost of the budget to run this law, because I want the state institutions to do this. And the second, as you can see in your chapter, is a legal person who has one auditor and recorded his entrepreneurial activities as an auditor. Is that not enough for a single legal person to deal with such an important state of affairs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u83	Thank you for asking. As far as budget expenditure is concerned, they are not foreseen. On the contrary, and the experience of doing so, we already have experience in conducting environmental audits at different enterprises, two-, five-, or ten-fold effects on the investment costs. I want the audit to be conducted in such a way that it's needed, that's help. As for one person on. One entrepreneur, one lawyer per legal person alone, I think that's probably not enough, and it's just going to have to be clearly written out in order to give the environmental certificate to the audience. It's very difficult. I am. We have experience. It has to be a technologist, it has to be a designer, it has to be an economist, it has to be a complex audit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u84	All right, time's up. Sit down, please. The first deputy chairman of the committee on environmental policy, environmental management, and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster to Hare John Alexanderovich is given the floor for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear National Deputies, Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine." The committee considered these two bills: one submitted by the President of Ukraine and the other submitted by a group of national deputies. The committee proposes to adopt a bill, which has been tabled by the President of Ukraine. This bill is better than legal execution, a clearer definition of the scope of environmental audit. With regard to the bill submitted by the People's Deputies, there are quite a number of provisions that must be implemented in the President's Bill. In particular, the Presidential Bill should include an article on the definition of the terms used in the bill; the positions that would distinguish environmental audit by its tasks and objects. I also deserve the attention of chapter 4, which lists the competence of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, the Central Executive Authority on environmental issues and natural resources, local self - government bodies. Many useful positions are also contained in chapter 7. But I would like, honourable Members, to draw your attention to the need for this bill, because some people doubt that it is unnecessary, that environmental audits should be carried out within the framework of a general audit. I don't think that's right if we don't accept this bill. The thing is, we're going to be implementing the ideologies of sustainable development anyway. The ideologie of continuous development is that environmental imperatives, environmental requirements, are equal to social and economic requirements. So we're talking about a particular type of activity, it's an environmental activity. And since we are going to implement this ideology of continuous development, and since we understand this ideology with emphasis on environmental requirements, on environmental imperatives, we certainly need to create a legal basis for this activity. On the other hand, let's face it, what is being done today in practice and by the heads of many enterprises, and by the heads of public authorities, it is, as people say, "not in the shadows, not in the gates." Yesterday we were listening, yesterday we had parliamentary hearings on the issue of Chernobyl. And the scholar Sitnik spoke in this rostrum and drew our attention to the problem that arose today in the valley of the Dnipro River, just below Kiev. Where there are primordial meadows, where there are primordial lakes, where there are very interesting beavers, where edomic plants grow, there are now perhaps 1,000 hectares of sand taken from Dniper, where all these onions are washed. I mean, we're going to lose our natural source of water treatment, we're going to lose our beauty, and it's going to be in front of the government houses, across from the president's. This is done in a place where half the kinks of summer leave for rest. If we had an environmental audit, if we could conduct environmental audits, this area, as proposed in the bill, would never have been destroyed. You mean, it's not just destroying Dnipro, when millions of tons are chosen, it's not just destroying the bows themselves, it's still going to have to be destroyed three times as much land to get the soil there to bring the black earth there. So, dear friends, I would like to ask you to adopt the Presidential Bill as a basis, to add to this, in the second reading of this bill, the positions that are in the bill of MPs, and to adopt this bill as a whole, we need it very, very much today. We need to change that inertia of thinking, we need to understand that the speed of modern life is much higher than it used to be. And by the time we're here, we'll be able to think or turn around, we'll already see whole regions of natural landscapes being destroyed. Look in Kiev, it's not far from Asold's grave, there's a monument to Andrew the First-born, a huge cool slope. And this cool slope, which was held solely by sloping, is now completely cut and cut out, because perhaps today someone needs to build a hotel or maybe someone wants to make a tour site. So I, the honourable people's deputies, just asking you to accept this bill, it's going to help us change the situation for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u86	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Vladimir Yavorowski. Next Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u87	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear John Alexanderovich, reporter! You've literally upset my heart by the fact that who could have thought of it this way in front of the Presidential House right in front of it and washing the sand, could have been a little bit lower or a little higher. You don't have any information on who's doing this to our President? And the second question. We will have the Audit Law. The most important place we had to do the audit is in the Chernobyl area. You, John Alexanderovich, well know that there are about a thousand temporary burials that are practically supplied with groundwater. You know that the station is built right on the break of this granite shield, and it's very easy to get through the groundwater that's contaminated by radiation into the main underground pool. So if you have to do, let's say the most important audit, who, for which money local authorities, would the Chernobyl area pay for it or who?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u88	First question. I don't have accurate information right now who's doing this ruckus. But today, I'm with the Ukrainian National Deputy to the President of Ukraine Kuchma, literally here after his speech with him giving instructions, first of all, to put an end to this crime. Second, fix the situation. I think the honourable MPs are what he sees. But we need to take a number of steps with you to let the public know what's going on. We need to prove to the public the danger of such activity. So you have to write parliamentary questions, you have to write articles in the papers, and you have to go to the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, to stop this crime. That's the first one. The other one. With regard to environmental audit in the Chernobyl area. Yes, there is an environmental audit to be done. There's a lot of activity going on in the disposal of shelters where there's a lot of radioactive, we're going to talk about the technology that's radioactively contaminated. And in this regard, I think that the contracting authority can speak with the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and the contracting authority can speak with another ministry. And it's going to have to use state funds right over here. There is no need to feel sorry for the state’s funds. Because if we don't conduct an environmental audit, we don't stop doing that, we're going to spend a million times the cost when any accident happens. You heard yesterday that, again, until yesterday, the beach dam wasn't built in the same Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u89	Please give a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u90	The left bank -- again, it needs to be patched up and so forth. And if you go to the same Dnipro, you look at millions of tons of sand in any few months. So you can do it if you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u91	Please, Sergey Chelnokov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u92	Solomon’s word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u93	Please, solomatin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear John Alexanderovich, we have worked so well with you on the committee on this law, and this is Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, our famous academic, who also praises us behind my back. Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, for your support. I want you and I to provide an explanation for our deputies. Already our colleague, the minister, he's explained a little bit more, please say, there we have this notion of "certifying the right to conduct an environmental audit," and at the same time there is a "licensing certain types of activity." How to distinguish between the granting of a certificate and the granting of a licence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u95	If we're talking about a license, in this case you're talking about an activity. The type of activity is a person who has some kind of qualification or legal personality that does this kind of activity, but to this person, there should be classification requirements for this person. And these classification requirements, the standard of knowledge or the standard, we're going to say, the understanding of this problem is certified by the certificate itself. This document deals with the issue of the certificate being issued by the certification authority, but there are proposals for such a certificate to be given by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. I think in the second reading we're going to finally define this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u96	Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u97	Stepan Bulba, a faction of socialists, please pass on the word to Leonid Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u98	Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. Dear Ivan Alexanderovich! I understand your concerns about the presence of the President in the courtyard or in the sand. You once had to be on the Cremenchuan Sea, where a number of large villages have been destroyed or each year. And it washed up the highest mountain on the left bank of Pevya Ukraine. This Peevia, why it's so tall, it's called "The Thug" there, it's buried in the misty weather of millions of our countrymen, and now these skulls are floating in the water and the botulism is striking our people. So I'd like you to tell me if you support the opinion of the minister who says it's a confession, and we don't all have confessions. Yes, not to make this confession a general obligation, and to make confessionals responsible for what they have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u99	First. Mr. Vernigoro, I'm not going to let the President fall asleep in the sand because you've given me such an act as if I'm worried about the President's hand. I'm worried about the meadows and pastures that are before the President's hand. I care about those tens and thousands of people, hundreds of thousands, who go to rest because they have nowhere else to go. That's who I'm worried about. And now, in relation to what is done to the banks of the Kremenchück reservoir. That's what we're doing with the Kyivsky watershed, and that's what we're doing with the Kanivsky watershed, and I know this problem. And you remember, here, in this room, there were parliamentary hearings after the sundown. And in the recommendations of the Supreme Council, we have just drawn attention to this problem. Here again, the Matvienkov MP raised the question of the Azov Sea, which is the same in this row. What's more, we've been offering you and we're going to suggest that in the next year's budgeting, we're going to write down that all the funds that come from the special use of water resources are used to eliminate the sources of land destruction and so on, and that's exactly what these funds would be used to strengthen the shores. The problem of strengthening the shores, such as the Kremenchück Sea, is now on the order of the day. And it's up to us, honourable deputies, that much depends -- whether we direct those funds in that direction or give them to the general part of the budget, and they're going to dissolve and they're not going to be used. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u100	Ivan Alexandrovich, time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u101	I mean, honourable deputies, these two books are "Ecological Audition," "Ecological Audition." So there are already complete textbooks where this problem is described, and experience is shown. So once again, I ask you to reject your perhaps corporate interests and vote Thursday for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u102	Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to the national deputy Karmazin. The next school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, reverently suffering Ukrainian people! You are offered another law that could be avoided. And our democratic John the Rabbit, who is right in pain for ecology, did not say anything about it. And the main thing here is that, given that we have a law on environmental expertise, it would be more appropriate to add to that law the words "and environmental audit," to define the subject of regulation by several articles and to put it at that point. And you wouldn't have to break a spear and a president who didn't see any other problem than passing a far-off imperfect bill and a lot of people's deputies. It is imperative to include articles that have been devoted to the area of environmental auditing and environmental expertise, since there is one subject - environmental assessment of the activities of enterprises and business entities, their impact on the environment, and disagreements, the conflict between these laws can lead to serious consequences. Now it's about an evaluation that we don't have to say from this rostrum today. I want to talk about the budget committee of March 11th. It states that the draft law on environmental auditing introduced by the President is one that will have an impact on the spending of budgets. The committee supports the adoption on the basis of the Ministry of Finance’s observations on the conduct of the client’s environmental audit and in accordance with part three of article 27 of the budget code, i.e. the implementation of the new budget year. It's not written in this project again, and it's not going to sound like that again. And then, the bill that the President of Ukraine introduced Kuchma, and he's, you see, he's got 300 pages across the border to write -- and about environmental audits to take care of, that's the kind of multi-professor president we have, this bill has a lot of flaws. In particular, it is not said which special training, which spheres are to be hidden under adjacent areas, where it is proposed in Article 13, does not specify in the 21st article which certification authority the certificate is issued, whether it is performed once or periodically or not. It is not clear how executive authorities can order organs, that is, very many questions before this bill, and it would be appropriate to send it back for re-reading, to take into account the provisions of the laws of the national deputies Karpov, Tolstouchov and Shevchuk, and would be a normal bill. Otherwise, it could be something that would not benefit the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u104	Andrew School, next up is Samantha. Stick to the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u105	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly, is a political party. I would, of course, like to say right away that the environmental audit bill is necessary because there is a small difference between expertise and auditing. Expertization is what happens right after the start of an enterprise, and the audit that keeps this company running all the time. But I would like to highlight a few aspects here. You know, you always have to ask, who's in favor? That's because all of this is covered up, that's a benefit to the people of Ukraine, that's a benefit to the conservation process, that's a benefit to all those who are not, in principle, listed in this project. And who does it really benefit? We're taking a bill submitted by the Karpov People's Deputies, Tolstoy, Shevchuk, thick, 28 pages, I completely agree with, but we're rejecting 27 pages and we're taking the last page of the Final Position, where it's written that the creation of the Central Executive Body of environmental and natural resources of Ukraine to the Department of Environmental Audit, on which the functions of introducing the State's voluntary register of industrial areas and other functions under this law are laid down. I like "state" and "voluntary." You know, we've been through a lot of volunteering. And the main thing is that we're building another structure. Who will finance it, who will support it, and at what expense will it function? So in all my, you know, my famous position I'm going to have to call on you not even to vote for the bill proposed by the people's deputies. And if we support it, unfortunately, we're going to have to support the bill that the President's team has proposed, because I don't think he, the President himself, has anything to do with it. Finally, it must be duly stated that it is more detailed, clearer, and without this beautiful end - of - the - line situation, which clearly explains the answer to the question to whom it was convenient to do so. That's why I wanted to, of course, there's a lot of rights to be added here. And it can only be about the first reading and it can continue to work. There's something you can do, because there's basically regulations written in the bill of MPs a little bit better, but I'll say it again. The entire bill is nullified by this eventuality. So I would recommend supporting this bill 2417 with the first reading, just the first reading, so that we can protect, let's say, the nature of the environment. This is very important because the auditory activity will be carried out, especially once again, throughout the entire activity of an enterprise, the protection of an object. If we now support this bill, in principle, I think that by further developing and engaging our forces in Parliament, we can give the executive structure a normal quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u106	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, next to Krutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u107	Yuri Solomatin, a member of the environmental policy and environmental committee and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. Dear colleagues, there is such a tradition. And there's this habit in our society, and even in our MP environment, when it's said in Russian, "everybody is dreaming of a hero seeing a fight on the side." And oftentimes, we, my dear fellows, try to qualify and draw conclusions from these kinds of activities, well, when it comes to football, we're all evaluators. We can't kill the naked ones ourselves, but tell them who and how they didn't kill that goal and why we can. The same is true of developments surrounding the discussion of the bill. We have a great deal of environmental footballers. And that's why I want to stress again. I took into account that we have environmental football players, such amateurs, where I proposed to Minister Shevchuk a special question: "What makes environmental audit different from environmental expertise?" And he made that very clear. But once again, one of my colleagues came out to this rostrum and began to wander around in these two pines because he was a great environmental football player. So once again, in accordance with the Law on Environmental Expertise, I remind you that those environmental requirements that are to be implemented are to be designed and implemented. They have been put into operation, and as these tasks continue to be carried out or violated, and even new circumstances that violate environmental requirements are already the basis for environmental audit. Indeed, there are some such contradictions, and there has not been a clear distinction between the two laws of the one that is already in operation and the one that is being proposed. And that's the conclusion of the Law Institute. We should be grateful that he drew our attention to this. And the next. There are many definitions used in these laws: environmental consulting, environmental audit reports, and audit findings. And I'll stop at the last one. There is such a sentence in the Chernobyl Act that the inspection of pollution zones is carried out on the basis of expert conclusions provided by the National Commission and so forth, which lists the relevant authorities. But what is really going on? There is no form of this conclusion, and for 12 years these relevant central executive authorities have been unable to give this form of expert conclusion. So these are the details they need to work very thoroughly in the law. And I think that we should take these two laws together as a basis, and first of all, it seems that the more well-founded is Law 1092-1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u108	Mikola Fedorovich Krutz, next one is Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u109	Mikola Krutz, city of Ivano-Frankivsk, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies. Environmental audit as a self-direction in market management will allow without additional budgetary costs to strengthen environmental management, improve the efficiency of government environmental management and, of course, have certain features. In particular, the focus on balancing public policy with the policy of the manufacturer, which ensures the competitiveness of its production and the protection of the environment, i.e. the acceptance of macro-micro-environmental safety. Therefore, the State must be interested in establishing an environmental audit and creating appropriate legal conditions for its execution. It has now become clear that environmental inspections and economic coercion alone cannot preserve nature. This requires a change in the relationship between the owners, the population, and the government’s control bodies. The Environmental Audit Act should involve problems related to increasing environmental performance at national and local levels, promoting reconciliation of economic, environmental interests in the field of material production. As far as I am concerned, which of the bills tabled today for consideration by Parliament are preferred, I believe that is the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to make a number of remarks to this bill, 1092-1. First, in article 1 of the bill, it is appropriate to define all the key terms used in this project. By the way, this is done in an alternative project. These include concepts such as environmental activities, environmental risks, environmental audiences, and logical audit findings. It's different. We need to clarify the definition of the basic concept of environmental auditing. The proposed definition is too difficult to understand. The definition should reflect the basic essence of environmental audit, which is that such audits are a test of the relevance of certain activities related to the negative impact on the environment set by legislation. Third. It is more important to write in the law the positions that apply to the audit report and its part as advanced!!!!!!!!Oh, my God! Because this document is the main one in environmental testing. It will have a significant impact on the owners. It is also clear that it is possible to challenge the changes made by the audit, etc. That is, to ensure that the results of the environmental audit are objective. Fourth. The role of the relevant central executive body on environmental issues and natural resources in this process, the Ministry of Environment and Ukraine's natural resources remains unclear. In general, the project needs to be adopted in the first reading and improved in its text for adoption in the second reading as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u110	Vladimir Kirilovich Černjak, next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! The environmental situation obliges us to adopt the Environmental Audit Act. Of course, it's not perfect, I share that view, but I don't think we can go on with this process. In my opinion, we need to adopt a presidential bill in the first reading in the process of preparing for second reading to introduce many of the right points that are in the MP's bill and make those proposals that have been taken out of this rostrum, as well as those that will be submitted by the people's deputies. The bill defines the scope of environmental audit and defines certain terms. I also want to support the proposal that the first article should give a clear definition of all terms relating to environmental auditing. They, by the way, are better reported in the MP's bill, and they're going to have to be transferred there, and that's going to have to be clearly defined. In particular, there was a heated discussion about the difference between environmental expertise and environmental auditing. Environmental expertise is an integral part of environmental and all economic projects. But this is a once-in-a-lifetime move. Environmental audit is a constant co-existence, it has to be continuously carried out. And I would like to support the proposal that the Javorowski MP made in his question regarding the audit of the Chernobyl area. This should be a constant co-existence of the environmental situation in Chernobyl law and the conclusion of the audit recommendations. The bill is positive that it makes recommendations on the basis of an audit. Well, that's what Vasil Yakovitch has been talking about. True, he called it a confessional audit, it's remembered, but it still needs to be legally more clearly defined and recommended, whether it's mandatory or not. It's also very important. Moreover, it is very important who will finance the audit. Of course, the state, if it is a customer, and may be the owner if it voluntarily wants to conduct audits to prevent environmental harm. I would like not to finish putting this bill into a broader context. Audite, conclusions. The report and conclusions are very important. The findings provide an opportunity to form a program of action, recommendations, a modernization program, a program to introduce new technologies to prevent negative effects. And finally, we have to talk about the prospects for environmental standards, and there are environmental standards all over the world. If they are broken, environmental sanctions are used. There are environmental inspectors and so on. I mean, I'd like to associate this with the action program, the modernization of the situation and the technology, the environmental standards, the environmental sanctions. And with the transition towards an environmental economy. If we are thinking conceptually and in a forward-looking way, the Supreme Council should ask questions to the government and itself adopt laws that would allow for the formation of an environmental economy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u112	Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u113	Vladimir Yavorowski, Javorowski Jovkovsky district, Galicina Victor Yuschenka's block of Ukraine. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear voters who are listening to us now. After all that has been experienced in the 20th century alone, Ukraine has every reason to have even doubled the grounds for our Fatherland, our land on which we live to be considered a zone of ecological disaster. Especially after Chernobyl. Don't let your eyes drop, on the one hand, absolutely stupid, stupid seas, which we multiplied along the Dniepra, flooding thousands of hectares of the most fertile, best land in Ukraine, where there were once smooth and grazing millions of cattle and small and large. These are, of course, small rivers that have almost dried up today and turned into streams. This was a long - term policy, when 10 years of drought took place and 10 years later, in the same areas, irrigation was sought, as it were. It's also a terrible catastrophe that happened over Ukrainian land after so-called chemistry, when totally thousands of tons of tons of it were lurking into this miserable land of ours, it's also our technology that violated the soil and so on, and chemistry and so on. So today we're really facing a huge problem, whether we're a general Ukrainian nation on this earth, whether we're able to adapt after Chernobyl with its first-level zones, the second-level dead zone, the third level. I worked in the first draft of these laws, and I know them very well. And it's practical that after yesterday's readings, we can evaluate the situation as if we just forgot about Chernobyl and we think it's better not to pay attention to it, and somewhere there's something out there between. It's all behind our shoulders, not far from Kiev, all of this hangs over Dniprom. And of course, today we're discussing whether or not to enact such a law, I'm saying again, it's just not right. But I want to say something else now that's the law, and I want to take another look at tomorrow, whether this law will be implemented and whether it will give Ukraine a little bit or Ukraine will be able to fight on the side of this law in order to save itself. I'm sure you don't. Once again, our authority demonstrates that when God takes away his mind, he gives power. We've got, we're back to the magnitude of the giant mania. Now we have to solve the environmental problems, now let's create a department, let's make a law. I'd like to ask the minister: you don't count how many bribes will be taken by your ministry to issue these licenses. At which point the publisher is not told exactly, not quite sure. Who has four years of experience there and so forth. That's clear. Next. Will someone, a private enterprise, pay a penny to conduct this audit? No, it's not. It's all going to come from the State Budget. It's going to be a shadow economy. They're going to demand, they're going to break some money for themselves, so they're going to twist it through these structures. With the kind of authority that we have today, it's only going to be like that. Because, I would suggest, first of all, that we exclude this article on creation now, John the Rabbit, don't wave, you were the minister, and I know that you will support it. Because of that, we have to rule out the formation of another department in the Ministry. We have a huge ministry and we have colossal environmental problems. Because I think it's just over us, to some extent, they're even bullying us, putting us up with a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the time taken to consider this matter is exhausted, but it remains. Just a minute. But we have three willing speakers. If we give each of them a minute, no objection? Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, please the next one is Dragnibok. Just don't go over the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u115	Thank you, Gennady Andreevich. Matvienkov 55 district, the city of Mariupol. Dear Ivan Alexandrovich, I ask you to listen. Dear colleagues, the subject that we are talking about today is indeed a very painful subject and I think it is a feeling that we are talking more about this topic than we are specifically doing. As a result, we have these kinds of laws that primarily try to raise money. Waste Act. It doesn't solve the waste problem, but it looks like it's a metal scraper to send it out for export. Waste Codex. Same system. Let's see how we work to regulate the export of scrap metal and so on. I respect Ivan Alexandrovich Zajc, but I want to tell you, Ivan Alexandrovich, the environmental problem is not just Asuldova Mogila, it's not someone else's. We have great regions, such as Donbass, Mariupol, Alcevsk. We have Curve Horn, we have huge problems that need to be solved today. And if you think that we're going to do an audit or an audit problem there, that's the biggest topic and the biggest disaster in the region, you're very wrong. That's not the point. We know what to do there today. Today, money and money are needed, not in the center, but on the ground, to make the money work, to solve the problem. If you think we're going to set up an additional structure today, which, for bribes or bribes, is going to be conducted by no one who doesn't need to be audited, and no money will be put in place to solve the environmental problem. Or that we're going to push the same Horn Curve where the terricones will go, or the tailgates will go. Never in my life will this problem be solved. Today, this problem requires a serious public approach with funding, and I stress once again, not with the creation of an additional structure that would put this money under its own funding. And the system, when we get out of the audit, we'll talk there, the money, then we'll crown, we'll master, we'll make another report, well, good event, no questions. We're gonna report to the people one more time that we're talking about ecology and other things. So I don't mind doing this audit, I say again. I cannot understand yet why the committee is blocking the consideration of Law 2209. When we took a concrete step and said, let's figure out where the environmental money is going, let's leave 70 percent of each ruble on the spot, and let's report and ask for each particular ruble. And today we are trying to solve this problem in a completely different way: we are going to create an institution that will lead, so to speak, another work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u116	Oleg Tegnibok is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u117	Thank you, Mr. Head, for allowing me to express my opinion on this law. I'd like to support this bill, actually, just to give you two examples. We in the Lviv region, how would the situation improve if there was a position such as environmental auditing? For example, for several years in Kamyanko - Buzekka, Kamyanko - Buzekka, there was a huge problem with the fact that one of the foreign investors invested money in the construction of the factory. This factory created huge problems in Kamyanko - Buzekka. And just because the public was involved, only because there were rallies that people went out for a drink did they manage the situation a few years later. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, your structure, not as a minister at the time, but the structure you led in this situation was extremely fitting. I think if there was an environmental audit then, if it were an honest person, and there were honest and decent people working in that structure, it would be a problem that could be solved without undue oppression in society. And the second problem. This is already the Buzah district, the village of Jedekiv. This is the problem that stands today. They want to make a grave of poisons in that village. B is actually already the representatives of your structure, that is, environmental inspectors, unfortunately, do what they do to falsify documentation. I don't know whose deal. Obviously, it's a good thing for someone. So probably environmental audits, and the person who's going to be dealing with this problem, should be in control of the same environmental inspectors. And the only thing I don't agree with you is that you've been talking about confession, that the enterprise has to be given an environmental audit. But no, there must be sanctions, an enterprise must understand that it will be responsible for violating this legislation. I personally address you, Minister, Mr. Vasile, please note the village of the Jews, the gravel of poison chemicals, the Bouquet Region, the Lviv region. Mr. Head! Thank you again for the opportunity to express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u118	The question is closed. In one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! Here, Deputy Matvienkov stated that I want to protect the environment, but only through environmental audits, and I want to protect the environment, only by protecting the slopes of Dniper, the monuments, and the Dniper Valley. Mr. Matvienkov, if you had a conscience and felt how I spoke about the Azov Sea, you would not have claimed it. So what you're saying here is completely unconscionable. And Mr. Yavorowski here himself said that since I was the minister, that's why I'm defending this bill. I'd like Mr. Yavorowski to protect his own. matters as protected by the environment as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u120	And this isn't Parliament at all. The question is closed, the vote will take place on Thursday. Let's move on to the next one. Draft Law on State Targeted Programmes. The Minister of Economics and European Integration of Ukraine, Horoshkovsky Valery Ivanovich, please, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u121	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! The need to draft a bill is due to the lack of legal security, design and approval in Ukraine at this time, and the implementation of state targeted programmes. The process of developing and approving programs has become uncontrollable in Ukraine. With each year, the number of state-of-the-art programs is increasing. As a result of the regulatory imbalance in the programming process, there is a disagreement between the programs involved, their actions and tasks. In addition, virtually all government programs have not been provided with real funding in recent years according to the scope of the programming documents. This leads to their failure in fixed terms, the continuation of deadlines, the lack of efficient use of funds. In my opinion, the main reason for this situation is the inconsistent and illogical actions of both the executive and the legislative authorities in the process of developing and implementing state-level targeted programmes. Without the adoption of the relevant legislative act, we will not be able to stop the uncontrollable increase in software and ensure the transition from quantity to quality of software documents. I want to focus your attention on those fundamental points that are the basis of the mechanism for the development and implementation of programmes that will be implemented through the adoption of this bill. First. The decision on whether or not to develop the State Target Program is the responsibility of only the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The other one. The development of State - purposed projects is preceded by mandatory design and approval of the concept. Third. The composition of the state-of-the-art target program has been unified. Four. Procedures for the approval of state-owned target programmes have been established. Fifth. What changes and additions can be made to state-of-the-art targeted programs when they are implemented. The decision to make changes and additions to the national target programme shall be taken by the authority that approved the program. Six. The bill solves the problem of shutting down programs. Seven. The provisions of this law set out the requirements for balancing the financial resources needed for their execution. And eight. The creation of a list of state-level targeted programmes is envisaged for the National Economic and Social Development Programme projects of Ukraine, based on all sources of funding and the national budget of Ukraine, at the expense of the State budget for the year in question. Nine. There is a year-on-year analysis of the status of the supported target programs, followed by the introduction to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the further execution or termination of the programs. Ten. Reports are provided by the contracting authority on the implementation of the program annually and on the final results of the program. And the last bill clearly establishes the powers of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science and other bodies of executive power of the public contracting authorities in the programming process. The current and active nature of the draft Law on State Targeted Programmes is supported by a number of committees and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The management concludes that the bill is a clearly structured normative act of direct action. The exclusive algorithm for action from initiating the problem to approving a implementation report that is fully in line with domestic legislation. We have considered carefully the comments made by the committees and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration on specific provisions of the bill, and we believe that virtually all of them can be taken into account in the second reading of the bill. Please accept the draft Ukrainian Law on State Objective Programmes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u122	Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up. The word is given to Carmazin, successor to Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister! Don't you think that in this law you also want to perpetuate the name of the Ministry of Economics and of the European integration of Ukraine, at least I think that if there is an economy, then integration will be. And so far, we have no integration, no economy. And not only do you want to perpetuate it, but you want to limit the powers of the individual and the deputies, because only under your draft article 10 does the Cabinet of Ministers submit a program to the Supreme Council that approves it, but the right of every national MP to the legislative initiative? How, then? That's why I think there's a violation of the Constitution. As you look at it, first of all, and second of all, how to get out of this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. I think that all national MPs, like other Ukrainian citizens, are subject to Ukrainian law. And actually, as defined in the law, in this form it's going to work. The only thing that's rational about your question, in my opinion, is why this proposal comes from the Ministry of Economics. I'll explain. The thing is, first of all, we're not interested in the number of programs, but in their execution, and actually in increasing the responsibility for the execution of state programmes, and we're looking at the adoption of this law. If it is accepted, we have confidence not only from public statements of some or other action to come out of the crisis of certain regions or from other factors caused by the application of the program but also from the final result of the execution of a government program. And another point is balance, because if you count everything that's to be done today, there's no State budget for that, of course, that's not enough. This clears up the responsibility, as you understand. Actually, this is where we get the problems that you mentioned in your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u125	Anatoly Frost, next Night's Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u126	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Valery Ivanovich, well, first of all, I would like to hear from the Cabinet of Ministers, perhaps from you personally, how many programs we have created in the state and in general to inform the government, and what program we have in our country is being implemented there or several programs. That's the first question. At least in part you said something. To inform the government. And the second question is what the government is doing and what it's using to finance these targeted programs. Well, I'm just gonna stop for a few. You know, there's a program there called "Silence School Bus," there's a program called "Silling School Computer." And I was surprised, in the last financial year, Zaporezka District, you know, takes second place in per capita income, and unfortunately, 22nd place in spending in Ukraine, and last year, no money came to Zaporez. Do you think that's normal? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u127	Thank you. The first part of your question. Today, 216 programs are being approved and implemented in Ukraine. And in 2002, only 58 programs were adopted, and in 2001 50 programs were adopted. In addition, there are 56 other projects at the approval stage of February 1, 2003. So you can imagine how much funding it takes to make it happen. I think then the second question is also clear that actually when you adopt a budget, none of these programs are taken into account. And actually, why do we ask for this bill so that we can have the legal right to claim budgetary funding and have the responsibility to execute one or the other program. Because there is no answer to your question today. Who should I ask? The budget is not budgeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u128	Please, Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u129	Dear reporter, I have a question of such a plan. [[Hard Ukraine faction, 160 constituency]] In drafting the bill, did you take into account the programmes that are being implemented in our country under a mixed system of financing with foreign investment? For example, a World Bank loan or a Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Under what conditions? Is there, after all, a national advantage over the demands of investors who give money on certain terms? And the second question. Please tell the state program can be effective. if she's going through the principal, which one is responsible for this program? If it's state-owned, maybe it should be under the guise of your ministry. Then the chief executive will be fully responsible for the funds held for the government program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u130	Thank you. What's involved in lending different structures -- both the EBRD and the World Bank -- is a particular topic, it doesn't apply because, in fact, when it comes to government targeted programs, we set priorities. Funding can be different and different. So, of course, some of the priorities from the Western investor's point of view are not. You agree with the credit project, and there are specific conditions that you either accept or do not accept. With respect to your second offer. You can, of course, consolidate all of this at the Ministry of Economics in terms of, well, minimum balance, right? That is to balance and understand how these programs can be implemented. But what, of course, the budget costs have to go through the chief executive is the Budget Codex, you know that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u131	Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u132	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I took it for reasons, Hennady Andriyovich, because I'm not getting any, neither am I, nor my colleagues, to ask a question to the reporter. The language goes that very, very much, we listened to this bill today by Valery Ivanovich, and there are questions. For example, I have a question, and I have analyzed the Cabinet of Ministers program in Zakarpatta, Rahiv district. Out of the 14 answers I got from the ministries, I analyzed that there was an 18 percent target program on Rahov. It's a mountain area, and that's why it's very relevant. The reporter saved time. It took time to ask the MPs. Because it's a very important bill. We need to discuss, we need to ask a question, we need to vote in the end of Thursday, and we need to figure it out today. Three questions asked and all, we can no longer implement ourselves as an MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u133	Honorary colleagues regarding the Rules determine the identity committee. Mikhail Vasilovich, please ask a question. Then, do you understand Valery Ivanovich? Can you answer him?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u134	Of course I can. Yeah. What I'm saying is that it's your dissatisfaction with the execution of one program or another that makes sense. Because I'm stressing these numbers that I called, that 216 programs are being implemented. And actually, when we're looking at the budget with you guys, unfortunately, we can't balance these programs from the point of view of their implementation through public funding. And then it turns out that by 18, by 7, some people aren't doing it at all, even though we're politically accepting them. Therefore, the desire in this law to balance the situation by state programs and to have the responsibility of the government for their implementation. Then you will have someone to ask and what to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u135	This is not the subject of this law, but I agree with you. The only thing is, once again, if we balance them with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u136	Time's up. Have a seat, please. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. While he's coming, please, Assadchev with motive. One minute, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u137	Thank you. Gennady Andryovich, I have a question for you, because you are now representing the leadership of the Supreme Council, of the procedure. I can't understand why the committee of profile has been appointed here by the Economic Policy Committee. So the law under consideration has nothing to do with economic policy, national governance, property, and investment. This is the law that is part of this budget process, this program funding is made out of the budget. They're planned as budget programmes, approved both budget and so on. Why do I say that? Because today we have one budget system that actually works. And now there's a law that has nothing to do with this budget system. That's why I thought it was. Well, I'm not saying there's no need to take it away from them, but at least there's a budget committee here as well. Otherwise, this bill will never work unless it is integrated into the single system budget concept that exists in Ukraine today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u138	Okay. I see. That's a very good question. If this bill is adopted in the first reading, it should be defined by the second committee and the budget committee, because much depends on it. Please report to Vladimir Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u139	Respectable colleagues are members of the People's Republic. The importance of the area of relations that will be regulated after the adoption of the bill on the State target programme as a law is enormous for our country, I would say, determining for our future. This is the kind of regulatory document we've needed for a long time. It is good that he is being considered today, although we must say with serious delay. You know that today we are going to consider, more precisely tomorrow, the Cabinet of Ministers programme, and today's bill is one of the steps to methodologically ensure the systematic state programming process. In answer to the question, what is the primary, budget or target programme, only a targeted programme when it addresses the most pressing issues and the budget is the means to implement the programme. I want to talk to you for a few moments. First. What would you like to point out? What is possible with the adoption of this law is not to have in the State a set of different programmes with weak objectives, but often these programmes are contradictory, but still try to build a system of country-wide development policy documents. Second. As legislators, we will be able to better analyse the entire situation related to the review and approval of the programme, and we will be able to better see the role and place of each programme in the common system. And third. Indeed, there is a real basis for addressing the extremely difficult problem of the rational distribution of State resources. Above all, financial resources. At this stage, when we have a list of State-wide programmes, when individual public programmes are developed, we must take them into account in the budget. I mean, budget planning is still secondary. The bill provides for the establishment of a legal framework for the implementation of targeted programmes as a means of programme management of all public policies in priority areas. They should not be 200-300, as Valeri Ivanovic had said before, but there should be a number of targeted main programmes aimed at introducing an innovative approach, aimed at a major economic breakthrough, meeting the main challenges. The ultimate objective to be achieved is to establish an effective system of training and to monitor the implementation of public targeted programmes. Control, including here at the Supreme Council Hall. The proposed draft law could be regarded as a clearly structured direct act, as noted in the findings of the Scientific and Expert Office. This paper will result in an algorithm from initiating the problem to approving the report and implementation, which is very important, they have comments, I believe that they can be taken into account during the preparation of the second-reading bill, and these comments concern implementation issues, the identification of the perpetrators and also funding. In our committee, positive decisions have been taken by the 8 committees on the bill, and all proposals have been adopted on first reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as I have already noted, also recommends the adoption of the first reading. All comments and suggestions received will be taken into account in the drafting of the bill. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this is an important document for us today, one of the most important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u140	Yes, thank you, Volodymyr Anatolyovich, do you have a question for our colleague? Please, let's write it down for five minutes. Put a list of the national deputies on the board. National MP Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u141	Please pass the word to Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u142	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u143	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear co-reporter, this is a question, perhaps more than a reporter, but I understand that you have prepared this bill together. What's the legal basis and who's to blame that we don't have those targeted programs. If you had to go from Lvov through Jeshu to Cracow, it says on the fences on uncut boards: Valasins for Ukraine, doors, dolls, dummies -- and on one, it says, "Mišolovka for Ukraine." So I think someone in our state, in the Cabinet of Ministers, or in the Ministry of Economics, should regulate what programs we should target or aimlessly accept so that we can make these mice in ourselves and not compete over us. And the second. How is it that we rightfully write these principles into the law, and let's write one of the main principles -- if there's no reform, let's go back to adopting five-year plans for the reconstruction of the national economy. And then we'll put all these programs in there. And if you're 5 years old, you're 7 years old. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u144	Thank you for asking. I want to tell you that we have not prepared this project together with the Ministry of the Economy, we have considered it on the committee and we have comments to it as well. But we believe that this document is very important and necessary, because we still have to come to the country for serious programme planning. And these programmes should not be five years old, should be a strategic development programme for the next 10-20 years, which will establish an innovative, innovative and investment approach. And on the basis of these strategic directions, for the next decade or 20 years, we must develop a programme of government activities, a programme of social and economic development. And when these programmes do not change for 11 years of our country's independence, 10 times, they change considerably. When there is no frequent change of government, and the task of our Government will be to carry out the programme that we will take with you, then there will be responsibility and result accordingly. I think so. In mice, where cheese is free.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u145	Alexander Colonyari, Ukrainian Deputy faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u146	Please pass the word to the MP, Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u147	People's MP Pecklusenko. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Anatolyevich. I have read this law and I do not like it, but I will vote for it and I will call on my colleagues to do so for one simple reason that it has been duly reported today by Minister Horoshkovsky. I have a high degree of trust in this person, because he always gives clear, specific answers to all my parliamentary appeals, at the request of my constituents. And I wanted to ask you a question that I couldn't ask him. Which is the main argument of the enforcement mechanism that the law should not be another portion of the maculture, but rather a guarantor of the executive branch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u149	Thank you for asking. The issue is not simple enough, because it will start programmes that are weakly effective, programmes that will not address the main objective, I would not say. But what I am positive about here is that I agree with you and support, so to speak, the position of the Minister of the Economy that this is a serious step towards systemic planning. If the adoption of this law gives us an opportunity to discuss publicly in this room, to work with the Government to determine the main areas, and this is a multi-termination process, from the Government's programme of activities to the social and economic development programme, to the individual sectoral programmes, to the regional programmes, that is to say, to guarantee greater efficiency and to make use of the budgetary resources for our country's economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u150	National Deputy Aloshin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u151	Dear Vladimir Anatoliyovich, I would like to ask you this question, perhaps it is not directly related to the bill; we have, as Valeriy Ivanovich pointed out in the report, many such specific ones. Often, the narrow sector programs are being implemented today. At the same time, among the tasks that are key to the Supreme Council, there are things like tax reform, pension reform, something else. And yet we don't have that kind of software in these directions. This applies both to the efforts of Parliament and to the government in terms of both pension and tax reform. Why do you think you're having such a hard time? We don't have a software approach, do we? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u152	Thank you. This is a very important issue, because when we talk about programmes, many, I think, may be in this room, the members of the Supreme Council and our fellow countrymen, it always comes up as an association, that this programme is some kind of science, technology, construction, social programme, but it is important to put an emphasis on an innovative economic programme, a programme that will include legislative activities in the field of economic reform as well as in tax activities. The fact that there is no such approach today is bad. I think that a new view on the economic issue will allow it to have a major programme, a programme of Government activities and economic social development in the country, which will include concrete steps specifically on economic innovation, tax reform and other activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u153	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Anatoliyovich, time is up. Let's get to the discussion, please, the lights on the table are the names of the national MPs who signed up for the discussion. Just 10 minutes, let's talk about this. Yuri Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the peoples of Ukraine, the great many-suffering people of Ukraine! It's only been a year since you were on your shoulders that you've been happy with 58 programs! Today, as the Minister of Economics said, it's 216, and we're still printing them. If we approach this printing, there will be more. I would like to draw attention to questions that have not been addressed today. In particular, I would like to remind you that apart from the Bible that our Lord has given us, there is another Bible, which is the Constitution. And there is this point in article 85 of this Constitution regarding the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it says, "Approval of state-wide economic, scientific, technical, social, national and cultural development of environmental protection." This means that if the Supreme Council accepts the program, it accepts it by law. And if she accepts it by law, the right of legislative initiative, Mr. Minister Khoroshkowski, belongs to whom? To the president, to the people's deputies, to the head of the National Bank. Read it. It's all written there. And what you've said today is that a national MP will obey the law, obey the Constitution, and it's written in the Constitution. So I understand that we need to get out of the winter, and to get out of the winter, we need to read the Constitution. What is the reason for the reform of power? To reform power has relations, there was only one need to accept the government's agenda, the solution to the crisis. An extraordinary program is a state program. We're demeaning the status of state programs when we give every program a narrow one, like Rikin said, "Something in the nose," and we're talking about what it is. I don't know how science and expertise have looked, they're usually very good at document studies. This time, the Bill, signed by Matsuk, did not see the attack on MPs' rights, did not see the absolute approval and approval of the Ministry, such as economics and European integration. Other ministries, departments of work, and social policy are listed. And if we go into European integration, they're going to rename ministries, what changes are we going to make here again? Then let's write that the authority of the government on this point. And about specific articles. When it is stated in article 10 that only by the submission of the Cabinet of Ministers what is provided for in the Constitution is a restriction on the rights of national MPs. I'm addressing the head, the head of the Department of Experts, Matsuk. Don't you see there's a limit to the rights of national MPs? Why aren't you reacting like that? Then look, open your eyes when you read the bill. And there are many serious inadequacies, including monitoring of the implementation of State-wide target programmes, article 13. The Supreme Council Committees have been rejected, the Supreme Council itself as a subject rejected as a subject of parliamentary control. In what other country is this possible? We're the only ones in Ukraine. So let's talk about what's good. And if we want to make a difference, let's not underestimate the notion of "state." And this is because, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it was necessary to look at the first committee here was the Committee of Legal Policy and then the economic and then the budget and so on. I thank you for your attention, and I would like all these things to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u155	Thank you. Ivan Alexandrovich Hare, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Let's continue for a minute the 10th morning session to finish this question. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u156	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the law is required. Another issue is how much this bill corresponds to those tasks that are dealt with before this law. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers' activities should be based only on a software-based principle and an approach. And the problem with our government today is that we don't have programs like these that don't become the basis for our activities. And to whoever wants to write, who wants to steal all this money, and so on. So such a bill is needed in order to produce some of the only approaches to the development and implementation of these state-of-the-art programs that still need to be approved in our government. Indeed, the Supreme Council accepts such programs and approves them by law. What comes of this? It follows that it cannot be written in a bill that the procedure for the development and execution of state-owned programs is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This bill must contain the basic elements of this order of development and the execution of these programs. Because we are the people who have to control the use of funds and many other things. Therefore, in the section concerning the authorization of central executive authorities, it is necessary to introduce the point that the Supreme Council has control over the implementation of these programs. So you have to say the same thing and write down the remit of the Minecores because there's a lot of environmental programs going on, but there's absolutely nothing to say about the Minecores. It's about the Ministry of Social Affairs, there are other things, but it's not about Minecores. That's why this part needs to be redrafted. Similarly, I am concerned that there is no such thing as a responsible performer. Okay, maybe there's a lot of performers, and then who do you want to ask? There's no one to ask. Hence, the concept of a responsible performer should be introduced. Today, the bill suggests that the initiator may be, for example, a district government authority that, among other things, develops a concept, and then this program seems to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. But please tell me, can a large circle of government programs be an initiator that can develop the concept of district authority? There's no such thing, little one. Take, for example, pool management or pool management of Dnieper’s water resources. Can one area, for example, produce and supply these things? It can only be the central authority of the executive branch. So you can talk about sanctions, you can talk about initiators and things like that. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we need such a law, but a project that is prepared does not solve all these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u157	Thank you. Mikhailo Antonovich Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u158	Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmeljničina. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear members of the government! Dear national MPs and the rest of the press! This is a very important question, and there are no journalists. Dear colleagues! I want to point out, Valery Ivanovich Horoshkovsky, that there is an idea and there is no law. The point is that this law, in addition to being inconsistent with the Constitution, is no longer in line with the laws in force. The Law on Priorities for Innovation is not included here at all. The law is about state programs -- it doesn't count either. So there's a good field here to work out this bill. So right now, I'm proposing that you can't accept it in the first reading, you have to re-read it because you have to change the structure here. What should be predicted? Most importantly, Your Honor, we have the Ministry of Industrial Policy. It determines what we should do, what new objects we should make and do, and there is no mention of it. Why programs if we don't make anything. We have the National Academy of Sciences, which coordinates scientific activity. And where it comes from, it's not there either. So we need to take a closer look at this, and along with the Ministry of Economics, which will monitor the financial flows of coordination, there should be the Ministry of Industrial Policy, which should determine what, if we produce and where the coordinator should have the National Academy of Sciences. Plus the other central organs that are here. This is once. On the other hand, there should be a separate article, “The Source of Financing”. There must be an article in the law. - It's an American law that says, "U.S.," and it prohibits the budget from funding foreign firms. Therefore, where the word “executor” goes, there should be “domestic performers” as in the United States. And finally, relative to the sources of funding. All the funds borrowed from the government, the loans from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Monetary Fund, should all work for these targeted programmes. And the amount of funding is going to be 2-3 billion dollars. Let's say a billion for regions other than industry. Otherwise we won't do anything serious. There will be no concentration, there will be no emphasis on innovation priorities, we will never achieve anything, if we join the WTO, and we will forget that something will ever happen to Ukraine, we will be a raw supplement and no more. So this program needs to be seriously worked out, as a whole, as an idea is needed, it just needs to be shaped as a normal law that meets the national interests, the interests of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u159	Peter Kuzmenko, the faction of the Social Democratic Party, isn't there? Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u160	Honorable national MPs and distinguished listeners. I'd like to say first of all that I fully support, that we need a law on state-of-the-art programs, but it's not like this. I understand that there was an attempt here to say that the deputies of the Supreme Council are the same citizens that we will adopt the law will sit here quietly and remain silent in two tubes, but that will not be the case. This is usually the law we do not intend to pass. Because control will be carried out by the interested party, I can't understand that we still have such nonsense when the prosecution simultaneously investigates and controls how it conducts this investigation. It's the same here. The Cabinet of Ministers will be carrying out state-owned programs and overseeing their implementation, a wonderful combination. How can you not believe the honesty of this proposal? So once again, I emphasize that dishonest authorities cannot offer honest proposals to our national MPs. This should be considered very carefully when we vote. We don't need to support the idea of state-of-the-art programs, we support this idea, but here we're going to vote in favour or against, we're going to uphold the law, the law that will destroy state-owned programs, not regulate their activities, but reject them as a phenomenon. Because if people get elected out of control in the morning, it immediately means that dark things are going to happen, otherwise they'll never be. And to detail. We can, of course, here I would like to stop at the general question of the state-of-the-art agenda. We need to accept -- I fully agree -- the only national target program to get out of the pit that Ukraine is in. We can accept dozens of targeted programs that are consistent with a bill, but they will not just work for the simple reason that the economy of Ukraine will not be able to provide at least some percentage of not 18 and not even five, but will not be able to provide the cost of implementing these programs. I have here, once again, colossal things, the city of Sambir, 40,000 people -- a city that lives without cleaning facilities. And here you can build these cleaners for 10 years, they'll never be built without some kind of outside intervention of some kind of capital. Or else they can be built when Ukraine's economy is working. We're trying to accept now, I say again, there's time, you don't have to rush this law. So whatever it is, 218 programs or whatever they're doing, I say again, they're being implemented by a couple percent, and the law won't solve the cost of these programs. We have to write a strict quality law, a law that would allow for the control functions of people and peoples -- that's what's most important to me. Since there is no rush here, it does not entail any international obligation, it is we that regulate domestic legislation and we have to regulate domestic legislation so that we can make it comfortable for us to use it so that the successors who come to the Cabinet of Ministers do not have the opportunity to engage in this sort of gray control, but to be clear, clean, white and bright. So my proposal is to simply reject this bill. If anyone wants to read it again, please, but my suggestion is to reject it as a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u161	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u162	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The situation surrounding the approval and execution of state - owned targeted complex programs obliges us to adopt legislation on state-owned programs. We're in this area right now with chaos, tambourine, and vacchanalism. This obliges us to regulate the programming process in a legislative way. That is why I want to support the government in its desire to regulate this process legislatively. Which is part of the positive side of this bill. Without question, it is the determination of whether or not the program is relevant, the concept of the program, the component programs, the approval of it, the financial resources, the list of state-of-the-art programs, the analysis of the status of their implementation and the report of the client, the establishment of the powers of the Supreme Council in this process. So that gives us reason, in my opinion, to support the very idea and the very concept. This law is a conceptual law, it's a framework law, it sets rules. Under this law, specific programs will be adopted that require funding, as Assadchev said. But this law, as a framework, conceptual law, does not require funding. We need to determine how we should be. At the same time, in my opinion, we need now to inventory all the programs we have, this is my offer to the government. What is the state of their execution, why? Let's focus on that. Because you can't run 216 programs at the same time. Next, how does this programming process fit into the budget system, how does it fit into the budget code that it corresponds to the budget code? Next, make a clear determination as to the buyer and the executioner and the responsibility of both, and the performer. Both the report and the control over him. Next, relative to the number of applications, the number of applications, the number of terms. This is really something that needs to be improved in the law. Next, identify clearly with the sources of funding. Financing can be budget, it can be lending a program, and there can even be income programs that can generate income and finance themselves. There could be state-wide programs, regional programs, and by the way, you can focus on that. And finally, to what I think the programs should all be directed now. In the end, to move on to the innovation and investment model of economic development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u163	Thank you. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u164	I propose to support in the first reading, but to work seriously in the process of preparing for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-15-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on State Objective Programmes has been completed, we will decide on Thursday, the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed, recess until 16:00.
