ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Invite the national deputies to the session room. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:04:20]] Registered -436 Registered. We didn't make it, did we? We haven't all checked in yet. Then I ask you to call off the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. People's deputies please register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:07]] Registered -438 A total of 438 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the decree we passed on October 14th to amend the calendar plan for the fourth session today, the date of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. At work. I'll be right there. To review the budget, I'll make it clear. We voted that we have a plenary day of morning and evening. Dear National Deputies! The Prime Minister of Ukraine participates in our meeting, and there are also members of the government responsible for the economic bloc. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I will inform you of the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputies Zubcek Mikhail Vasilovich, Potek Mikhail Alexiyyovich and Razwadovski Viktor Josephovich as part of the People's Rule of Law. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! During the meeting of the Conciliation Board, we arranged for the order of our work on Thursday. I ask you to listen to the arrangements we have reached: first, to vote in favour of the draft regulation amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the consideration and decision-making of the issues under discussion in order to enable us to make decisions on those issues, more quickly to make the decisions that we have considered. I want to say to your acquaintance that today requires the voting of 310 bills and draft regulations that we have discussed earlier. The other one. We agreed that we would vote in favour of re-reading the two draft laws on the election of Ukraine's national deputies. It's a project that we've been looking at, the national MP Rudzkowski and Gavrish. I don't call others. We agreed that we would vote on the draft statement, the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation in the Kerchen Strait, which was worked out and, in fact, agreed with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. After that, let's go to the budget project. Did I inform you correctly? For five minutes, please log in from the procedure and from other questions. Joseph of Viennese. Put the name of the people’s deputies on the sign. Joseph of the Viennese faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u2	Vladimir Mihajlovich, please give the word to the head of the faction Alexander Alexandrus Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u3	Alexander Frost is a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs! We actually spent two days on the Conciliation Council agreeing on the election law. But the option of re-reading the two projects and taking them as a basis for the faction in the discussion is not understood. Because it's about the fact that they're diametrically different in terms of the procedures of the projects. Therefore, we must vote on the proposal that we have made, which does not raise doubts. In the first reading of the Rudzikowski project, Kludkowski, taking into account the proposals made in the Gavrish project. Next. We agree and insist after the ruling on the procedure for dealing with issues in the Supreme Council to consider the ruling on Tuzla, so that there is no doubt about the position of both our faction and the Supreme Council. And then we'll start talking about it in the order I'm proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u5	Thank you. Igor Ostrash is a faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u6	In support of the idea of voting first of all statements on Tuzla Island, please pass on the word to Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u7	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! Tonight, the heart of the outstanding Ukrainian winner of the Shevchenk Prize, author of many beautiful works by Vladimir Drozd, ceased to beat. A writer of a scale such as Vladimir Drozd could adorn any national culture. I think he is worthy of the Ukrainian Parliament to honor him with a moment of silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u9	Please honor your memory with a moment of silence. Please sit down. Orest Klimpush, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u10	I ask you to pass the word to Gabrieluk Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u11	Basil Gabrieluk, please. The People's Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, colleagues. If you remember, at the last meeting of the Supreme Council, when decisions were made, you and I decided that this Thursday. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I address you first! We have decided to vote today only for the consideration of the 2004 draft budget. And if we want to work today on the basis of the Supreme Council Rules, not the narrow agreements that you are talking about, let us act under the Supreme Council Rules and today only consider the draft budget for 2004. And if you are talking about a number of drafts, there is a need for voting today. They'll decide to consider it, we'll consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your help right away? More than that, he's the first deputy chairman of the Rules Committee. We voted to have a plenary meeting this morning and evening. And the deal is that we're going to be looking at the bulk of the budget. And I would ask the honourable Vasil Vasilovich not to accuse him of any violation of the Rules because there is no violation of the Rules. Paul Sulkowski, please. It's a faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u14	May I have the floor to Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u15	Repeat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to say and remind everyone that it's been two months of the autumn session actually. We have not considered one question in practice. So I ask you to stop this discussion. To vote in favour of the draft Decree on Tuesday's additional vote is the Vladimir Litvina project. In connection with Alexander Moroz’s statement, the draft Law on the Election of National Deputies should be withdrawn. Vote in favour of the Kosa Tuzla Decision and move to the next year’s draft budget, which must be supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u17	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u18	I'd like to give Simonenko to Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u19	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u20	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, the problem we are now facing again gives me reason and shows the urgent need to make a decision on the changes to the Rules and to take into account the offer of communists, specifically Martinyuk, to consider and vote on a project after a discussion in the Supreme Council. And finally, to finish everything that today is embarrassing the practical work of the Supreme Council. It's different. The events in the Kerchéne Strait once again confirm that the draft Law on elections on a proportionate basis needs to be urgently considered today and that it is possible for the law to be adopted in the first reading and to continue to make changes that are needed. And the third. I personally demanded that the government and the President, who was to return to Ukraine, should take concrete action on the conflict situation in the Kerchen Strait. They now claim to be considering and taking action today. I'd like to propose then: let's postpone the consideration of the draft Supreme Council Decision on the Kerchen Strait. Then we will consider when the President and the government will finally report on what they have done and what should be reflected in this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts. Time is running out. Announcing the draft Amending Regulation. Then we'll come to the question, discuss Tuzla's question, then you'll say, dear colleagues. Draft regulation amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the consideration and adoption of decisions on the issues under discussion. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, chairman of the committee. We've already taken five minutes, questions from the procedure. Now we're going to look at this question, then we're going to look at the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u22	Dear National Deputies! The Committee considered draft decisions of the Supreme Council to amend article 3.2. 1 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovic and the amendment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations introduced by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputy Lithuanian. I would like to remind you that in a long - suffering draft, the ruling of the People’s Deputy Martinyuk proposes the deletion of part two of article 3.2. 1 The Rules and thus the restrictions on voting should be lifted once a week when decisions are taken. And to vote in plenary after discussing the relevant issues, as provided for in part one of this article. This practice of consideration and decision-making was in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine prior to the change of January 21, 2000, and it had a rather effective impact on the quality of legislative work. This should be emphasized in particular. At present, the internal conflict between the first and the second parts of this article provides for a gap between the discussion and the decision - making process. The replacements proposed in the draft decrees made by the Head of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlović, to part two of article 3.2. 1 The Supreme Council Rules provide for a vote on the decisions taken and discussed twice a week, that is, on Tuesdays, in particular, and Thursdays. In addition, the prescribed draft decree also provides for changes to part 4 of article 2.5. 2 The Rules of the Supreme Council, according to which statements by the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups will be held on Wednesday, and on Friday they will be delivered by the Ukrainian national deputies. It should be noted that the initiative of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is undoubtedly valuable. But I'd say it's halftime and it doesn't solve the issues of significantly improving the efficiency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. And that is the need, as Vladimir Mikhailovich himself pointed out at the beginning of today’s plenary session, for us, that is, for Parliament. More than 300 drafts await consideration. I don't think there's a more convincing argument in favour of making the right decision. The committee decided to invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include the above-mentioned draft rulings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the agenda of the day session and to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! I am voting on a proposal by the Committee for the inclusion in the agenda and adoption today of the decision of the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since the Martinyuk project is included in the agenda. [[This is a document number 2584-1, this is a Lithuanian project.]] Is that what I'm saying? Please vote. My project is to vote. For inclusion in the agenda. [[10:20:47]] For-195 The factions. Once again, I remind the factions that are sitting, Raisa Vasilovna. I want to say again, in order for us to make a decision, we need to include in the order of the day a draft decision. Draft decree by Adam Martinyuk in order of the day. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the day's draft decision that I have made as Ukraine's national deputy for inclusion in the agenda. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[10:21:36]] For 269 Decision taken. The factions. And now, dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend article 3.2. 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation 2584 is the draft of the National MP Martinyuk. [[10:22:14]] For 205 The factions. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2584-1 amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a project of the People's Deputy of Lithuania. Please vote. Vote, please, let's take a step. [[10:22:58]] For-161 The decision is not taken. I'm asking for a date. I'm, uh, respected colleagues, it's about our arrangement. Except for one faction, none of the faction leaders objected. How can you continue to work and trust each other, please tell me?Oh, my God! How are we going to adopt 310 bills? I'm talking to the faction of "Regions" first! "Our Ukraine" - 0 Communists - 58, "Ukraine" - 0, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine" - 25, Social Democratic Party of Ukraine - 0, Sorry - 2, Socialist Party of Ukraine - 5, Yulia Timoshenko - 0, "European Choice" - 7, "The People's Government" - 14, "Democratic Initiatives" - 1, Agrarian Party - 16, NDP - 15, "The People's Choice" - 13, non-fractional - 5. [[united]] I put to the vote, please note, I will bet until you vote to unlock the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine, project number 2584-1 of the People's Deputies of Lithuania. Change the vote, cancel the vote. Head of the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, if then we're determined by the vote to do it again and we're supporting all the national MPs in practice, then we have to follow the ratings. The draft ruling by the people's deputy Martinyuk won 205 votes, that is, it should be put to you for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u25	Let's do it this way. Let the leaders of the factions of the consultation take the lead, and let us now move on to the issue of the Tuzla ruling. Then we'll go back to that question. I say again, if we have a deal, we have to make arrangements. Let's not look each other in the eye, in the eyes directly. Raisa Vasilovna, I'm looking you in the eye. Any other questions you need that you're interested in, I'm not going to put them to the vote either. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure parliamentary control over the regime of the state border of Ukraine in the area of Kosa Tuzla is under review. Matvienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you obviously had in mind the order to remove the threat first and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u27	Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. A draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to remove the threat to the territorial integrity of Ukraine, which resulted from the construction by the Russian Federation of a dam in the Kerchen Strait, is under consideration. Out of procedure, please. Adam Matrinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's follow procedure. So let's first include these questions, which are not in any order of the day, before we look at them today. Because they are not in the present system of things and thus could not be. Because we didn't vote for that. Let's vote for inclusion, and then we'll look at it. That's one thing. And the second. As the question arose for the MPs, for faction leaders it could have been different, for the MPs it came up unexpectedly today. The project only came up, and I think it's worth a break to discuss these statements so that they don't be accepted immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u29	Dear National Deputies! Let's do it this way, let's pay attention. Vote for inclusion and decision on these issues. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the text of the statement. We discussed it, it was practically on hand, and it was with the heads of factions of MP groups and factions. We agreed that she would be known. I'm sure she's famous. That's why I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 4294. Huh? Well, please cancel the vote. Simonenko with motive. We had just spoken, and Adam Ivanovich spoke out of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please don't be nervous. And realize that this question is really, really important to us. And everyone wants to make a responsible decision. So I draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues to the fact that the statement of the Supreme Council has already been made on this issue. Statement made, decision taken, approved, already put to the vote. I'm talking about the fact that the government and the President have made a commitment, literally today -- tomorrow, as much as possible. And with regard to the concrete actions that we either approve or, on the contrary, recommend to the Supreme Council what to do, we need to know information from both the government and the President. And the statement itself as a political document has been voted on. That's the first one. And secondly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, these projects haven't been discussed at all, and they don't know the committees, and they don't know the national MPs, and they don't know the profile committees. Then we should be able to take a break so that we can at least discuss the faction now and consult if we decide to include them in the agenda. But once again, the political statement has already been accepted by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u31	Thank you. Yuri Lucenko. Then Sergey Shevchuk. Then there's school. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u32	Lucenko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, first of all, we did not understand the situation around the actions of the Ukrainian State as a guarantor of the integrity. Yesterday you announced that you would be familiar with the leaders of factions and committees with Kuchma's oversecret decree regarding the situation in Kerchnya Bay. To date, this document is not known to factions or to the public. I think before we accept any claim not to be a puppet of this provocation that Kuchma and his Russian political scientists have planned, we'd like to know the text of the President's long-signed decree. Parliament can then be defined. We do not want to be held hostage by one of the leaders who has long since failed to perform his duties as a defender of Ukraine. We demand that today's prime minister in Ukraine take responsibility for protecting the territorial integrity of the state and that Kuchma remain a non-returner there in Brazil, sit there in parliamentary elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u33	Thank you. Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u34	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, indeed, the Parliament of Ukraine has accepted an application-appealing to the State Duma of Russia regarding the events in the Kerchen Strait. But if there was any reaction from our colleagues, Russian parliamentarians or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia to our statement, then it would be logical for the representatives of the Communist Party of Ukraine here not to accept another document. Because there's no reaction. Construction is under way. It is an escalation in the tension of this provocation, and we must make a new decision today, the text of which, I recall, is in agreement with all the leaders of the factions and groups, including the Communists. And yesterday’s parliamentary hearings are sufficient grounds for today’s inclusion and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u35	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u36	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that there was a meeting of all the heads of factions where it was decided that this decision, as a minimum, would be adopted, placed in the agenda and taken as a basis. You can talk about apps, you can talk about something to take away, but it's just necessary, because right now it's only 86 meters away from the state border of Ukraine. Blanders, or special barges, are on their way to the dam. The hostages are now our border guards, who are obliged to protect the state border of Ukraine. And for us, those who consider themselves Ukrainian, any border between Ukraine and another state is inviolable, and we have to protect it. The inactivity of the Supreme Council in this situation is that it may later be viewed as a betrayal of national interests. So I urge you to give it to me unanimously. everyone here who wants to defend Ukrainian sovereignty by decree of this declaration, to put it into the agenda, to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u37	Thank you. Honorable National MPs. Replica, please, Simonenko. Don't name names, don't name factions, don't name parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u38	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! First, when the non-conciliation board came up with a problem of adoption, we made it clear that making decisions about the problem in the Kerchen Strait was a recognition of the state of emergency. In this project, we must write straight away: "The government and the President have failed to fulfil their obligations under the Constitution." In this project, we have to write about the increasing tension: the resignation of the government, the resignation of the president. That's why I asked that we didn't see that text. And by the way, Anatoly Sergeiovich, you're confirming. There were a couple of names in the project, and there were different projects. So I insist, let's take a break and look at these projects, because we can't put the question to the vote right now. I stress once again, Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a very serious problem and we need to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? I want to say again, I want you all to make the arrangements that we're reaching at the level of the leaders of the MP groups and factions, the draft decision that was discussed in detail, we've been discussing it for two days in order to stick to it. But you have a decision to make, Your Honorable National Deputies. Then I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the draft decisions of Decrees 4294, 4292. Please vote. [[10:34:54]] For 361 Decision taken. The factions, please. I am voting on the basis of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 4294. Please vote. Based on the base. On the ground! Take down the vote. Calm down! Calm down! I say again, take your seats, don't run me, profile. Yes, please report to the committee head. 15 minutes to talk. Everybody, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! I ask you to calm down, and I would like us to be really consistent with those arrangements that were at the faction leaders' meeting. I'm the author. I am one of the authors of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u41	Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u42	I want to inform your colleagues that two formal messages. The first is that the authors of this decree, apart from the name Matvienka and Ostaša, are Drachewski, Kafarski, Bulba, Sitnik, Cloud, Chubarov, School. The other one. I would like to inform you that this motion for a ruling was discussed twice at the faction leaders' meeting, with the participation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania. A number of comments and suggestions were made, including the Communist factions included in the project. This project for faction managers is not new, this project is consistent. That's the first one. The other one. The project was also passed on to the government. We held consultations, the authors of this project, and agreed that the Supreme Council should state its position in this serious situation. The solidarity of the Supreme Council, the government and the President today should demonstrate our common interest in the non-violence of our borders and the preservation of territorial integrity. And whatever our attitude toward the government, to the President, we today have to understand that we are all united by Ukraine, and the problem that today is created as a result of the conflict in the Gulf of Kerchnya. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, everything that is said today from this rostrum is not entirely true, this project is prepared as compatible with faction leaders. And we're asking the authors that I called to put him to the vote and the acceptance. Moreover, we propose that this document be voted by the maximum number and that it does not divide us, MPs, left and right, because we will deal with each other and demonstrate that we are all members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and we care for Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to put this question to a vote by the authors of this bill and make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u43	Please ask the reporter. Five minutes. Calm down! Let's follow procedure so there's no charges. Question to the reporter, five minutes. Please sign up. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine. On board, please, the names that are registered, the national deputies. Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u44	Vladimir Bondarenko, "Our Ukraine", Victor Yushchenka's block. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, Prime Minister of Ukraine is present in the hall. There are some accusations that both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine are hiding from this issue and playing in silence. Today, here in this room, before us, who are elected by all Ukrainian citizens to the Ukrainian Parliament, I would like to hear the Prime Minister's word on this situation before we vote. Perhaps he is familiar with the President’s decision or decree, which today is kept secret not only from Ukrainian citizens but also from the legislative body. Thank you. Do you think that's possible?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u45	Anatoly Sergiyovich, let me inform you first. Dear colleagues, the decree on this subject is designed to inform all the leaders of factions, parliamentary groups, and committee leaders. That's the first one. And all the leaders of the MPs and factions are willing to get to know this document. One second. I say again, in proper order. The next moment. The president of Ukraine has interrupted his foreign mission and is now in Crimea. As for the government, we discussed the matter in detail. And I just have to express my regret that the leaders of the MP groups and factions, not all of them, have apparently been able to report on the joint meeting held by the Conciliation Council with the participation of the government in this matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u46	Vladimir Mikhailovich, let me add. What I'm saying is that 23 hours were spent building an intensive dam. Now the jobs are a little down, but they're not stopped. The other one. I want to say that the Prime Minister will be talking about it tomorrow, he'll obviously talk about it himself, he's meeting with the head of the Russian government with Cassianov. And what's more, our decision is appropriate, which clearly expresses the position of the Supreme Council and invites the government to act in accordance with our position. I think it will only increase his ability to negotiate effectively tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u47	Anatoly Grzezhev, a faction of Communists. Sorry, socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u48	Please give the floor to the leader of our party, Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u49	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, when we discussed this issue, we came to the conclusion that it was a provocation organized by our President, including to distract people like the Supreme Council today, teachers, standing, waiting for their questions to be resolved so that we could have something to do. I'm making a proposal and I'm asking Anatoly Sergeiovich: how do you see if you edit the first two points in this way. The first point is to recognize Russia's actions from building a dam in Kerchny Strait as a non-communal act, period. We'll continue to deal with everything. The other one. Ask the President of Ukraine to carry out his duties, to guarantee the sovereignty of the State and the territorial integrity of Ukraine. And the third, fourth, and fifth paragraphs should be left as they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u51	Thank you. San Sanic, I think with regard to provocation, obviously we should support the decision made by our Ukraine to create a special commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council. By the way, this question will not be over, the questions of the watershed, the question of the Azov Sea and the Black Sea remain, so it is worth supporting, forming such a commission, and continuing to work according to its information, and let it learn about provocation. The tension that we call one provocation, and the other that we don't consider provocative, today that's the first one. The other one. Regarding the item you're offering, Alexander Alexandrovich. I showed you this project myself yesterday, you made your revisions, I counted them. I made it in line with our agreement. That's why I would ask. Clearly, we will never accept the perfect document because there is no limit to perfection. This document is very balanced and holds back the main point. So there is a proposal to vote it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u52	Valentin Matviev. There's still time, dear fellows, there's still time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u53	Well, thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please give the floor to the leader of the Petr Mikolaiovich Simonek faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u54	Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u55	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, and I address our voters first. Before making a decision, the faction of Communists comes out of the undisputed belief that politicians are provoking and warring nations. And, dear fellows, forget it! Why am I talking? Because the project that you're asked to vote on is the following. Yesterday we were just holding parliamentary hearings and talking about the need to develop Ukrainian-Russian relations. And the first paragraph says, "What forces Ukraine to look at the current practice of relations with the Russian Federation." That's the first one. In the second paragraph at all, please read what the Supreme Council accepts: "To request the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of state sovereignty -- and further -- to use all available means to protect territorial integrity and the sovereignty of the state." The intactness of the Ukrainian State. So, we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, I want us to understand that if this were the case in any parliament of the world, I think they would vote a hundred percent. The word "forces" does not mean that we view them, but we warn that in a unilateral order of action by any State in relation to Ukraine's national interests, we are required to act adequately. We have no right to serve the national interests of any state, except for the country's own name.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u58	Thank you, time's up. Sit down, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues, I think I must agree here with the proposal by Alexander Alexander Moroz, who here sounded to write the first paragraph in this way: "Acknowledgment of Russia's actions by building a dam in the Kerchen Strait as a non-communal act," and put a dot. In order for us to vote in a consolidated manner on this matter. I think we should make a proper offer. We'll vote then. 15 minutes to discuss, please log in. So let's maybe vote on the basis, and then we'll put it out. 15 minutes of discussion, all right, let's do it quietly, 15 minutes, please. Sergey Shevchuk while the recording is coming. Light up on the board, please. And Sergei Shevchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u59	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. We understand your desire to accept a balanced document, and that's why we've assessed your position on a 15-minute discussion. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let us first take this determination as a basis and then logically improve it by way of discussion. Please provide first acceptance as the basis for this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u60	Please, Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u61	Thank you. Please give the floor to the leader of the faction of the People's Democratic Party of Valery Desert.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I want to explain the first point. Today, no one is questioning Ukrainian-Russian relations, and we must deepen them. But it is stated in this paragraph that we should not be so irresponsible about these relationships. [[This can be treated this way.]] We need to deepen our work politically and economically so that we know what is really going on there. So there are no flaws. And I suggest we stop the discussion and put a decision to the vote, and move on in the daytime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u63	People's Deputies of Leščinski, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u64	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a proposal for a vote. All positions agreed. Stop talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u65	Alexander Moroz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that this must be a balanced and rigorous document that will be clear to everyone, first and foremost to the citizens of Ukraine and to our Russian neighbours. Therefore, without doubting the part of the decision, I propose that the operative part of the decision should give an assessment of the situation and the actions of specific legal persons in Ukraine. And that's why the first point is to end with the word "act," which is to acknowledge Russia's actions in building a dam in the Kerchen Strait as a non-communal act. This will result from taking action that will be dictated by the situation. The other one. In the paragraph, ask the President of Ukraine to insert such words as "the fulfilment of his duties as guarantor of national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine". You can put a dot here, you can end it here, but without a second sub-paragraph, because it repeats the first sub-paragraph. The third, fourth, and fifth paragraphs are left in the text proposed by the committee. In general, vote as a basis. But once again, and what is happening today: and the President's return from Brazil to Ukraine, and finally his appearance where he should have been long ago, though, true, he was there for three months, and all of this, there is a suspicion, an agreement,--is evidence of the specific, order nature of this provocation. And I think the people in Ukraine have already gotten a good look at it. So once again, I insist that Parliament's position here should be clear, clear, patriotic, of course, and it should give first and foremost assessments of actions, political assessments of the actions of legal persons, particularly the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and those responsible for ensuring the stability and territorial integrity of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u67	National Deputy Babourin, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u68	Baburin, the Communist faction. I have something to say, but please pass the word to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u69	Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u70	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I once again draw your attention to the importance of this document, both in terms of assessing developments today in the Kerchen Strait and in terms of the prospects for the project. Once again, I would like to emphasize that we Communists understand this is a provocation. And politics provokes, and people fight. That is why we take this decision and take the project so seriously. Second. We are well aware that the Russian people, as well as the Ukrainian people, are making oligarchies and mafias. Thus, the policy of these oligarchic groups is defined and for a particular problem. Fourth. The main reason for this provocation, which is called conflict, is that it has failed primarily in domestic policy and in Ukraine and in Russia and the upcoming elections. We Communists understand that, too. Next. We understand that the draft, which is being tabled, gives the President the right to a second paragraph, and I ask you to read carefully, although Matvienko here has refuted the introduction of a state of emergency and the use of weapons there. Because it says, "Use all available resources" is allowed by the President. That means the President orders the fire to be opened as commander-in-chief. We can't go through with this today. And at a time that relates to the fact that today this provocation is still confusing, I think, as an option, not only to tear down the single economic space of the signing or ratification of the agreement, but not only to accelerate Ukraine's entry into NATO, but it seems to me to introduce a state of emergency in order to end the presidential campaign and not to allow the presidential campaign to begin today, but, in fact, an emergency, to leave Kuchma as President for an indefinite period of time. Dear colleagues! I'm going to ask you convincingly the third, fourth and fifth paragraphs do not need to be included for one simple reason at all. The matter is that the Cabinet of Ministers is already working on this issue. [[third paragraph]] Let's move on. There's no way to get the money out. This year, Kabmin has only a reserve fund, and others have no right to use it because it is a change in the budget. So you can use the back-up fund. All the rest of what matters is " To deliver, to speak " is after we have exhausted, I mean to speak with international organizations when we have exhausted the entire limit of domestic resources. Until we've exhausted them. And I insist once again, let us hear the information of both Kabmin after the negotiations, and the President in order to take a decision. And the last. The draft order must be adopted from two paragraphs First. "Recognize Russia's actions by building a dam in Kerchin Strait as an unfriendly act." Period. And the second. "Request the President of Ukraine as a guarantor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u71	Thank you. Stepan Cloud. Stephen Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u72	Please give the floor to a doctor of law, an expert in international law, a national deputy, Sergio Golovat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u73	Sergey Headate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable Government and Colleagues! I would like to address here personally maybe 2-3, except for those I have named, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, the first President of Ukraine; Sergey Osika, who taught international law at our university and taught students how to divide and border, how to protect territory; Alexander Zadrodzny, who was also a representative of the President of the Supreme Council, I know what "international law" means. Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk remembers well when he was driving as head of state to all SND congregations and then there were many problems of the unsettled, taking on a mission of the Supreme Council, which fixed some very important conceptually legal things that made it easier and easier for the government, and even Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk as President, because he said, "I have the Supreme Council. This is the people of Ukraine. What can I do as President when they decide?".. So, we have a big problem with the Azov Sea, which is conceptually conceptual! - nowhere is Ukraine's fixed position in any document that Ukraine does not recognize the concept of the Azov Sea as a shared, shared inland waters of two states. Understand! And Osaka will confirm, and the Roadway, that there's no such thing as "common inland waters." It's all about saying, "The Donetsk region is a common territory of Russia and Ukraine." The legal status between the water supply of inland waters and the land where the sovereignty of the State is not different. That's why I would suggest, because since 1998, this concept has been required and it forms a political and legal basis for Russia's actions today. And the right one, he says, "We do everything in our territory. That's right! Because it is his territory of his state and does not have to be condemned by Russia for these actions, they are acting in accordance with their national sovereignty, in accordance with international law. The only thing they're doing is causing us potential damage. I propose that the Supreme Council make two sentences. First. The Supreme Council of Ukraine claims that Ukraine is an unacceptable concept of the Azova Sea as a common inland waters of two nations. The other one. Ukraine is of the view that all issues concerning the maritime boundaries of Russia and Ukraine in the Azov Sea must be resolved solely on the basis of internationally recognized law and under the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. This is what corresponds to the President's decree, the commission he gave to the government, it completely meets and meets. So we're going to get out of the political deadlock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u75	Smilenenko, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u76	Thank you. I support the proposal to end the discussion and put the matter to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u77	Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, we have worked out the decision in detail at the meeting of all the leaders of the factions of the Supreme Council. No one doubts that after reading and studying all the events of the situation in the Kerchny Strait yesterday, such a statement is timely. I suggest. Dear colleagues, there is no limit to perfection. We can lose a few more hours now, and the agenda is very long. Put to the vote and support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u79	Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, faction of the Social Democratic Party united We've made a deal, dear fellows, 15 minutes. Time's up. If you make a decision, we'll stop the debate. Please, Leonid Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u80	Dear National Deputies! At a time when the nation or state was being despised, the political elite united to protect honor and dignity. And I propose to stop the abuse of the Ukrainian people. Each person has his own position, and each faction has its own position. There is a need to vote that although there is no ridicule in Parliament before the Ukrainian people and in front of the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u81	Dear National Deputies! Corrections, clarifications were made during the discussion. So first, I'm putting in place a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to remove the threat to Ukraine's territorial integrity resulting from the construction by the Russian Federation of a dam in the Kerchen Strait. Please vote. [[11:00:21]] For 372 Decision taken. I'm voting on Alexander Frost's proposal. Please listen carefully. In paragraph one, paragraph one. Recognize Russia’s actions in building a dam in the Kerchen Strait as an unfriendly act. Then the text that goes is deleted. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:00:57]] For 109 The decision is not taken. Alexander Moroz’s second suggestion, I ask you to listen carefully: to request the President of Ukraine, to continue inserting, to fulfill his duties as a guarantor of State sovereignty, to proceed with the text. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make up my mind. And a dot. Everything else should be taken. [[11:01:25]] For-173 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal of the People's Deputy. Sergey Petrovich, I ask you to make it public again. Oh, it's written down. Let's read it, let's go. Say it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u82	The proposal consists of the following two sentences: on the first page of the final page, the Supreme Council of Ukraine claims that Ukraine is not acceptable to the concept of the Azov Sea as a common inland waters of the two nations. Period. That's the first sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u83	I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of the national deputy just made by Sergey Petrovich Headate. I'd like to make up my mind. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:02:26]] For-164 The decision is not taken. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u84	Second sentence: Ukraine follows that all issues relating to maritime delimitation in the Azov Sea must be resolved solely on the basis of universally recognized principles of international law and under the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u85	I'll bet you a vote on the proposal of the Second People's Deputy. Please vote. [[11:03:10]] For 297 Correction accepted. What's your offer? Peter Mikolaiovich? Well, give her a ring. One minute, come on. I want us to adopt by consensus 400 votes for the amendment. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u86	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have proposed that this two - paragraph ruling be made up. The first one we voted on, and we put a dot after the word "uncomfortable act." And the second item in that edition, proposed by Frost, is to ask the President of Ukraine to ensure the fulfilment of his duties as State guarantor of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, and to place a dot. Everything else is at the second point. And then there's the third point. In view of the fact that the government is already in the business, they will be disbursed from the contingency fund. The fourth and fifth to final negotiations with the Russian Federation are also to be withdrawn. That's only two points left in the decision. And the Communist faction is ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz proposed such an amendment. We voted her. I want to remind you once again: "To request the President of Ukraine to perform his duties. the guarantor of State sovereignty and territorial integrity" and remove two sub-items, right, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich? But leave the rest, Peter Mikolaiovich? So I, my dear colleagues, want to say that we voted on this amendment, it didn't pass. You insist that the third, fourth, and fifth paragraphs be removed. I am voting on the offer of the Communists to withdraw the third, fourth, fifth, paragraph. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[11:05:00]] For-68 It's all working, dear fellows. I'm voting on the whole draft Supreme Council ruling number 4294. [[11:05:27]] For 369 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, according to factions, it is by factions. Please proceed. Dear colleagues, you've seen it all. Gmir's national deputy from the procedure. And now for the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u88	Vladimir Mihajlovich, respected, we have now voted, firstly, in favour of breaking up diplomatic relations with Russia. Because the previous practice of relations with the Russian Federation is normal diplomatic relations. If it's something else, you have to explain. Secondly, we voted in favour of inviting the President of Ukraine to use weapons against Russia. What else does "external resources" mean? To love Ukraine does not mean that respectable colleagues fight for Kuchma to live up to his economic adventures, and Putin has won another presidential election. To love Ukraine and to love Kuchma and Putin is very different. I congratulate you on those decisions that will disgrace Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed to consider and to make a decision regarding the establishment of a commission. I am voting, if we have no objection, on the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure parliamentary control over the regime of the state border of Ukraine in the area of Kos Tuzla. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said, on the ground. One minute, cancel the vote. Mishura, Valery Mishur, please. Well, please! If there is a candidate and he refuses, does he have the right to speak? May.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u90	Mishur, the Communist faction. I will ask John the Rabbit to calm down and not to pressure anyone. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I stand for the territorial integrity of the state of Ukraine, but I stand against the oppression of the situation on this border, and I stand against, say, the territorial integrity of the state of Ukraine. And I strongly protest that, let's say, the composition of the commission is shaped like this. It is not in agreement with me or with the leadership of my faction that I will be included in this commission, as well. I'm not going to take part in the work of a commission, an ostrich who's formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u91	I'm voting on the basis of the draft Decree 4292. Please vote. [[11:08:38]] For 340. What are the objections or suggestions regarding the candidates? The proposal instead of Matthew Anatoly Sergey the Chief included. Is there no objection? What other proposals regarding candidates? I am voting on the adoption of a decision in general. Please vote. Number 4292. There's a vote coming. All of it. Well, I put out a vote, what do you want? [[11:09:18]] For 310 Please, Simonenko. Dear colleagues, don't attack. When the voting process began, there were no regulations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u92	Vladimir Mihajlovich, Simonenko, Communist faction. I can assure you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, will calm down. And if the faction specifically said that the question was not agreed upon, and there is a problem, it withdraws its candidature, and with us, with the faction, no one has consulted. But we can, but we have a probable right before your vote, as you put it, to make proposals for a candidature. Why do you deprive the right faction? Well, you can't have Vladimir Mikhailovich either.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u93	No need, no one takes away the right faction, no need. Please, let's make suggestions. We vote, let's make proposals. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u94	Simonenko, the Communist faction. We offer Mironek Viktor Andreevich, he's a special deputy from this district, he knows the situation and he can figure it out. Yeah, instead of Mishura. Please turn on Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u95	Is there no objection? People’s MP Mironenko is part of the commission instead of Valery Mishura. All right, it's already been decided. It comes in, what a need. Well, let's vote, include Mironek instead of Valery Mishura. Please vote. Please vote. [[11:10:51]] For 359 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We, as agreed, are back to the draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Rules. May I have your attention, please? In order of coming, I place two rulings on the vote. May I have your attention, please? First decision. Draft decision of the Supreme Council to amend article 3.2. 1 Supreme Council regulation No. 2584 of the People’s Deputy Martinyuk I'll put it to a vote. There's a vote coming. [[11:11:40]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation number 2584-1, draft of the People's Deputy of Lithuania. Please vote. Adam Ivanovich, let's vote, take the first step, I voted. [[11:12:09]] For-183 A break of 30 minutes is announced. Faction leaders and groups, please gather in the head office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u96	The Council is still in office in the Head of the Supreme Council. All the faction leaders are here. No, no, we'll work. And now we're on break until 12:30. And then we'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u97	Invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our work. We have stopped on both the issue and the decision to make changes to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking for your attention. Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain my position once again. We came from the fact that we need to be able to make decisions right after the discussion. However, since the proposal by the people’s deputy Martinyuk was put to the vote several times, it was not supported in this regard. After meeting the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, I've agreed, I want to emphasize once again, the agreed project that was proposed for us to use Tuesday to consider the issues and immediately make the decisions. But if we suddenly have questions that we will not be able to vote on, say, Friday, so that we can make a decision on Tuesday. We need to make a decision on 310 bills today. Tell us, when can we make these decisions? However, a position that was agreed upon that did not give rise to objections was not supported. So after the consultations, I ask your attention, distinguished faction leaders, I will now put draft regulations to the vote in order for them to come. The first draft of the ruling of the People's Deputy Martinyuk, which is scheduled to return to the previous practice in 2000, is that, after considering each bill, it is immediately decided upon. Unless a decision is taken under the first draft of the Martiniuk People's MP, I will put to the vote my proposal, which concerns that we will use Tuesday to consider issues and make decisions on them, as well as to make decisions on issues that we will discuss and will not be able to vote on for technical reasons. Do you understand the offer? I am voting on the first draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 2584 of the People's Deputy Martinyuk, to amend article 3.2. 1 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine [[12:43:51]] For 209 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Dear National Deputies! Since the proposal of the National MP Martinyuk has not been made, let's at least take a step to get to the bottom of the road so that we can expand the possibilities for reviewing drafts and making decisions. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 2584-1. This is a project by the Lithuanian National MP to consider and make decisions on Tuesday. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:44:58]] For 379 Thank you for your support. The factions, please. Bondarenko, please. Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u98	Dear friends, look how we've made this decision -- we've found a common language, and Parliament will work more effectively than that, that's for sure. Let's take another day, for example, Wednesday, and then we'll get to what we had to do. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, start the project on Wednesday! And we'll support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now working further in accordance with our Rules. I want us to consult now and move on to the next question. We agreed earlier on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to re-read the two bills on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. The deal was, no decision. I would like to ask the national deputies Stepan Bogdanovich Havrish, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka and Anatoly Matvienka, who were entrusted by the Conciliatory Council with the drafting of the decree, the processing of it and the submission for consideration. Meanwhile, we could continue our consideration of the budget issue. By procedure, please, Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm doing the procedure. Please tell me, is there any limit to re-imposing laws when they are not adopted? Let's set the limit that we're voting today. Coming through, coming through. It doesn't work -- we're putting the risk at risk for a moment, at least for this session. Well, you can't have the same law on a daily basis when we're not considering bread laws, budget laws, others. Let's ask people what can the Supreme Council do in this mode?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u101	Please, Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I am in charge of my comrade Pehoti. Since we are also human, we say that the decision of the Supreme Council to deal with these issues can be considered. For what you say is contrary to what you have already begun to say. Because this may also apply to the budget and other laws adopted by the Supreme Council. If there is a need, we need to return several times. It's a rule. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we agreed that we would put to the vote a draft decision on the adoption of the draft law on elections by Deputy Klukkowski and others. And the task of the task force, or the committee, is more loyal, given the proposals made in Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish's project, then to bring it up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council after further work. I ask and urge that these issues be addressed in such a sequence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a point before Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish, then Stephen Bogdanovich, and then Peter Mikolaiovich. We agreed this way, and it was a decision of the Conciliation Council that the two bills should be re-readed, in the draft decree on this point, by determining what we want to see in these bills. Your proposal, which was to accept as a basis, Alexandre Alexandrovich, the Klukkowski, Rudzkowski bill, was not supported by the Conciliation Council when discussing the positions of the Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish project. Stepan Gavrish, please. I'm sorry, Hubsky. Then Gavrish. Then Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. There are only two bills: 3425, 3425-1. In a vote last week, however, Law 3425-3 received 179 votes from Ukrainian national deputies and took its place. And we believe that he must also be put to the vote today. Because in doing so, we ignore the will of those who voted for it. I am well aware that some forces fear that he will be voted on today. And that's a huge probability. After all, we are well aware that so many national deputies will support him. But given that every MP has the right to vote as he wants, and every MP has the right to vote in favour of any law that is in order of the day, and since 2 other laws are in the vote, we strongly propose that this law be put to the vote as well, because it is ignoring the will and the MPs and the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u105	Stepan Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. I would like to say in this session room that we had 21 numbers on the Conciliation Board in the Head of the appropriate agreement on the passing of the bill on the election of national deputies in the session hall. We agreed that we would make a decision to re-read the two bills separately: the Rudzikowski and Gavrish bills -- so that the working group, with the participation of members of the committee, as well as the authors of the bills, could work out a single coherent project that would suit the political interests of all the subjects of the sessional room at the first majority MPs. This arrangement was signed orally, as it were. All the faction leaders, no one's refusing it. In addition, we agreed that this issue would be synchronized with a certain agreement in which we foresee a synchronization of the adoption of the Electoral and Political Reform Act, which makes sense. We also emphasize that there is no urgent need to argue through the session room any single bill until it is in line with the interests of all who sit in it, as my colleague Hubsky's speech also testifies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u107	Peter Simonenko, then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, Simonenko, the Communist faction. In fact, we had two days of discussion about how to unlock the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and we proposed different solutions to this problem, including the one that Vladimir Mikhajlovich had previously said about, with regard to preparing the draft and these bills, and sending each other on a re-reading or two, both of them as a basis. What I'd like to say about that. We have proposed a reform of the political system, and we Communists stand for reform of the political system only when we adopt the new Electoral Law. Everything else that is meant to unite a few bills with different ideologies is simply impossible. This is a deliberate introduction into a stalemate situation throughout the Supreme Council. We'll never get out of it, because they're really different projects. What we'd like to propose. First, in the first reading, vote on the bill that we talked about. And in preparing for second reading, take into account proposals from the draft law of Gavrish and the Supreme Council regarding this decision. Once again, I would like to suggest that we understand that the law must be adopted in the first reading today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u109	Thank you. Valérie Assadchev, then Yooffe and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to address you and remind the deputies. We had this case in our previous cadence when we were looking for understanding of the Law on Courtship, you remember, and it happened that the Supreme Council voted for two bills at the same time. Then they did not know what to do with it and suffered to this day. I'd very much like you to put the bill to a very clear vote. It's not possible to combine a proportional system with a major system, and you don't have to do that. And so it doesn't work out, that when we look for consensus, we'll find the nonsensus. I'd like to say that we're clear. Proportional, then, will be the supply of Havrish. We will vote, and others will put it there. But every bill makes it absolutely clear to vote that it doesn't work out with the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u111	Julius Jooffe, Dragnibok, Turkov, and we will finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! We all understand here that the motivation for our behavior on this issue depends on what we want. We all understand this isn't the first time that we've never been able to get through or sell a separate bill. So a group of Dashutin authors, Yooffe, Gavrish offers a compromise. How is the law proposed by Rudzkowski, the Keykovsky, different from ours? Only one: both there and there the list is recognized by the party or the block, but the order in the list in our bill is determined from below by the rating and nothing else. So when there's only one thing that's going to be introduced before that bill that the rating is going to be the order of the list, I think we're going to find an understanding, and the project is going to be accepted. There'll be nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u113	Thank you. Pull over, then Turkov and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! An extremely difficult situation today and a critical one in Hmelnick. Since June of this year, there has been no change in the agricultural land of the Proskurov agro-firm near the Hmelnicka Agroport without a change in the target destination of the land without ecological expertise, without the approval of the construction project, without the construction of the clean-up plant, the "Division" shopping centre is actually illegal. There's an offer. Today, to put the Supreme Council ruling 4272 on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the verification of the legality and violation of the construction of the Trade and Service Centre "Department" in the area of the Rususian Rural Council of the Hmelnick district of the Hmelnick district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u115	Alexander Turchinov. All right, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let's speak honestly to each other as it really is. Of the laws proposed, there is only one about a proportional system. All the others are different modifications that talk about elections in major districts. [[Hidden, Uncovered]] Therefore, honourable fellow Members, today’s vote should clearly show the sincerity of those who have signed under political reform for a proportional system. And it is the vote of the specific law of Rudzikowski, the only one representing a proportional system that the Supreme Council can only be adopted and will be the criterion for further political reform in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u117	Infantry is a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u118	They turned on the microphone. Oh, we're on, thank you. I'd like to say the following. In the past, there was a Nosov who gave an interpretation of the Rules. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz took on this function. I think it would be appropriate if all interpretations were given by the Ethics and Rules Committee. That's the first one. And the second. I would like the same committee to understand why I, as a national deputy, and the people's deputies from major districts, a group of Socialist deputies are preventing us from carrying out our direct duties as MPs. There is an article in the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy and Responsibility for Not being a Obstacle to Deputies. So I insist that it be said how many times we still have to consider this law in the first reading until it passes in the text that we are offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u119	Thank you, Honourable People's Deputies! Let's do it this way. May I have your attention, please? Because it's thoughts. Please, we'll be out of here in no time. Focus, please! Please, Alexander Alexandrovich. Alexander Aleksandrovitch gives up the replica. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again, there was an agreement that we were voting for two bills, sending them back to the first reading -- I remind you! Then, dear fellows. No, we're going another way! Then, in order for us to consider the fifth number, we vote on the sixth. This proposal is neither accepted nor supported. In order to maintain a normal working environment, I will now put bills to the vote in turn, we will vote, then we will go to work. Is there no objection? I'll put it to a vote. Attention, please. - Bill number 3425 of the people's MP Rudzkowski and other colleagues to be accepted as a basis. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:59:44]] For 202 The solution. The factions, please. Now we're going to vote on the second draft of the national deputy Gavrish and other national deputies. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I am voting for the adoption of the draft law on the election of Ukrainian national MPs, number 3425-1 of the national deputy Gavrish. [[13:00:34]] For 115 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. May I have your attention, please? I'm voting on the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies, number 3425-3, honorary colleagues, the national deputy of Hubsky and others. [[13:01:25]] For-69 Dear colleagues, so. Just a minute. So no bill received support in 226 votes. I invite the leaders of the MP groups and factions during the break to meet with us and discuss what we will do to unlock the issue. So that we can prepare and accept the agreed position formulated in the form of a corresponding decision. The draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2004 is now under consideration. Reporter Sergey Teryohin. Is there a Teryohin? Let him report from the scene, tell him. Report from the scene, please. Well, let's work. We'll work it out during the break. Turn on the microphone. Dear colleagues, please, we'll find a solution. Well, report from the scene, please. Turn on the microphone of the national deputy Teryochin. Well, dear fellows, we're not going to achieve anything, please! We will settle during the break and return to the consideration of the matter. Come on, let's get to work. Please! I'm asking you to persuade the national deputy Teryochin to report back from the scene. Well, dear faction leaders, please, let's find some gold inside. Well, we can't do that if we don't. Let's keep working. During the break, we will arrange and prepare an appropriate solution. Please. I'm asking the heads of the MPs to respond to your national MPs. Please, Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, with full respect for all the norms of democracy and the minority's right to defend their interests. We all understand that. But you can't protect your interests into an absurd blockage, a permanent blockage of the work of the Supreme Council. We've just heard about the crop failure in Ukraine. We've been trading. Bread for the people. There is a mass of laws that, if not adopted, will lead to a tense situation with prices and bread in general. We don't accept the budget. Teachers stand before the Supreme Council. There are people waiting for the budget. We still have a lot of questions to settle. What are we doing, colleagues?Oh, my God! What, tomorrow, 2006?Oh, my God! It's a long way from the election. Why do we put our own interests ahead of those of the people, the State, and all those who sent us here? I ask you to remove the blockade and do not put the entire Supreme Council in line with the interests of a small group of national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u121	Matvienkov. Then Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u122	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to ask everyone to calm down and listen carefully. Powerful situations have never solved any issues, any methods. And today, defending our position, or the rightness of our views, by grabbing a microphone near the rostrum, is probably not the best argument or argument. I'd like to invite those people who are so tightly grasping at the rostrum and standing around it to go to the voters and talk and ask what they want? What kind of electoral system they want. Have they seen you in the constituencies? Why don't you go talk to them? That's the first one. Second question. In order to unlock this situation, I propose that a conciliatory commission be set up now, which will be tasked with drafting two bills: the first bill drafted on the basis of a proportional system, but given the place on the list, depending on the ranking of the deputy in a particular district, is the first option; the second option is a bill, which would be 25 to 75, and so on, a step towards changing the system. And bring the agreed options to the table. Now keep working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u123	Basil Nadrag. Then there's Alexander Frost. Well, we can't all come out!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u124	Respectable colleagues, respected Ukrainians. I have been authorized by the People's Choice Group, which is dominated by majors, to make one small but, in our view, a very principled statement. We are now, as it is, unfortunately not the first Thursday, witnessing when 20 people believe that their problem, and in this case the problem of proportional elections and the ideology of those elections, is the most important thing for that State today, for that people. Well, we can't agree with that. We are deeply convinced that democracy cannot and must not even be understood. Because if democracy, when 20 people don't let the other 400 work, it's not democracy anymore, it's something else. And so today, here's what my colleagues have authorized me to say: no wish -- then, Vladimir Mihajlovich, we ask you: tell us where and when we can work on the budget and other laws that everyone needs today, not the 20th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u125	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u126	Dear colleagues: both those who block the rostrum and those who do not block, but in principle agree with what is being done, because we need to adopt another electoral law. And I answer to my colleague Matviyenko. I had over 3,000 electoral meetings during my parliamentary activities. And I've chosen three majors. I can say that it's not normal in a state where voters vote for each other, it's governed by others. The 2002 elections confirmed this. And finally, the President himself has come to the conclusion that the existing system of power, including the electoral system, is a brake for Ukraine's development. And there wouldn't be this grain disaster, how responsible the authorities would be, if we didn't lie to people about the fact that we have enough grain in our possession to know how many more last year, if we didn't have President's decree to export grain last year. And this year there are no decrees on the import of grain. And now everyone's pointing their finger at the government about what you see, we're in such trouble with grain, they don't really want to look at the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u127	Thank you. Sergey Ivanov. Now we're going to make decisions with our respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u128	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have the impression that you are an orderly, gentle man.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u129	It's not an impression, it's a reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u130	It's real. Here you are, just putting up with this situation all the time. You're forced to break the Rules, and you're on your way. If we have already considered this law at the same session last week and it has not passed, do we have the right to re-vote it under the Rules? Nope. And the last. If there are forces today that block the rostrum that do not need to adopt economic laws, close the session and dissolve Parliament, close the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u131	Yes, Simonenko Peter and now there will be an offer to get out of the situation that will set you all straight. I said, "Peter Simonenko's microphone."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u132	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear voters, I would like to explain the position of the Communist faction. We first of all advocate your right to choose. And I would like to draw your attention. You remember when you were forced to collect signatures for whom to vote, you were threatened to quit your job, you were warned by your teachers if you didn't gather a parent's congregation, we'd kick you out of work. Doctors were forced to drive the sick out of the hospital if they did not vote as they wished. Some of our colleagues are now saying that the budget needs to be adopted. Yes, these statements today are a lie and a lie because every budget over the past 12 years is less and less allocated to social programmes. It's getting poorer and worse. In fact, according to the people, they have, in their pocket, a laundry on the ark today. What are we talking about here, the budget? Today it is necessary to change the political system in the country, to give the citizen the right to choose and to choose, in the end, not according to the direction of the administrator or the policeman, the prosecutor or the judge. At the end of the day, when we decide that the country should have the predominant democratic principles.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u133	Dear National Deputies! So let's either vote in favour of discussing this issue or work on it. I have an offer to make you all. In view of the fact that we cannot agree, the three bills will be sent to read again, then let each faction, the group will determine for which it will vote, then we will review them in the session room. Right? I am voting for re-reading the draft Laws on the Election of People's Deputies number 3425, 3425-1, 3425-3, three bills for re-reading the first reading. [[Rudkowski]] [[Stepan Gavrish]] [[of the People's Deputy of Hubski]] Please vote. And we'll unlock the work, I think, that way. [[13:14:04]] For-22. The decision is not taken. Then let's go on with what's going on. You're good with that, aren't you? Let's keep going. I'm announcing a draft Law. Please report. Create conditions to report. Please, come on. I offered a normal way out. Since there's another bill by the National Parliament on elections, then we'd be looking at four, not three bills, all of them. That's what I'm suggesting, and you don't want to. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2004 is being announced for consideration. Please, let's work. Well, I don't see any other way out, dear fellows. And during the break, we'll hold the Conciliation Council. Victor Lavrentiovich Musienko, Musiak, please judge us all and we will no longer be discussing here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u134	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Indeed, it may be necessary to make a final decision. In view of the fact that all those who have proposed these three options come from a close link between these bills and political reform, I propose, by some modification of my previous proposal. Dear colleagues, we have a temporary special commission to work on draft amendments and additions to the Constitution. You know, she drafted the bill, developed it, we sent it to the Constitutional Court. I say, let's make a decision not to create a special new commission, and on this committee, we make a commitment to these bills to take and make a proportional election bill, putting it on the table, it's supposed to be a proportional election bill. And there's nothing more to come up with. There are three bills, proposals, if anyone, please put them there and we'll make this bill quietly, quietly, as it should be in Parliament and we'll take the bill on. The law on elections on a proportional basis. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u135	Dear colleagues! That's a nice offer. To relieve the tension to unlock the process, let's make any decisions. Let us entrust the commission that was headed, co-headed by Hennaday Vasiliev and Alexander Frost. To develop and implement a coordinated project on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. And we'll keep moving. Let's do this. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote. Vote, please. Change the vote. Victor Lavrentiovich Musiaka made a proposal that we should entrust the commission that we had worked on a draft law to amend the Constitution, to entrust this commission with taking all the bills, working on and introducing a coordinated draft on the election of Ukrainian national deputies. And we'll be monitoring her work. Please vote in favour of this proposal. Let's find a way out. There's no other way out. Please vote. Please, support me, Your Honor. [[13:17:59]] For-147 Ivan Plush, please. Then there's the empty tank.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u136	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You saw before the previous vote 22 deputies voted in favour of the proposal. This indicates that the MPs do know the Rules, which prohibits a single decision on three bills. And you don't do it anymore because it's not on your face. If you want to read again, you should put in place those bills that require the legislative initiative that introduced it. You agree with them. If they do good, you have the right to re-read all these bills because of your background with the Supreme Council. But make decisions on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u137	I've done it several times before, Ivan Stepanovich. Thank you for reminding me of what I have to say. And thank you for being so clear right now, you've figured out what the rules are. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u139	I'm sorry, not Baranowski, but I'd say Desert Tenko, and then Baranowski. Excuse me, please. A wastebasket, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an offer. I'd like to ask the Chief of the Supreme Council that on those bills, and we agreed to do so at a meeting of MPs and factions who have not received support, not to put the vote to a vote so as not to create a conflict in the room. Next. We from the faction of the People's Democratic Party support the proposal to hold proportional elections. And next time, we will definitely vote for it. But if we do, we will support and support the implementation of political reform. We're going to have two people working for Oleg Zarubinski and Vitaly Ołupko who are willing to work on a proportional election bill that supports most of the national MPs. If the session is not unlocked now, I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, ask you to close the session, hold and start holding the Coordination Council of Deputies and factions and agree to work for the next plenary week. Not to be tormented by people who listen to us, who look at us, including national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u141	Alexander Baranowski, I announce. Then Michael Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u142	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, you can see that the bill of Rudzikowski-Kluczkowski has been voted on most of all. From the faction of the majority come certain suggestions to this law, additions, appropriate, so to speak, changes and so forth. Who prevents you from accepting in the first reading and in the second reading so that you can make your suggestions to whom you will have them? And this will unlock the work of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. And the second. Well, there's not enough people to cheat -- who's behind political reform and who's against political reform. And, Your Honor, support the President in the end. We've already agreed to support it in political reform, the opposition, and you're giving it up. Why are you making him laugh? Let's get to the bottom of this and get to work as required by the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u143	Dopkin, then Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u144	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This issue will not be resolved in any way, nor will there be any option that will give rise to opposition to the electoral law, but something will be wrong. Therefore, I propose that if they have such great love for the rostrum, let us set up another rostrum at the other end of the room with which we will hold a session with which the deputies will speak. And they put pictures on this one, and then they take pictures of each other. Because we're not going to be able to pass any laws, we're going to crash the budget process, and we're going to be loving each other right here, standing out of the rostrum. And I also want to say that this blockade of the rostrum violates my constitutional rights, and I cannot perform my duties as a national MP. And if they do not respect themselves, let them at least respect their colleagues who want to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u145	Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u146	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party. Some here said that we should consult with the electorate. For days there was a public forum of Poltavščina, by the way, organized by a team of the President's Administration. So in this forum, the voters made a decision like this, quote, "The first step in political reform is to consider the adoption of a law on proportional electoral systems." Further, an order by the voters from Poland to oblige the national deputies of the Republic of Poland to vote in favour of this law. Let us listen to the electorate and do what the people of Ukraine need, not the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Let's take a summary of this question. Just a minute. None of the proposals that were made were supported in the session hall, nor was it aimed at re-reading, nor was it for the commission of a special commission led by Alexander Moroz and Hennaday Vasiliev, and I have every reason to believe that the bill was rejected. We must return to them according to the Rules. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. To the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, please gather in the office of the Supreme Council.
