ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:04]] Registered -435 There are 435 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and Article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich into the "Our Ukraine" faction, in particular, the return to the "Our Ukraine" faction. National Deputy of Ukraine, Alejandro Vladilenović, of the Democratic Initiative Group. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals from Ukrainian national deputies. I ask the national deputies to sign up for this, i.e. to make statements, messages and suggestions. And if you don't mind, I'm announcing the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Peter Diminsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of social economic development in the village of Dolge-Gyrskie, Lviv region, caused by decisions on the construction of a water shelter on the Stry River. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:49]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reconstruction of the public education school in the village of Miroljubovka, Novorontsov region, Herson region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:19]] For 118 Decision taken. Mikoli Bagraeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the reconstruction of the city's heating systems. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:47]] For 132 Decision taken. Groups of Ukrainian national deputies. Chernewsky, Proskoratova, Zarubinsky and others. A total of nineteen national deputies. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of citizens' rights to receive the benefits provided for in the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:24]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the requirements of ratified international conventions and treaties regarding the prevention and response of emergencies by the Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster and other executive authorities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:07]] For the 180. Decision taken. Leonidas Sergienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for ignoring members of the Galician Customs Department's ruling on the vehicles of international transport companies Vinil and Nictrans. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:44]] For 111 Decision taken. Victor Slava to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the improvement of the system of treasury services for local self-government. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:13]] For 135 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on compliance with the Ukrainian Citizens' Appeal Act. [[when considering the request of Ivashchenka, an entrepreneur from the Winnitsk Region]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:42]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Jury Solomatin to Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Hajduk for failure to execute the Kiev City Office of the Ministers of Ukraine's mission to improve the social sphere in the Teremka-1 microregion and the Cybernetic Centre of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:16]] For-90 Decision taken. Vladimir Bronnikov - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity of the complaint of the employees of the "Southern" Association of the Basilic Region of Zaporozhye. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:44]] For-89 The decision is not taken. Sergey Teryochina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violations of legislation on the construction of the city of Kyiv and the lack of proper response of the Henprocurator to the previous parliamentary statement on the problem. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:16]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Julius Timoshenko - to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the situation around the Winnick furniture combination. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:44]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Michael Melniczuk - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the results and verification of the use by the Head of the Montenegrin District Administration of budget funds for the renovation of the cabinet and the acquisition of apartments for their deputies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:17]] For 148 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies of Katerinczuk, Stretović, Klukkowski - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of land violations by the management of the Salnica Association of the Winnitsky Region regarding owners of land and property rations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:49]] For-93 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on numerous violations by law enforcement agencies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:19]] For a-117. Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk - to the Attorney General of Ukraine the third request for the verification of the existence of a criminal offence provided for in article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, in the actions of the Head of the Sumu State Administration on suspicion. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to withdraw the vote. I'll give you the information. It is now submitted to the Regulatory Committee for an application for the formation of parliamentary powers. Then perhaps there is no need to send a parliamentary request? I'm putting to the vote this parliamentary motion for referral, if you please. [[10:12:16]] For-191 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Agrarian Policy for Violations of the Bobrinecki District State Administration of the Kirovograd Region, Presidential Decree of Ukraine on Reforming the Agrarian Sector. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:46]] For 131 Decision taken. Tarasa Steckowa to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on debt from compensation payments to victims of the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:17]] For 158. Decision taken. Anatoly Átnawajka to the Minister of Culture of Ukraine for the preservation of the children's film theatre "Kravna Šapocka" in the city of Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:46]] For 128 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Education of Ukraine for violating the conditions for conducting an all-Ukrainian competition to protect the research work of members of the small Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:16]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Vitalia Oluyka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the absence of forms of foreign passports for Ukrainian citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:43]] For 181 Decision taken. Alexander Turchinov to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund regarding the size of the pensions of some employees of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:12]] For 109 Decision taken. Andrew School to head the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine to resolve the issue of the transfer of the Temple and Monastery premises in Lviv to the area of the administration of the Lviv Observatories and their further return to the religious community. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:46.]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Jurija Solomatin, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, on the illegal actions of the Holding Fund during the sale of the construction project "Citizen Center" in the Bologna district of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:17]] For the 180. Decision taken. Petra Toloczka to the head of the Suma District State Administration for the preservation of the cultural heritage of the literary village of Jaroslavec Kruglevecki district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:45.]] For the 180. Decision taken. Yes, John Stojk to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Head of the Monastery District Government Administration of Sosnicky in connection with the refusal to grant separate service premises of state property in the administration of executive power to work with the electorate of the constituency 166. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:34]] For-167 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the beginning of hunger at the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the free trade unions of the Poltava region and the city of Kharkiv, and violations of the Ukrainian law on professional associations, their rights and guarantees of activity, and the Code of Acts on the work of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:11]] For-140. Decision taken. Ally Alexandrovsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations committed by officials of the Military Prosecutor’s Office of the Mikolai district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:38]] For-100 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the conformity of the current legislation with the order of Minpraca, the Chief of Staff and the Pension Fund of Ukraine dated 8 November 2001 No481/79/61. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:13]] For 104 Decision taken. Ally of Alexandrovsky and People's Deputy Kuharczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the intention of illegally transferring the premises of the Kharkiv Road Transport Technicum. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:46]] For 115 Decision taken. Alexandersky's Ally to Deputy Prime Minister Hajduk on Unsatisfactory Implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Promoting the Development of Domestic Machinery for the Agricultural Complex. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:18]] For-119 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I have been asked by the national MPs to put the necessary number of votes to the vote. If there's no objection, I'll do it. Ask. Peter Diminsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of socio-economic development of the village of Long Mountain Lviv region, which was called upon by decisions on the construction of a shelter on the Stry River. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:57]] For-76 The decision is not taken. People's Deputies Groups: Chernevski, Proscuratora, Zarubinsky, only 19 national deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the rights of citizens to receive benefits provided by the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:29]] For-151 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Citizens' Appeal, when considering the request of Ivanishchenk's entrepreneur from the Winnitsk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:00]] For-93 Decision taken. Vladimir Bronnikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity of the complaint of the employees of the company "Southern" of the Basil region, Zaporez Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:33]] For 106 Decision taken. Sergey Teryochina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on gross violations of legislation on construction in the Bologna district of Kiev and the undue reaction of the Henprocurator to the previous parliamentary address on the problem. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:04]] For-92 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Winnick furniture combination. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:29]] For-144 Decision taken. Yes, and Andrew School to head the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on the issue of the transfer of the temple and monasteries in Lviv to the area of the administration of the Lviv government, with their further return to the religious community. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:05]] For-126 Decision taken. I ask the Secretariat to no longer put to the vote those parliamentary requests that have not been supported twice. Yeah, let's move on to the performances. Please state on board the name of the national deputies who have been registered. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Get ready for Roman Tweak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u2	Thank you. Please give the word to the leader of the bloc, leader of the Julia faction Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u3	Timishenko Julia Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u4	Thank you. Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to inform you that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I made a statement regarding the extraordinary situation in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Security Service has two people in custody, the officers of the Ukrainian tax police, the flag of the tax police Shaman Vitali Fedorovich and the captain of the tax police, Non-Straight Oleg Viktorovich, in the underground lab for the production of synthetic drugs. Along with the detention of these people, 40 kg of synthetic fentanyl was confiscated. For someone who doesn't know what it is, this drug is 400 times stronger than morphine and a thousand times stronger than heroin. This is the record of Guinness, which is set in Ukraine. 40 kilograms, even for a few grams of this substance, requires international licenses for pharmaceutical companies. But the question is not only that this information has not become an acquisition in society. The question is: That it was the Attorney General of Ukraine who took these people to work, that he was the only team with them. Ukraine’s general prosecutor, Piscoon, is practically the roof of Europe’s most powerful drug business. I want to tell all my colleagues that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I asked them to invite, on behalf of the faction of the head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Radchenk, and Piscon to report on this issue. If, as always, the country’s top management, the highest parliamentary and national deputies, do not respond to this extraordinary event. On behalf of the faction, we will turn to international organizations that are engaged in the fight against the world’s drug business. 40 kilograms of this drug is dangerous not only for Ukraine but for Europe. I think we should at least pay attention to such things. I ask the National Deputies to support the invitation of Radchenk, director of the BSS and Piscona to the Supreme Council to answer this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u5	Yes, is there a Roman Tuck?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u7	Bogdan Kostinuk, please. Prepare the Sergei faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u8	The Ukrainian People's Movement "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! In May I spoke from this rostrum with the question that a little more than a year of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been working 4 summonses and our electorates are asking why not a national language is used quite often from the highest rostrum of Ukraine. In 13 years of independence, Ukraine has grown up to be a whole generation of young people who have studied a language other than the one that is sometimes spoken in the Supreme Council. They do not always understand what is going on during the sessions, and they demand full information in the national language. Today’s state of Ukrainian language in our country can be considered critical. The violation of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine has become a normal norm for seniors. Surprisingly, the President of Ukraine, who was to become a guarantor of the Constitution, is in violation of his own appointment to the highest positions of those who do not speak the national language. Was he 13 years old to study it? I'm also asking the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Why, when they speak in the Supreme Council and break the Rules, take the speaking time or do not actually speak, the Head makes notes, turns off the microphone, and so on. And when they speak in a non-State language, there is absolute indifference. But it is also a violation of the Rules and a violation of the Constitution. I repeat, but, Your Honor Head, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, please contact the President of Ukraine and the government to ensure that no officials who do not speak the national language are sent to the session hall. And we need to follow the rules of the Rules in the session room. The third session is due to be completed. And it is necessary to assign appropriate services for the summer period to ensure a simultaneous translation of the speeches in the Supreme Council in the national language, and for the radio audience, and for the deputies. Today, the full functioning of the Ukrainian language is a matter of national security. The attitude of power toward the national language is a test for the exercise of Ukrainian national interests, the protection of the rights and freedoms of the national nation. And our voters also appreciate those who speak from this rostrum in a non-State language as hostile to Ukrainian national interests, as hostile to the protection of the rights and freedoms of the nation of title. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u9	National deputy Sergeienko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of the Ukrainian Labour Organization. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I thank you for supporting my repeated parliamentary inquiry into the illegal detention of cars at the Galician Customs. Today, cars belonging to a foreign State have been delayed for more than two months on the border. Today we are ignored by the international convention and other legislative acts that the country that the European community will accept us into the World Trade Organization if we violate our own laws. Today, Swedes are more familiar with the laws of Ukraine than our customs. Yes, on April 17th, customs officers of Dnipropetrovska noticed two cars with violations that were detained. But the carrier is not responsible for the facts of the arrest. Following my request, the Attorney General’s Office canceled all customs decisions and declared them invalid and obliged them to release these cars. Until now, however, customs officers have delayed cars and there is nothing that can be done. Customs does not listen to any parliamentary requests, nor to the Attorney General’s Office, nor to the Law of Ukraine. So I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put my request again under control to make the matter a matter of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u11	Mikola Rudzkowski, he will be performing two rules because Stanislaw Nikolayenko gave him the right to speak, they are standing next to the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u12	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. On June 8th, the election campaign was concluded in the 206th constituency, which had nothing to do with free will. I'm not going to say that the electoral headquarters of the pro-government candidate was in the district government every morning, and the teams were giving business leaders. Just as in 2000 the Zaedu bloc, and now the candidate for power, went through the prison, the sizo, the house of the mentally ill, the soldiers whose vote was virtually unanimously secured. We, the national deputies of Ukraine: Semenyuk, Nikolayenka, and others, have discovered such a mechanism of counterfeiting in one third of the area. At six locations, we've caught the hot-line machinists -- we've removed passport lists, installed individuals, filed violations, and now we're preparing a referral to the Attorney General's Office. During the final stage of the election, law enforcement officials were actively involved. On June 6th, when I and the opposition candidate arrived on tonight's live air, we were practically accompanied by Lieutenant Colonel Owl's chief of police. Seven minutes along with us was the end of Natalia Mikhailovna Vitrenko’s direct air. And as soon as we entered the studio with John, he announced that the premises had been replaced and that he had started expelling technical workers from the district television company. The candidate and I demanded that we stop this nonsense and turn on the broadcast. The two majors were lying on the couch, groaning and saying, "No, no, no, no, no, no." And then I remembered Moscow, Nord-Ost, when people jumped out of real danger, and the police risked their lives fighting for people's lives. When you see this in Ukraine, you can't help but agree with the words of our wise president, who said, "The sole measure of measure." But it was yours, Leonid Danilovich, that the sub-Donnas gave instructions to these police officers to announce the replacement of the television company. And it's from Kiev, because they wouldn't have thought of it in Chernig. They can't catch a dozen junkies that make the whole city groan. I appeal from this rostrum to the Minister of Internal Affairs to investigate the facts immediately. At the top of cynicism, I think of myself as the national deputy of Ukraine, who was on the verge of falsifying the elections at the presidential canals. This is no surprise to me, it is worth recalling the campaign against the Council of Europe, the OSCE, some of the other national deputies who are sitting here, in the hall, in order for the object to fall into the prison of the President’s Administration. Here's a story, where two women with lists and passport numbers, a carousel in 52nd district, asked me, "What are you doing here?'," they rushed off. I brought one by the hand of another police officer to the police station with a request to establish a person, calling on lawyers to file an act. On the following day, he heard something quite different from TV. It reminds me of a militiaman who caught two criminals while robbing a store, brought them to the Ryviddell, and the next day, from the TV screen, he found out that he was being tried for it. You've ever seen a rapist bring his victim to the police, saying, "Scramble up, set up her person, she's breaking the law." Absurd. But not in our country. As long as this mode exists, it's with us. We can only fight him by appealing to public opinion. We also prepared an appropriate court appearance. Our faction of socialists claims that only full-scale political reform, the transition to a proportional electoral system, the mandatory subordination of the forces of the Supreme Council and the complete withdrawal from power of those who identify the oligarchic clan dictatorship today may be a hindrance to the cynical falsification of elections. From myself to journalists and communists. In Montenegro, the Socialist Party supported, not its socialist, but one of you, a journalist, a newspaper editor. For you, the journalist's voice is heard from the Supreme Council. Have a conscience and public responsibility when preparing similar stories. Hitler became Hitler not because he was born in Austria, but because thousands and tens of thousands shouted to him: "Heil!".. Churchill, in his statement, said that Hitler was to be born with such a face. But in the future, it may come back with a beard and a sideburn. Don't mislead the public opinion, give up the Hebbensian theory of fooling people, even if you're in the service of this regime. Yesterday a Communist from Montenegro, commenting on the results of the elections, reiterated his opposition. I can't help but answer. If Communist Simonenko had not given the word of Alexander Moroz and Boris Olijnik to endure the support of the only candidate in Chernig, the candidate from the opposition of John would have won. Communist Yasoka withdrew 4.5 thousand votes and failed to reach out to John 2.5 for victory in Chernig. Stop at the end of the day, honourable voters, vote for the communists. They were selling you and your interests from Gorbachev. That was not the case once. This was the case in past presidential elections, in Zitomir, Chernig. Because there is no other explanation why the management of the Ukrainian Company did not allow Yasoka to be removed when the Communists of Chernigov insisted. Four members of the City Company stepped out of the Company in protest against the communist split position in Montenegro.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u13	Thank you. Les Tanjuk has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u14	The company was, is and remains a reserve of the Ukrainian President's Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u15	Les Tanjuk, please. Is Les Stepanovich Tanjuk? You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u16	I'd like to give the floor to Mr. Eugene Gorgen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u17	Eugene Gorenik, please. Is there a miner?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. I would like to draw your attention to the problems associated with our parliamentary questions. A week ago, a request was made by deputy Stephen Gavrish and a number of deputies in connection with the environmental disaster in Kaluchi. I was born and live in Kaluchi for over 40 years. And, ladies and gentlemen, after that, my electorate called me about an environmental disaster or an atypical pneumonia or a nuclear bomb or something. For a long time, I could not find the text of that query. It turns out it's about increasing the statutory fund of Lukor ZAT. Of course, this problem must be solved, but, Your Honor, Stephen Bogdanovich, let us not be intimidated by various environmental disasters. A similar statement was made yesterday at the Supreme Council Hall regarding the environmental disaster in the village of Yavorov, which relates to my constituency. I haven't been to this village once, I've sent MPs, I've checked the situation, all the control organs and the Attorney General's Office, and the Ministry of Environment, sansations and stuff like that. I have no reason not to trust the expertise of the Kyiv experts, not local experts. Indeed, there are environmental problems that need to be addressed, and not only environmental problems, but they can be solved by local authorities or the judiciary. But once again, there is no environmental disaster. And on one more question, I would like to say, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We were set up here with a new technique and promised that we would have information about all the legislative acts that we are considering in the Supreme Council Hall. Apart from the order of the day, we can't see anything on our monitors, we're still given a bunch of papers that are lost and that are very hard to work with. I would like to ask you and the relevant staff of the Supreme Council for the next session to have all the texts of the bills under consideration on the monitor and be able to work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u19	Leonidas Vernigora conveys the right to speak to Stanislav Nikolayenko, to prepare for Boris Olijnik, who will speak instead of Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Before coming out of the planned question, I would like to say that Mikola Rudzikowski was speaking, of course, under the pressure of such extraordinary events, and I think he made the assessment of the company his personal one, which does not correspond with the thought of the faction or the political tradition of the socialist party of Ukraine. What about the subject of my speech? Yesterday, Ukraine was able to look at another example called Freedom of Word in Ukraine. I was asked to be the head of the Profile Committee for a broadcast that was dedicated to the problems of the university in passing "Double Evidence" to "1+1." When asked about the cause of corruption in Ukraine and in higher school, I said four reasons: First - Economic. When I said that out of ten percent of the national income, which is almost eight percent of the gross domestic product, is spent on education just four, that's the main cause of corruption in higher school. The other one. I said social. The salary paid by a higher school teacher today is double, three times lower, let's say to a flag of the Ukrainian Security Service. Moral reasons, for example, when bribes are allowed today, corruption is organized from the President, the Prime Minister, ministers, deputies, and senior officials. And the state today says, do as I am the principle known in the military. So I want to tell you, why can't we do this in education today? And finally, it's legal when, let's say, active legislation doesn't work. And when I'm four moments away so briefly. Look, the minutes said everything, then yesterday showed only one moment -- social and, we'll say, second legal moment. Everything related to morality and other such things were thrown out. Four more of my, three replicas that talked about the situation in high school, where, according to the government's decree, the first-grader kit, so-called, today should be about 140,000, in fact, according to the State Department, it's 66,000. All these moments were cut out of the transmission. And today I'm forced to take the floor to explain to the voters that my statement was from four points, four of which were said. All of this was cut out, and today the voters are asking me: Why did you keep your mouth shut in this broadcast? People are good! I didn't say anything! I was silenced! Everything was just cut out and destroyed. I think that's another principle when you need to say what's allowed, excuse me, an elite ruler. I think it's a disgrace! I ask the Freedom of Speech Committee to deal with this situation, and I will deal with it myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u21	Yes, Boris Ilchi Oliynik, please, instead of the national deputy Vladimir Lechchenka. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues! For a long time, I could not understand what we were fighting over for a few months now since the proclamation of another reform this time on the system of power. Until, as one humorist put it, when suddenly the thought went out of hand, it was an elementary rain that sounded like a choice Ukrainian. The MPs have forgotten that by 1995, almost everything we are now called upon to sign a notorious constitutional agreement. Indeed, the signatories of that agreement do not remember about 1995 we had essentially a parliamentary-presidential structure of power. But instead of getting tired of people’s heads through a series of reforms, let’s look back on the structure of power until 1995 with some refinements. Here in this room, without moving away from the voting controls, we're just going to call off the former agreement and we're going to add proportional choices and the right of the majority to form a government, that's all. And it's not just another labeling of unhappy voters who didn't usually break what they want. Since all these proposed reforms are no longer a rainstorm, they are more likely to lead. Money has not been saved in various surveys, referendums, and other reforms to pass on to the construction of the Chernobyl sarcophagus because the old roof is threatened by Chernobyl-2. It is not necessary to buy a batch of letters for those who voted in favour of shutting down the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. I'll tell my dear colleague Rudzkowski that before making similar statements to the rostrum, we have to deal with our faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u23	Valentina Seminouk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Leukko Lukyanenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u24	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The Special Committee on Privatisation has a large number of citizens who, for some reason, cannot properly pay for residential services. In doing so, they give motivated appeals to utilities, citing the reasons for the failure to pay for municipal payments. However, regardless of the reasons, he applies to the judicial authorities with exorbitant debt requirements. This is a matter of social importance and needs to be resolved as soon as possible. In accordance with articles 46 and 48 of the Constitution, the State guarantees everyone a standard of living no less than a minimum of living. This includes housing costs. A similar standard is laid down in article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Constitution guarantees that pensions and other social benefits, which are the main source of livelihoods, must ensure a standard of living not below the minimum of living. This rule is established by law. In the housing structure, the minimum wage for residential services is on average 12 percent. The Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 7 June 2001 on Information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the Status and Formation of Tariffs Prices, on Housing and Utilities Services proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers and the authorities of State and Local Self-Government should not apply sanctions for non-payment of housing and utility services, except for those families, a total income actually obtained that does not exceed the subsistence minimum of those families. However, the total population debt for residential services for June 2003 is 7 billion. 536 million. The public service debt is 12.8 months. A lot of the population doesn't pay for residential services -- that's part of low-income families. Instead, people are arrested and thrown into the streets. Thus, the Supreme Council’s 2001 decree has not been implemented. Given that this is a social issue, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee and the Supreme Council Rules, I make a proposal in order to monitor the implementation of the Supreme Council's regulations and relevant laws to bring the matter up for consideration by the Supreme Council, because people today are staying flats for non-payment of municipal payments, and they have money on bills, they have debts on salaries, and if this issue is not considered, we will in fact soon have before the walls of the Supreme Council those homeless people who have been evicted by a court decision. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please put this as a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u25	Okay. Lejko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u26	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you very much. Honourable MPs and distinguished voters of Ukraine. The presidential team, the government and the whole group, the entire mob-crime clan that govern Ukraine, are endlessly harassing the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian electorate with the problem of political reform. Political reform is needed by Ukraine, but what the President of Ukraine proposes is not political reform, but manoeuvres, how to continue the power of the Qutsim clan. We must all understand very well that the President has no intention of making political reform. He intends to continue with the scroll of power, but his authority has been the destruction of Ukraine since 1994. The president and his team are mostly made up of thieves who are supposed to be in prison for destroying Ukraine since 1994, aware of the imminent responsibility before the court, and so they have devised a political reform called political reform. In fact, the political reform offered to us by Kuchma is not the nature of the change to the Constitution that Ukraine needs. We know that one way or another, and the time of responsibility will come, and Kuchma and his clan will face justice before the trial of the Ukrainian nation. There is no excuse for the destruction of Ukraine, which has been going on for nine years. Instead of reforming the economy and contributing to production, promoting industry and agriculture, we see a series of thefts of industrial objects, destruction of those industrial objects that were competitive and could produce competitive products for sale abroad, these enterprises either destroyed or completely shut down, or have gone into production of something completely, you can say, unnecessary. Our legislation, instead of promoting production, choked him. Strangely, Ukraine lives in conditions that are not conducive to production but try to strangle it. It's a contradiction between Ukraine's interests and the interests of the bitch that has gathered around Kushma and is suffocating our Ukraine. I think all of our voters understand very well that Kuchma's maneuvers on the extension of his power must be stopped. His thieving environment would have retired and Kuchma would have been with him in time, not to continue its existence and destruction of Ukraine to the very rest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u27	Instead of the National Deputy Tsushka, John Boki, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Yesterday I received a phone call from Horol Poltava County and was told what was meant to be waiting. There's already been bread on the Horoles farm, and it's already going online for 22-25 copies more expensive than it was today. In the area, in the villages, and not only in the Horol region, but also in the Orgitsky area of the plant, panic has already begun, literally panicking. People buy everything: they buy flour, they buy grains, they buy macaroni, they buy noodles -- they buy everything. They buy fish cans, meat cans. I mean, there's been a panic in the country. I have to say that our faction warned last year that we are not going to have a problem with bread, that we will have a problem with bread, because the harvest has been attributed and we know well that it has been attributed by at least 30 percent. There is no bread. Traders took him out and didn't take him out. Now there's a bill on the import of 2.5 million tons, which is clearly located somewhere in one of the Ukrainian ports. And so on. I mean, people are good! What happens is that you have to wait for an authority that cares not about the substance of the matter but about its image. And today, when we see that it's actually starting not just a bread problem, but it's starting to turn into a mass famine that's going to be called a new famine, we see that power doesn't work. And the events in Horoli, they didn't cause any concern. People turned to the district administration in Poltava, silent. The district council is silent. Regional administration is silent. Same thing in the district council. There's silence everywhere. No one pays attention to people or pays attention to them. What's going on? I think it is appropriate for us to mention here that Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine has promised that he will not allow bread to travel to the country and that he will not allow famine to take place in Ukraine. I think that if the government makes such promises, it must keep them. And most of the time, I use words like that. The government of Yanukovich is your government. You're responsible for him, and you're responsible for the fact that in Ukraine there's a essentially hungry panic, a bread panic. If you answer, please go and influence your government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u29	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is given by Vladimir Puzakov in connection with his dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request. And that's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradish. The number of TB patients is increasing at a catastrophic rate in our region. TB increased by 23 percent, accounting for 71 cases per 100,000 population, the largest in the Republic. Tendencies to the spread of the infection were noted five years ago, but no significant measures were taken. I apologize for the inaccuracies, but almost everywhere in the area the FAPIs, the shortage of personnel, a number of hospitals are closed, the lack of transportation, etc. These are the measures that are used by the authorities to improve, in the paws, in the social infrastructure. The increase in the incidence of tuberculosis is primarily related to the standard of living of the population of Kirovgrad. The rate of spread of the disease is directly dependent on the growth rate of the population outside the poverty line. Socially unprotected levels of the population become more numerous each year. The absence of funding for antituberculosis dispensers allows doctors to observe only the development of disease and to take minimal preventive measures. In addition, TB has become a professional disease for health - care professionals, especially those who work with risk groups. And in Bobrinecki and the Lightwater region, the Tubdispancers were even eliminated, and instead, small cabinets were created, and they lacked doctors, and those who are unable to provide for the treatment of patients without funds. Specialists are running out of places because of cheap pay. Thus, medicine, death, and the nation perish, and a country that, unfortunately, has moved away from the development of health care is unable to provide health care with the necessary materials, resources. This is also evidenced by the fact that 20 people were hospitalized at the district center because of suspected botulism. One patient’s life could not be saved. And this is the result of natural markets where trade is uncontrollable. The number of such markets is increasing every day as if it were necessary, well, of course, for reporting. Here's a civilization for you and such a high price for it. So today it is very expensive for the citizens to pay for civilization. Too high a price for the benefits of civilization for an average citizen. Of course, there has to be one conclusion in this situation -- we need to change the whole system of social systems, and the sooner the better for the entire people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we've already taken two orders. Replica, Peter Simonenko. I'm just asking for no factions or last names. Please, Peter Simonenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u32	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I can't agree with you about that I have the right to use or call someone's name, it's my right. With regard to some statements, here is the statement from the gentleman's mouth -- I would like to stress -- that is Mr. Rudzkowski. I am convinced that this is his personal position, as stated here by our colleagues and associates from the socialist faction. And if this is a personal position, it becomes obvious that he opened his true face with his statement. And I have no doubt that he has been a success in his role as a fairytale for several years, covering up the so-called left idea, but, in fact, following the orders of the President's Administration, where he has very often gone and where he finds responses or feedback to his practical political activities, where he is encouraged, where he is supported. Therefore, all those who start fighting Compartia have always been fairy tales and have always lost to this struggle of politics. I have no doubt that this statement shows that it is very often among the individual representatives, in this case the factions who claim their left hand that represent very often those who advocate the interests of the President's Administration. I hope that the position of the faction of the Socialist Party is completely different, and we will continue to carry out, in concert, both our protest actions and our joint political struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! Instead of half an hour, we worked for more than an hour. So if there's no objection, at 12 o'clock let's not take a break. A draft law on the promotion of regional development is being announced for consideration. That's the order, please! For the report, five minutes, five minutes to answer questions, five minutes to report to the committee and 20 minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please give the floor to the report to Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u34	Honorable Presidium, distinguished national MPs! Your consideration is based on a bill that relates to the further implementation of national regional policy, the implementation of parliamentary hearings, and the Government’s Day, which was held in April. The project envisages the introduction of two new, fundamentally new instruments for national regulation of the development of regions that are effectively used in different countries, especially in European countries. One is the implementation of regional development agreements that are made between local government and government. What is the meaning of such a covenant? First, the agreement on regional development is based on a medium-term or long-term period and allows the establishment of a constant relationship between the centre and the region with regard to development of the latter, which can only change with mutual agreement. It is a legal instrument with certain responsibilities of the parties that make it and a certain responsibility for fulfilling their obligations. It is envisaged that the agreement will be signed by the Prime Minister or another person under the authority of the Government and, accordingly, the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the head of the district Sevastopol City Council or the Kiev City Head. Contracts are registered and subject to official publication in the Government Courier, published in the regional media. It's different. The agreement foresees, on the one hand, the existence of a long-term State strategy for regional development, which should be approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and determine the strategic priorities of the State in the development of the regions. Such a strategy is already being developed by the government. On the other hand, each region that is interested in such a relationship with the government as a treaty should have its own development strategy with prioritization. It should be approved by the relevant council, the agreement, which will serve as the instrument for reconciliation of national and regional interests, which determines the common actions of central and local authorities for a medium-term or long-term period aimed at the development of a particular region. In other words, the agreement establishes relations between the authorities of different levels of development of the region, which do not change during its operation. From the experience of other countries, it's five to seven years. The financing of the arrangements set out in the covenant is expected to be mutual, both from the state and from the local budgets. The key objective of such a tool is to organize joint work between central and local authorities to maximize the impact of the development of a region. Another instrument proposed in the bill creates legal, economic, and organizational principles for taking measures to stimulate the development of depressed areas. You remember at the parliamentary hearings, we talked about the fact that with depressed territories, an effective mechanism of work has not yet been developed. The bill defines the concept of a depressive territory that can be a region as a whole or a part of it. For the purpose of a differentiated approach to determining the territory, they are expected to be divided into such groups as regions, industrial areas, rural areas, and cities of regional importance. For the purpose of analysing the development of each of these groups, a number of indicators are used. They are few, but they are significant in assessing the status of the territory. In determining the optimum number of indicators, the government has concluded that a significant number of them reduce the ability to verify their authenticity and that work in their congregation, processing, and analysis should not become a goal. In addition, available data from statistical authorities were taken into account. The bill provides for a clear order of recognition of the territory as depressed, the deadline for granting such status, and the conditions for its extension. The openness and transparency of the solution to the issue will be ensured by the State Commission on Depressive Areas, which is designed by the draft law. The bill sets out measures to be taken by the State to stimulate the development of depressive areas, to overcome their depression, and to ensure that they function financially. At the very end, I want to say that the bill that was tabled at the same time by the people's deputy Bichkov is similar, it was introduced earlier, but the project that I'm now presenting to you, it's more technological. Finally, let me thank the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the other committees that unanimously supported the bill, as well as the people's deputies, in cooperation with which the bill was drafted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u35	Thank you. Is there a question for the Undersecretary? Please sign up. Put your name on the board. Basil Nadrag, I'm sorry, the National Choice MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u36	Dear Sergey Andreevich, the issue persists more technologically. Today, there are three bills. Each is expected to be adopted on first reading. I have a question as to whether there is any point in bringing these laws together to produce something united accordingly. Because if we pass three laws with you on first reading, then we will be led astray by them for a second and final adoption. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u37	Thank you. The point is that, and I've talked about it, the bill of the people's representative of Bychkov, it's almost the same. But since it had been introduced to the Committees of the Supreme Council earlier, in view of the introduction of the bill, we have already finalized and taken into account what has been laid down by the People's MP. With regard to the bill of MP Volkov, it is only part of that bill that I have just presented to you. Therefore, I would like to propose the adoption of Act 3384 on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u38	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u39	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Alexander Baranov's Socialist faction. Dear reporter, please tell me that you understand the creation of a favourable investment environment in these regions. Or do you again create free economic zones that try to cut off the benefits that there is, and this is a new way of opening up the benefits? That's one question. And the second question. Why are you ignoring the local authorities in your bill, all of which you're putting together programs and so forth for the government's repurchase. That's what it sounds like. By the way, in article three, how do you understand that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. First. On the contrary, this bill is an alternative to active areas of priority development. We have learned that the mechanism that is being applied today does not improve the socio-economic situation in depressed areas. And so this tool that's set up in this bill, it just allows us to move things from a dead point -- that's the first. And second of all, with regard to local self-government. On the contrary, we believe that this law raises the role of local self-government authorities in regional development. Please note that the agreement between the government and the region is signed by the head of government and the head of the district council, head of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Crimea. In order to develop a regional development strategy, all local authorities must work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u41	Mikola Noshchenko, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u42	Dear Sergey Andryovich! When it comes to depressive areas, it is likely that mining cities and areas of the Polisia area, agricultural areas, should be the primary focus. I've been drafting the question in such a way since the beginning that the village has been cared for by an agro-industrial complex. And for today, there is an appropriate structure in the APC that is responsible for the social development of the village. And all the investment in the village's support goes through this chief fund manager. You suggest that depressed areas will now be supported through the higher executive authority on economic policy. This means that your ministry will be fully responsible for the harmonious development of the village. We'll finally have someone to ask us. Is that so or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u43	It's almost like that. We have proposed that the only body in the state be responsible for the socio-economic development of the administrative and territorial units. We're now stretching funds across the department. To solve a problem in a complex, you have to look at it in a complex, then you have to have an effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u44	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u45	Boris Nepaly, Ukrainian National Party, city of Kiev Mr. Sergei, the idea of free economic zones is in many ways discredited, and there is such an impression that just on the same basis, there is some sort of circular maneuver going on there. In particular, please tell us what kind of fuses you place on such a typical manoeuvre when a firm or business entity registers in a free economic zone, now it will be called a depressed territory, does whatever it takes, and thus receives tax benefits and so on. This is the first danger. And the second. To what extent is this bill in line with the budget committee? What is the conclusion of the Committee on Budgets, since this law leads to a certain extent to budgetary redistribution and, in particular, to a reduction in revenue for the budget. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u46	Thank you, Mr. Bespali, but I ask you to pay attention to the law. There are no benefits offered to business entities. There are clear mechanisms that are implemented at the national level by the Supreme Council to eliminate depression. Once again, this is an alternative to free economic zones and high-priority areas. No aid is available to the subjects involved in these depressive areas. Funding for the exit from the crisis of these areas will come from the State Budget and from the regional budgets. There were no comments or objections from the budget committee to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u47	Yes, thank you, Sergey Andryovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. National deputy of Ukraine Sergey Anatoliyovich Bichkov to sing. The report is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! As I continue my statement by the Undersecretary of State on the topic proposed for consideration, I suggest you look further at the proposals that we all have tried to bring to your attention in these bills. It defines the basic terms used in the bill and is not defined in existing legislation. This is chapter one. Indeed, no law has yet been defined in the existing legislation with a view to a clear interpretation of the rights of the region. There have been many State aid programs in place, and I have had to face them in particular as deputy governor of the Dnipropetrov region. None of them have been fully executed in connection with underfunding, both by the government and by the local authorities. The analysis shows that funding is at a rate of between 10 and 50 percent of the planned. In the development of programs, local authorities tend to significantly increase the amount of expenditure, including government funding, a large number of local entities that cause the funds to be disbursed, transforming them into long - term ones. The use of public resources has a certain impact on the development of the regions, since the Ministry and the central authorities of the state and executive authorities have a significant share of the expenditure as the main managers of the state budget in the region. And the coordination of their activities with a view to reconciliation and synergies in the regions is not being achieved. Regional public administrations are generally not even informed about the plans of the central executive authorities on the measures to be taken in the current year and the extent to which they are financed. Local development programs are also not in line with these measures. The process of reforming economic relations is necessarily accompanied by a deepening imbalance in regional development. This has led to the passing and passing of all countries, without exception. In Ukraine, this differentiation in development has particularly deepened in the second half of the 1990s. The proposed treaty mechanism is an analogy to the contractual system of relations between government and regional authorities. These could be both government administrations and councils that are going to initiate the conclusion of the "Region-State" contract between their region, starting with the territorial arrangement below, this could be the area. This system has been in operation since 1984 in France and since 2000 in Poland. And it allows you to expand, and in no way replace the list of regional development tools. The bill allows the government to choose from the district council proposals those that coincide with the national strategic priorities of spatial development and to reject inappropriate proposals, it refers to a coalition government that works with the Supreme Council. So we balance and constantly create the conditions for working out certain legal restraints and contrasts. The bill allows the government to propose one contract at a time with several regions to implement spatial policy, to stimulate the concentration of local resources to address national development challenges. The adoption of the bill will allow for the prioritization of the priority development status of the territories. The existing legal framework for them is too diverse. Their determination was dominated by a subjective approach that does not guarantee their escape in the future. And in my bill, it's proposed that a government body be made up of representatives of the President, the Government and the Supreme Council in proportion to 24 people, in proportion to 8 per person. This will make the process as transparent and controlled as possible from adopting regional programs to being accompanied by a government budget. Unfortunately, it's a rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u49	Questions to our colleague. Please sign in. Put your name on the board, Chelnokov, National MP, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u50	Please pass the word "Hinsburg" to Olga Petrovney.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u51	No, don't do that, please! All of it! Basil Nadrag. I beg you, fellows of honor, do not do this to me again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u52	Dear Sergey Anatolyevich, I have read your bill, and it really impresses me that it takes into account the world's experience of creating, so to speak, these bodies, the formation and mechanism of special development zones. I might not even have as many questions as I'd like to ask you. There's gonna be a bill going through this room anyway, so it's already been given. Are you prepared to continue working with the Presidential Project to make sure that these positive moments that you have and are designed to make them come in and still become a reality, not someone else's, so to speak, simply by the work that has gone into the basket? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u53	I answer in Russian. Dear colleague! The main thing for me is that the bill has been adopted to make all contacts as transparent as possible in order to get the depressed regions out of those crises caused by various causes -- and the lack of funding, and the lack of production development, and the decommissioning of production, and the decline in the population of those areas. Which also makes them unsuspecting. That's why they're not very different. And a bill submitted by the President and mine, which was a little earlier registered. Therefore, I will request colleagues to skip them further after the first reading and to request a committee of a profile to summarize the positive that the colleagues of the Supreme Council would consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Sergey Anatolyovich! I thank you for this project that you just reported. I mean, you've been ahead of the entire Ukrainian Presidential Administration for four months. And by the way, I'm talking to those who want you to take the project off -- don't take it off, because it's as good as it gets, I'm going to speak and talk about it. I'd like you to explain now the tools of the state to stimulate the development of depressed territories. And please tell me, only in your project is there a study of the crime rate among the population as an indicator of the development of the administrative system units. I'd like to see how you see the development of government stimulus tools in today's system. In the existing one today, I emphasize the system of planning and enforcement of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u56	Thank you for your assessment. In any case, I do not want it to develop into any dispute between the legislators. Thank you for your assessments and for your cooperation in furthering this law after it is considered in the first reading. State stimulus for depressive areas is envisaged to achieve two main objectives. The support of low-development regions is goal one, and the areas that are experiencing structural change is goal two. Areas of industry, agrarian regions, and cities of regional importance may be used. The tools can be quite different, based on the existing legislation, which will be determined by the joint cooperation of the representatives of the region who will take the initiative to analyse all their indicators and government representatives. In my view, it could best be carried out within an advisory body where representatives who are approved there by the Supreme Council of Ukraine should necessarily be present. This can also serve as a tool for the effectiveness of these legislative measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u57	Alexander Baraniv Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u58	A socialist party. Thank you. The Socialist faction. Dear reporter! You're writing, your bill is really my opinion that it's the best one that's proposed, but you're writing that district councils can delegate powers to government administrations on regional development. We know how the district councils are now staffed, we'll talk, by forceful methods of MPs. And there is no doubt that each head of administration will have such authority. Is there not such a large mine, laid down, so slow that they will reason on these matters? That's one question. And the second question. I've already asked you here. After all, set up special regimes for investment, investment and innovation. It's these free economic zones again. We're coming in from the other way. How do you feel about that? And by the State Commission. Will it be advisory or will it be on a permanent basis, another would be a bureaucratic body? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u59	I think she should be advisory. I'm starting to answer from the last question. Advisoryly, however, decisions for all state executive structures should not contradict the decisions of that body. On the first question, I think, may or may not give district governments or administrations the right at all to speak on behalf of the Council. That depends on the board's qualifications. I went through both the local self - government and the district government. What's important is that there's an effect that doesn't appear in criminal matters in statistics, but there's a breakdown of the budget at the local or national level, but there's an improvement in the standard of living. It's not an end in itself to create a special regime, an innovation or an investment activity. It's an opportunity to predict for some area for a short period of time, maybe a complete tax deferment, in order to get more taxes in geometric progress, you know?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u60	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. Time's up. The word for the report is given by the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economics, Property and Investment - Vladimir Josephovich Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished fellow MPs, we are now considering two bills introduced by the President of Ukraine, number 3384 on the promotion of regional development and on the basis of the promotion of regional development introduced by the People's MP Bickov registration number 3025. In addition, the Committee considered encouraging the development of the depressive territories introduced by the People's Deputies Volkow and Belovol. But since they did not report at the session today, we will not consider it. The need to consider one of these laws, or to work together, is dictated by the fact that the issue of regional policy is extremely relevant and is an aspect of the socio-economic policy of the State. It should be aimed at bridging the trend towards widening disparities in regional development, i.e. regional disparities. Until then, there are no effective mechanisms in the State to promote and support the socio-economic development of regions, the activities of local executive bodies, local self-government bodies to accelerate regional development through the full utilization of natural economic and intellectual capacities. Until then, regional development issues had been legally resolved in the Law on State Forecasting and the Development of Economic and Social Development Programmes. But one of the main shortcomings of this law, which has so far been in place, is that it has not established effective mechanisms for effective interaction between the central executive authorities and local governments, in terms of the establishment of a holistic system of regional development programmes, harmonization with the general government programmes of economic, scientific, technological, social and cultural development of the regions. Therefore, these bills, and to a greater extent even the one submitted by the President, are announcing a policy-oriented approach as a means of promoting regional development, stressing the elaboration of an agreement on regional development, which should define joint action by central and local executives and self-government bodies. The draft is intended to define the objectives and principles of State policy to promote the development of regions, including the depressive territories, to define the criteria by which regions can be classified as depressed, sources of funding and mechanisms to promote their socio-economic development. Most of the structure of these bills coincides, however, according to members of the committee, the draft law on the promotion of regional development introduced by the President of Ukraine, No. 3384, from a legal point of view, has been improved. Moreover, the draft law has been defined as an emergency. In view of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Law on the Promotion of Regional Development, introduced by the President of Ukraine, and to take into account the constructive provisions of the bill introduced by the People's MP Bickov in preparation for the second reading. This will also take into account proposals that were included in the projects of Volkov and Belovola. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, considers that, as a result of its first reading, the bill of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, Volkova and Belovola can be adopted as a basis, and the bill of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Bychkov, should be returned to the first reading. The draft introduced by the President of Ukraine, in the view of the Scientific and Expert Office, could also be adopted as a basis for taking into account the comments made. There are, of course, many comments on this bill. One of the main comments, however we did not adopt the bill, could be blocked by the budgetary process. If the budget process does not take into account the main provisions and main proposals of the regions for regional development, no regional development, levelling the levels and pace of development and talking can be taken into account. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u62	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! We're looking at 35 minutes of this law, let's talk about it for at least 15 minutes, let's take a little bit of time. What's more? We agreed for 45 minutes. We have to vote. Names of the national deputies who signed up for the performance, please. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I have before me three bills that have been tabled for consideration today. I am very sad that the President of the country himself has nothing to do with duplicating a bill that is already under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in four months. These are official registrations, which have been absolutely rigorously recorded that on January 29th, Bischkov's bill was registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By the end of April, a presidential bill was registered. And today, the entire Deputy Secretary of State is convincing us and telling us how good it is. All right. You just have to watch that if there's a bill and. If you are interested, help us to work together rather than make an alternative and empathetic contribution. That's what I'm paying attention to right now to the President's Administration, Victor Medvedchuk. At least read it! Open your eyes! Not only do you intrigue, Victor Volodymyrovich, but sometimes read what is signed on behalf of the President. Now, here's to the essence of the project. The objective of the project is to define the principles for stimulating the development of regions. And he predicts the definition of terms such as depression, what is a regional development agreement, and I certainly believe that for the first time, the people's representative of Bitchkow asked the question that the unit development of the administrative system, including the level of crime among the population, namely the number of crimes per thousand people higher than the average in Ukraine. It's very important, because some of our regions have become criminalized, and the law enforcement agencies can't figure out, you see, even drugs, which are clearly a colossal evil, and this is about to hit Ukraine's prestige very hard. Among the indicators for industrial areas that refer to depressed areas are unemployment rates. It's time to say it. industry growth rates and all these indicators are proposed to be taken into account at the same time. I think it's very right and very right in agrarian regions is defined in article 7 of the Bull Project. And the level of employment and the level of population depopulation and population density are lower than the average in Ukraine. It's also a matter of concern. I believe that the bill of Volkova and Billowola, bill of 2521, which is just before the development of the depressed territories, but in fact it also has to be included in this bill and probably they have co-authority then divide because there are good and normal things here too. I propose to adopt Bill 3025 as a basis for first reading and to build on it a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u64	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party Get ready, Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u65	Equality, faction of the Ukrainian agrarian party. Dear National Deputies, one of the most common tools of State support for the development of individual territories, have all been state programmes for their socio-economic development. Today, however, most such programs are not being implemented due to the lack of sufficient budgetary funding. The size of government spending has decreased considerably in recent years and has not significantly affected the investment capacity of the regions. Thus, in 1998, government investment in the social sphere of the village did not exceed 10 percent of the amount established by legislation. In the coming years, such expenditure was not anticipated at all. In this regard, hundreds of negative examples can be cited; in the absence of time, I will give only one. The school in the village of Balashovka, in the province of Bereziv, in the province of Evinska, has been under construction for ten years, and the end of the land is said to be invisible. The same is true of special investment regimes introduced by the relevant laws of Ukraine and the President’s decree. The practice has shown that investment comes first and foremost in more developed infrastructure and low-economic development areas for which these special conditions have been created, unfortunately, continue and remain unattractive to investors. So it was no accident that the President of Ukraine passed a bill proposing more effective mechanisms for solving regional development problems. The bill provides for the establishment of criteria for assessing areas by which they may refer to depressed areas. It is suggested that the basic principles of national incentives for their development be defined. In order to ensure a level playing field for the rights and responsibilities of executives and local self-government bodies, this issue has arisen today, regional development is proposed to establish a procedure for making agreements between them on the basis of partnership. In addition, the project provides for the development of state programs to overcome the depression of the territories. Such programs should be provided within clear deadlines, which is also provided for in the bill. In our view, the adoption of the law will have a positive impact on the elimination of imbalances in socio-economic development of areas, contribute to the concentration of state and local resources where the greatest economic and social impact is possible. In the end, this will ensure that conditions are created for the dynamic development of regions and for the improvement of the standard of living of the population. In support of the bill, members of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party hope that the national MPs will treat it impartially, constructively, and soon accept it as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u66	Thank you, too. Ludmila Kirichenko. Yes, there isn't. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP. Get ready for John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u67	Dear Luhansk, People's Choice. Dear colleagues! Of course, what we are discussing with you today is ripe, because the idea of a basic law on regional development, of encouraging them, of special economic zones, of special economic development zones, of depressive regions. This topic has been discussed with us at parliamentary hearings and the idea that laws that would be fundamental would be needed to get away from any single legislation on a case-by-case basis will allow us to work more systematically on this topic. I'll give you one example. Here today, in all the discussions that need to be done to help the regions, is the same situation, for example, with capital investments from the State budget. They've gone down. I will give examples if in the 95th year, public investment in the regions was 24.8 per cent, the share fell to 5 per cent in 2002. I will not refer to my Luhansk region, but still Zaporozhye, Dnepropetrovsk, Poltava, Nikolayev - there are 0.8%, 0.6% and 2.4%, respectively. That is to say, a systemic approach is needed, which will enable this problem to be solved, so to speak, because no matter how much we talk about development, if there is no systematic development of public investment, everything else will be more simply our emotions. With regard to the situation that has arisen today, I will repeat what has been said from place, strongly convinced that we must go with a single bill. In this bill, we are obliged to include all the best that has been done. And to be frank, I am somewhat disturbed by the position of our colleagues in the basic committee who did not support the law put forward by our colleague Bychkov because, in my view, he takes into account a number of positive points that have been developed in world practice. He proposed a three-fold government of the State Commission, which would be involved in the development of the regions. It assumes that there will be representatives and the President's Administration on equal terms with the Committee, with the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Supreme Council. Regrettably, I have not been able to ask questions to the representatives of the basic committee; I ask them from the rostrum. My dear ones, in those bills you're proposing in those basic things if it's only in the hands of the executive, in no way, I don't doubt it. And yet why is it that the Supreme Council in the development processes of the regions still has to say so if we do not accept Sergey Anatoleevich's proposal? And the last. The budget code is certainly a problem, and I am deeply convinced that both the drafters and the committee in question must address the problem in such a way that they do not engage in looting that will enable the law to work at best with effect from 1 January 2005. We need it from 1 January 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u68	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Eugene Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u69	Ukrainian People's Party, faction of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We should not forget that we are discussing these two bills in the first reading. So I urge you to consider the fundamental things that are in their possession. Because if we make it easy for us to take a stand, we will not have a result. So I'm going to stop at two things. First. Where management ideologies are suggested to develop regions, if you read these two bills, you will find no answer to that question. But the world already has the answer to that question. This is the ideology of continuous development. When environmental requirements, economics, social considerations are at a level, social well-being or economic growth cannot be ensured today if we do not ensure the cost-saving use of natural resources if we do not provide a clean environment. So this policy should be based on the management ideologies of continuous development, neither in either nor in the other bill of ideologies. And I'll remind you, distinguished national MPs! What a result of the parliamentary hearing we accepted the recommendations. And in these recommendations, the Cabinet of Ministers voted on November 1, 2003, to approve the National Development Strategy of the Supreme Council, and it should also present as an element of this strategy for the sustainable development of the national environmental strategy. Thus, it is impossible for us to go today, as he said, ahead of our father to rush to hell. We need this strategy of continuous development, and as part of the implementation of this strategy, these bills can be. Otherwise, we'll do things that will lead us from the unitary type of state to the federal state. The other one. The text of the bill should clearly link the development of regions with the improvement of the ecological situation in them, i.e. the improvement of the lives of our citizens should take place not only in terms of their wallet but also in terms of the quality of air, water, and other natural resources. That is why it is important to isolate in the bills the very position on clean environment and the cost-saving use of natural resources. And the second. In these bills, we are asked to introduce such a novelty -- this is an agreement for the development of regions. So the local authorities are going to make a deal with the Cabinet of Ministers about execution, well, some kind of program. This is absurd, dear friends. Because if we go to such a deal, it means that we're going to say right now that we don't need Parliament today, that we don't need a state budget today. The State budget clearly states that only Parliament can make changes to the budget. And according to that legislation, the bills, they're going to be at the site of this agreement to change some kind of program. So, honourable national MPs, I propose to put these two bills to work, to create one bill, and to take into account that this novel is not going to happen, and that there is an ideology of continuous development.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Vladimir Spivacuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u71	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We are discussing today an extremely important problem, a problem related to relationships, relationships, central authorities and regions, the problem of regional development, their alignment, and their stability. The legal, economic, organizational means of implementing the State Regional Policy to stimulate regional development have been discussed more than once. And today, there are two bills: the Presidential and Bill of Honorary Fellow Bichkov, who are proposing some organizational innovations. From this point of view, I would like to make a statement. This is a deal between the Cabinet of Ministers and the local authorities. This is a deal between the Cabinet of Ministers and, I emphasize, the functional government administrations. The question then arises: What are the functions then in the Cabinet of Ministers, what functions then we have in the State Regional Administrations and how the idea of government is generally being carried out and implemented. But these are the kind of agreements that can be made between partners, but this is a completely different logic. That's why I'm convinced that to translate regional policy into agreements, to translate regional policy into contracts between the components of a single state structure, we just don't have the right -- that's the first. And second. The implementation of this bill in this part, as part of the conclusion of the agreements, will result in Ukraine's Parliament being completely excluded from the organisation of regional policy, that the Ukrainian Parliament will lose a number of its functions as provided for in the Constitution. That's why I think that both one and the other bill is convinced that the Bichkova project is much better than the President's, so I think that one and the other bills have to be worked out to some extent, so we need to send them back for a second first reading to make of these two bills the only one that would really allow for a stable development and economic growth of every part of every village, every city, every region and region of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Time's up, but Taras Cranville wants one minute. Please, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Since I've really been given one minute, I won't go into the nuances of this bill, they're all well spoken. [[Mr. John, really, a little quieter.]] I'm going to point out, in fact, that a little bit better than the level and reasoning. The bill of Bischkov and obviously will have to work on the basis of it, but all the bills need to be worked out and obviously they can't be adopted in the first reading, because, as has been said, the subject of the agreement between the subcontractor and its standing institution is, in principle, impossible. We have to go to the level of agreements that really predict the conversations of those who don't depend on each other. And here we go to the level of local self-government, which are separate cities, or what are individual councils. And in this particular matter, the issue of treaties, is appropriate. And Bichkov has a question that has already begun to develop today, this is cooperation between individual regions and individual offices of the Cabinet of Ministers on the question of not making decisions, and implementation and enforcement of decisions taken by the Supreme Council. I think that's something I can support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! The draft Regional Promotion Act has been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. A draft Law on the Deprivation of Lands of Private Property Rights is being announced for consideration. The rules are similar: reporters - five minutes to present drafts, five minutes to respond, a co-reporter - five minutes and the rest of the time to discuss. There's no objection. Thank you. Please invite the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources of Danilenko Anatolia Stepanović to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u75	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! You are considering the draft Law on the Deprivation of Lands of Private Property Rights, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to provide organizational and financial principles for regulating social relations that arise in the process of alienating land from private property rights for social needs and for reasons of social necessity. The current adoption of the bill requires the need for the operation of article 146 of the Land Code on the purchase of land for social purposes. To date, most of the land of state property has been transferred to private property by legal persons. However, the transition to market management methods requires public interest in the redemption and alienation of land for the construction of social infrastructure, industrial enterprises, housing, and other needs. Development, improvement of engineering infrastructure, such as transportation, housing, and manufacturing facilities of state and municipal property. The bill is therefore intended to satisfy the social interests of the state, on the one hand, and to guarantee the maximum rights of citizens, legal persons, on the other. The draft law includes 18 articles and the Final Position, which reveal its basic positions. In particular, the legal framework for the redemption and alienation of land has been established, a list of authorities that make decisions regarding the redemption or alienation of land and their competence, a mechanism for the redemption of land and appropriate compensation in the event of a social need. The grounds and order of forced land secession in case of social necessity are determined. The alienation of the land is done either by ransoming it for social needs or by forcible alienation, by removing it from the grounds of social necessity. In doing so, the alienation of the land is based on such principles. The legality of the ransom and the forced alienation of the land, the guarantee of the protection of the rights of the owner in the event of the alienation of his land. It should be noted. That the bill's operation is not extended to regulating social relations that arise in the event of an application for land incursions. creditors. Disposal of land in state and municipal property. Regulating social relations related to sales. The bill states that in the event of a redemption of land or parts thereof for social purposes there is a fair and full compensation for the ransom value of the land and the damage done to its owner. Instead of compensating the purchase price of the land owned by the owner, the property may be transferred to another equivalent land. In the event of an agreement to ransom a public area, between executive authorities or local government authorities and the owner of the area, a contract for the sale of land is entered into, which is notable. If the owner does not agree with the decision of the executive or local self - government authorities regarding the ransom price or the amount of damage, then these authorities refer to the court. The court’s decision is the basis for the termination of ownership of the land or for the refusal of the plaintiff’s alienation. The land may be forcibly alienated or removed from such social necessity. The introduction of a legal regime of war or state of emergency, for defence and national security purposes, except for the placement of socio-cultural and housing objects. For the construction and maintenance of linear objects and objects of transport and energy infrastructure, provided that the value and damage of the landowner have been compensated in advance and in full. With the adoption of this law, many problems will be solved with regard to land secession within the state and with private land owners, the State and municipal communities will be given a mechanism to acquire land rights in private property to meet social needs. Land-related entities will have clear guarantees of protection of their rights in ransoming or alienating land. Dear National Deputies! Please support the proposed government bill, which can be greatly improved in preparing it for second reading, taking into account the proposals and wishes of the national MPs. Thank you for your attention. Ready to answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u76	Please sign up for the question. Give me a list of names. Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u77	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, we are now again facing a situation where there are two bills. You presented your bill. Your opinion of alternative, second, whatever, bill? Your opinion: are there any positive points and, if there is, what cooperation with its authors has already been or is it possible? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u78	Thank you for asking. We've analyzed the bill prepared by the National MPs Tomicz and the People's MP Pulkowski, and in fact, frankly, they're identical and similar to each other, because if they're even deeper, they're written by one author. But there is one important discrepancy in that bill that narrows down the rights of citizens who must be protected by the Constitution. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u79	Alexander Colonyari, Ukrainian Deputy faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u80	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please give the floor to Deputy Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u81	Michael Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I have a question, similar to my colleague. Please tell me your bill was not supported on the committee but was supported by an alternate Mr. Sulkovsky and Tomic. Do you agree, as head of the State Committee, that their bill be adopted as an alternative basis? And the next question is, why are your bills very often rejected? And the alternative is getting positive?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u83	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, for the questions raised. You know, I don't have ambitions for that. If we combine our efforts and make two bills an even better bill that is needed for Ukraine, I will only thank you for your cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u84	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, in my opinion, the fact that you've come up with this project is positive, at least because there may always be a potential or hypothetical difference in social interests, in the interests of the private owner. I mean, from time to time, it's obvious that there will be questions about the need to alienate land for social needs. But I have this purely procedural, technological question. Your bill gives rise to what is determined 15 days after the court's decision, during which the costs of the executing authority or local self-government should be counted at the expense of the court if the court increases the amount of compensation that should be paid to the landowner. And here, according to the Civil Procedure Code, the court's decision becomes effective 1 month from the day after the verdict is announced. I mean, it could come out. That the funds will be listed before the court’s decision becomes effective with the appropriate problems. How do you feel about responding? Do you feel that this simply needs to be removed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u86	Thank you for asking. I have in my hands the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. We've been working very productively with specialists, with experts in this department, and, by the way, they're also making appropriate comments and making specific suggestions. I think that when preparing for second reading, your proper remark should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u87	Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u88	Please pass the word to Roman Tkachu.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u89	Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u90	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, don't you think that the notion of social need, of social necessity, has yet to be clarified in this bill, either in this or in the next bill. Because very often these questions, they're kind of resonating with the fact that when we declare social needs, we're just going to protect the right of someone else's private property. Some have built their own castle there, have to run engineering networks, or roads, and it will affect the rights of other owners. The question is, isn't it necessary to clarify the social need, the social need? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u91	Thank you, Mr. Roman. I'd like to divide your question into two parts. First. When preparing the bill, a working group involving scientists, experts, and experts were really balanced and tolerant in writing the rules of the articles. Because, above all, the goal was to balance the relationship without narrowing the relationship between the executive branch of authority, the authorities with the owner without narrowing the interests of the owner of the land. This was first of all, and those specific suggestions that you're saying, I know you're actively working with the Agrarian Policy Committee, so let's talk about and improve with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u92	Time is running out, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u93	Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u94	Paul Sulkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The alternative draft law, developed by John Tomic and myself in practice, actually told the previous speaker, Anatoly Stepanovich, that there are virtually no big differences, and therefore I am very grateful to you, Anatoly Stepanovich, that you agree to practically unify our two projects and bring them up to second reading, in fact, to make them more complete and so on. Dear National Deputies! The need to develop the adoption of this law is the following. As a result of the implementation of land reform in Ukraine, there is a change in the structure of the Ukrainian land fund. The use of which is based on the principles of the right to private property of municipal and state property on earth. Privatization of agricultural and non-agricultural land, farming, primary and secondary land markets make it necessary to balance private and social interests in the acquisition and realization of citizens and legal persons, territorial communities, and state-owned land rights. In today’s market-based land relations, ownership of land cannot be absolute and must also perform social functions, as is done in other countries with developed land markets to ensure the realization of the social interests of the people of Ukraine, the state, and the territorial communities. The basic principles for ensuring the realization of the social function of property rights enshrined in articles 13 and 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which, on the one hand, requires ownership of land, on the other hand, is guaranteed and no one can be unlawfully deprived of ownership. At the same time, according to article 41, part five, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the compulsory alienation of private property objects can be applied as an exception to the grounds of social necessity on the basis and in accordance with the law and provided that their value has been fully compensated. Forced alienation of such objects and the subsequent full compensation of their value is permitted only under conditions of war or state of emergency. Taking into account the stated standards of the Basic Law of Ukraine, two articles are contained in the present Code of Land: 146 and 147, which reinforce the legal framework for compulsory land purchases and forcible removals for social purposes or for reasons of social necessity. However, the standards of the above articles of the Code of Land are of a general nature and do not regulate the grounds and order of forced alienation of land, the right to private property for social purposes. Moreover, there are no other laws or legislation in Ukraine that regulate these issues. In view of these and other factors, a draft Ukrainian law has been developed which defines: the legal, organizational, financial, social regulation rules that arise in the process of redemption and forced alienation of land belonging to citizens and legal persons. The purpose of the bill is to provide for the enforcement of land, the right of private property for social purposes, and to provide legal guarantees for the protection of subjects of civil rights and legal persons if necessary for the compulsory redemption or forcible removal of land for public purposes or for reasons of social necessity. The bill's job is to regulate social relations in the area of forced alienation of land, private property rights to land. To limit these relationships from similar land-mine relations, to determine the location and role of the authorities of the State and local self-government in the process of redemption or forcible removal of land. The draft law consists of a preamble, five chapters, which includes 29 articles of the final clauses. Such concepts as land ransom, forced land alienation, social needs, and social necessity are defined, and the ransom cost. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the law will allow: First, government authorities and local self-government plan early use of individual territories to meet social needs at the expense of private lands that are being removed or forcibly alienated. It's different. Planning budget costs, allowing landowners to compensate for the cost of land and other expenses provided for by this law is not what is being done today. It will be possible to predict ways of investing, both domestic and external, in the economy of Ukraine, in land that is being bought out to private landowners. Administration and other illegal actions of public authorities and local self-government in the field of land management. Finally, it will provide real guarantees for the protection of the subjective right of ownership to the land of citizens and legal persons. In conclusion, honourable national MPs, I would like to say that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority has practically made a point of the 26 articles in the 11 articles. And what I'm trying to say is that this is, in fact, a valid observation from the Scientific and Scientific Administration. They will definitely be processed and will also be included in the second reading. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations unanimously supported the bill. And, I think, honourable national MPs, and I'd like to ask you. For you to also uphold this law, it will only benefit our Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u96	Thank you. Is there a question? Please sign in. On the board of names, please explain. The Turmanov People's Deputy. There's no Thurman. Please, Grosjev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u97	Please pass on the word of Bulbe.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u98	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u99	That's my question. I believe that this bill will be able to ensure that in any case we remove the land from anyone in order to use it for any social needs and then pass it on to the person who will be defined earlier. Why does it seem like that to me? Take a look at the article in your bill, article 17: "The use of land for social purposes can take place on the right of permanent use." And so on and so forth: " In cases where the need for land use disappears, it may be transferred to private property for another person. Well, it's not like you think it's some kind of absurd thing -- in one article, it rules out another.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u100	Thank you. I mean, it's a little bit, I'm sorry, it's not right. There's something you don't understand. The priority for the return of the land will be that of the person from whom it was removed. And, of course, when that person gives up his land, it is clear that he will. It's about you asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u101	This is clearly the way to write it that he has the right to return.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u102	And it is, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u103	Then it's different. Michael Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u104	I'm asking you to give the floor to the national MP, Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u105	Mikola Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u106	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. After all, Paul Gnatovich, the example that if forced land removal occurs, the citizen doesn't want money compensation, but he wants land elsewhere. What article is this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u107	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikola Haritonovich. Article 18, "Forms of land purchase" says this one, which is really the form that is predicted: and money, giving another equivalent land. For example, if a person does not want to receive funds for a given land area and needs a land area, he should do so only on condition. The law provides that its equivalent land is to be provided elsewhere by public authorities. It is also a law, this article foresees. And so that's the extreme, when the land can't be compensated for in his land area, then really the question is left in the money term. And if this law is to regulate that the executive authorities first have to replace the same one to compensate for the land area and then go to the extreme for compensation for the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u108	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Communist faction, 161 constituency. Dear Paul Gnatovich, I have such a question for you. I didn't get the point of this law. If, for example, because this is often the case in the city, many lands are now being taken to fuel stations, gas stations, or markets. So this is where the fate of the people who have these areas predominates their desire or the decision of the city? Is this a matter regulated by law or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u110	I thank you for such a question. This is basically what prompted this bill of law to us, so that we can, I urge, accept it. Why? Today, experience shows that the land, as you say, is that businessmen have the costs of filling stations, elsewhere, they are talking about a local government body that can literally call a session on the second day, talk to the national deputies, and make a decision. Why is there such a burden on the court today, etc., so it is with this bill that we predict that the local government will not have the right to decide before 12 months, or later, to accept the ransom of the land. Then, within 12 months, the local government will be able to anticipate and warn the citizen, agree with him on what matter he is redeeming, on what needs, etc. Therefore, on the second day alone, the authorities of local self - government will not be able to do so. This law will not allow you to continue to adopt this way, not for the benefit of a citizen, but for the removal of this land. This will really be the law to protect citizens from these attacks. I'd say bad guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u111	Yes, thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Mikola Lechchenko is the deputy head of the committee. Ah, Vladimir Leschchenko, I'm sorry, heads of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, both presented today in the sessional room, drafts were considered. Governmental number 2120 on the alienation of private property land, discussed at the meeting on November 27, last year. A number of important comments were made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. In particular, certain provisions of the bill conflict with articles 41 of the Constitution. In part, compensation to landowners purchased for social needs, the cost of buildings, buildings, and long - term plantations located in these lands. Furthermore, paragraph 1 of article 1 of the seven bills contradicts articles 9 and 12 and 12 of the transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land on the powers of executive authorities to decide on the redemption of land for social needs within the population. The issue of the alienation of land of private property rights in a state of emergency and war is virtually unresolved. In addition, the bill needs to clearly divide the notion of the redemption of land for social needs and the alienation of land for reasons of social need. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of significant remarks to the bill and proposes to send it for further work. In view of the above, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine send a bill to further the subject of the legislative initiative. By the way, I called the date of the committee’s consideration of this bill the subject of the legislative initiative to date the other bill was not introduced in exchange for comments. Another bill, No. 2120-1, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies John Tomic and Paul Sulkowski on the redemption and forced alienation of land of private property rights, was discussed in the committee on June 11. In doing so, it was noted that the individual provisions of the bill also require agreement with article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the compulsory redemption of land for private property rights for social purposes, as well as with the Ukrainian Land Code on the exclusive right to purchase land for social purposes. Moreover, the bill does not address the issue of redemption or alienation, along with the land parcels of immovable property placed on them. There are some internal contradictions in this bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also made a number of remarks to this bill and proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations recommends that the project be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u113	Thank you, too, Volodymyr Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! We have 16 minutes to discuss. I'm looking at the clock, let's talk. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Names on the board should be given to the national deputies who are registered. Prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! There is no doubt that the analysis of those bills that have been tabled on behalf of the government, the previous government, and the analysis of parliamentary bills have shown that they are fundamentally different. The roots differ because of the thoroughness of the main issues and the greater relevance, let's say, so I'll use the term, the greater compliance with the requirements of the Constitution of the Bill of People's Deputies, Tomic and Sulkowski, although these bills have not been invalidated. These bills are drafted in accordance with article 146, 147 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, and this article provides for the Earth Code that the purchase of land is done by the owner’s consent and that only the issue of redemption is settled in court. Hence, the ransom provided for in this article cannot be compulsory. I point out to you that part 5 of the Constitution of article 41 of the Constitution establishes the compulsory alienation of objects of private property rights, which can only be applied as an exception to the grounds of social necessity on the basis of order established by law. But under the conditions of the previous, and the full compensation of their value. Forced alienation of such objects and the subsequent full compensation of their value is permitted only under conditions of war or state of emergency. Thus, this rule of the Constitution should ensure its rule and would like to make specific comments to the articles of the law. It seems to me that in a situation where the government or local government can't find the owner of the land that is going to be removed, it's proposed to put an ad in the most popular newspaper, the popularity is suggested to be defined as anything. Whether it's on the market or for certain types of the population. It seems to me that this article should be deleted at all, since the Civil Code clearly provides for the removal of intangible, landless property. Such property is now abundant in the territory of the State. Therefore, this article will have to be deleted. Now for the other points. It must be written that the object of redemption or forced alienation, along with the corresponding land area, is also objects of real estate located in that area. Because not counting it is going to bring about lawsuits that will take years, years and years. Now with regard to the exercise of that right of warning of a future ransom, no later than a year later. This warning must be written that it is forbidden to do so after warning, and it is forbidden to alienate the area. Then it makes sense. If not, it can be resold three times, and three times it will be a year’s work warning. In general, I'm in favour of the first reading of the MP's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u115	Thank you. Taras Cranville, faction of our Ukraine. Anatoly Frost will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill itself can cause some fear, but I want to say right now that the current situation and the normative acts that regulate these actions are much worse with regard to landowners. Therefore, we should clearly regulate this by law. And such a law must be passed. Because otherwise we're going to have the absolute saviour that's going on in places today. I have some comments that apply to both one and the other bills. The only way to compare them is, you know, they're well complemented, even hard to figure out which of them would be a little bit better. If, let's say, the MP has a lot more, more written down a whole set of rules, then, in fact, I always go with the principle of the right of a particular owner, of a particular person. I believe that this law is primarily due to this. It seems to me that the government is better to write, not what it says more, but gives more rights to a particular figure, and that's why it impresses me. I think whatever of the laws we passed in the first reading in the room, we can both get to the right level when we're working. Although I say again, to some extent, one impresses me more precisely with labor and another with human rights. There are a few warnings on both bills. First. It is easier to spell out the inadmissibility under no circumstances of this willful one: taking the resell. You should. write down much more clearly as a completely unambiguous norm, which must be clearly approved by this law, not as it is decorative. And why don't we even predict whether this, or other laws, the possibility of forcing land leases where we can see clearly, especially the cause of the military situation, only the temporary need for land use. So forced removal for a specific time with a definite return to the owner and compensation for the damage he suffered. Another point that seems important to me because I see what's being done in places is the distribution of functions and powers between local self-government and government. We already have conflicts today between local self-government authorities and the State Commission, and I have examples where local self-government has gone to obvious volunteerism, for example, the organs of the State Commission in the same Lviv have proved to be more correct in making decisions, but this is where local self-government and state government are placed. We automatically provoke this, exactly the same conflict in any other issue that will be associated with the alienation of land. Sufficiently defined standards for renting these areas and renting them. As far as I am concerned, it takes a lot to narrow down those prerequisites, because renting for social needs can be a lot to lay down. And one more moment. I would think that the nuances that can be taken away from the land areas, if necessary, to the social needs to create a whole-powered complex could be to build a large enterprise, run gas pipelines and transport routes, or to forget big plans. But if there are free adjacent areas, it is appropriate not to use this norm in such a massive action. We can have examples of the country council getting permission to build an outpatient facility automatically dispossessing the land, repurchasing, repossessing the owner who didn't do anything to the head of the silrada. So this moment of limitation should also be introduced. Thank you. I think the bill should be adopted with certainty.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u117	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u118	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Clearly, market reforms in our country, redistribution of land, private ownership of land have caused the emergence of a large number of landowners, legal persons, most of the land owned by the state, dispossessed, but in the process of developing the socio-production infrastructure of the population, there is a need to satisfy the social development of interest in the land at the expense of the private property of citizens and private persons. In order to satisfy this social interest with the use of private property rights, on the one hand, and to guarantee the rights and legitimate interests of citizens and legal persons, on the other hand, it is necessary to regulate the legislation in question. Let me be clear: I like Tomic and Sulkowski's project better personally, because this project is more complete and concrete, but it also makes it clear that I need to make a lot of clarifications and specific suggestions that our fellow MPs make in their speeches. The need for the adoption of a bill that should regulate the order of forced alienation of land areas of private property rights arises from article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as from chapter 19 of the Final Provisions of the Code of Land. According to article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, forced alienation is permitted only on grounds of social necessity and does not allow other motives. However, the redemption of land for social needs should not be compulsory. I think it's necessary to work on, expand and specify, and I mean Tomic and Sulkovsky, chapter five of the project. There are also contradictions in this project. Thus, article 16, “The purchased land is transferred to the state or municipal property after its owner has received compensation”, and article 22 of the draft provides that ownership rights to the purchased land will be transferred to state or municipal property from the time the executing document is issued by the court. In addition, the bill should address the issue of redemption or alienation, along with the land of the immovable property on which it is situated. There are so many such conflicts now. Especially do I think that the majors know this problem. With the adoption of the bill, the State and the municipal communities should have a clearly defined mechanism for acquiring land rights that are privately owned to meet the above-mentioned needs. Land entities should have clear, transparent guarantees to protect their rights when they are redeemed or off the land. I think the bill in law needs to be supplemented by a second bill, and that law needs to be passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u119	Yes, thank you. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u120	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Private property is sacred and untouchable. The purchase of land is possible only with the consent of the owner. Only questions about land prices can be settled in court. But there's a lot of a thing in life. But there really is a social need, or sometimes there is a social need to alienate land. And even in the forced alienation of land. Therefore, it is necessary to regulate legislatively the secession of land from private property rights. And that's why these bills are right. Indeed, they need to be adopted because there is a problem of regulating the legislative settlement of these relations. But this requires a combination of interests, as is always the case. And it's always hard and hard. At least it is necessary, on the one hand, to guarantee the protection of the rights of private property and, on the other hand, to ensure the interests of society when it is necessary to force the alienation of land. I mean, there's a high degree of economic policy and a high level of legal engineering. I stress once again the adoption of the bill, but on condition that these guarantees are provided and that the interests of the private owner and society and the state are combined. On the other hand, the issue of property in the land will be resolved. And finally, drafts can be adopted if we agree with the Constitution, agree with the Earth Code, and agree with the Civil Code. Here's what we need to look very carefully at. And the last. I think we need to prepare one bill at least for the second reading. And I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention once again to the fact that Parliament and the government are working poorly at the level of drafting bills. For some reason, the government gives, the MPs give.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u121	But they don't listen to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u122	Of the majority, MPs are given to work with the government. And we're creating this summarium.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u123	Vladimir Kirilovich, we may wait until the conversation is over. We're not bothering you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u124	No, I think everyone should do their job. Let them talk, and we'll work. I think we need to prepare for the second reading of one bill. Because these bills are not alternatives, they actually complement each other in many ways, in some way they duplicate each other. So let's make a bill and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u125	Mikhailo Melniczuk, last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u126	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, by the way, I can't convey Melnik's opinion, because he has a lot of experience in his work, he has his suggestions. I just wanted to stop on these two bills, of course, the more sympathy is drawn to the bill submitted by the People's Deputy Sulkovsky and Tomic. But there are observations about this bill. I would like to draw your attention to the 6th article, dear colleagues. Article 6 violates the European Charter on Local Self - Rule. I would like the drafters of the bill and the government to pay attention to that. In article 7, I propose to delete in general paragraph 1 "district and district government administrations". I think it's a function of local self-government, it's 7 articles and 6 articles that go against the accepted European paper. Speaking to you, Anatolie Stepanovich, I would like to see your actions in Ukrzem to be accused by the People's Deputy Semenyuk, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office. And where the call that she made to Ukrzem regarding your actions, namely, after removing land, found support in the Attorney General's Office. And we're going back to this, and we're going back to this bill again, and we're going to put those rules that conflict with the current legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill, the bill of government, cannot be accepted, so I support the committee's opinion on support. But respectable colleagues, both Mr. Sulkovsky and Tomic, will certainly have to work on these bills for the second reading. I mean the articles that were, and the remarks that were the national deputies -- Mr. Cherniak and others, Mr. Carmazin, who were here. Appreciating that we have little time to finish the talk, I would like to give a few minutes to the Melnik national deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u127	Well, if you'd like to for one minute, Mikola Eutychyevich, please tell me what you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u128	Mikola Melnik, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnichtina Dear colleagues! Legislative arrangements for the order of forced alienation and the redemption of land held in private property are present in the vast majority of countries. It is based on the social need to use this type of land. At the same time, protection is provided for the rights of landowners who are forced to dispose of it. The State must guarantee full compensation for damage caused by the change in the landowner. The proposed bill provides for the possibility of redemption and forcible alienation of privately owned land. Bill 2120-1 contains the following comments that need to be reconciled. The second article, part three in paragraph "c", should take into account the possibility of compensating for the loss of agricultural and forestry production for the purchase of land for social purposes. Article three, part two, has to be explained as follows. If only a portion of the land is to be removed in the public interest or on the grounds of social necessity, and the rest of the area does not meet the need for rational use of land according to its tax assignment, the land is purchased at the request of the landowner. In the bill, the owner of the land only has the right to demand a full ransom. Article 15, part two. The termination of ownership of the purchased property does not take place after the court’s decision but after full compensation to the former owner. Article 17, part five. The lease of the purchased land is only possible for social purposes, not for one of the terms of the lease. Article 17 Part 6 in cases where the need for land use disappears, a part of public authorities or local governments may decide to alienate it from private property, but the former owner of the property in which it was forcibly removed before. Which should be reported for transfer to private property. In addition, there must be a time limit during which forced redeemed land cannot be transferred to private property again. It is also appropriate to limit the amount of the payment for the compulsively redeemed land to the previous owner of the amount paid to him if the authorities or local authorities did not use the land. Article 19. Part 2. The amount paid for the land should consist of the market value of the land and compensation for the loss of private property rights. This section requires judges to make decisions about a compulsory ransom that does not at all correspond to the Constitution because no one has the right to intervene in the proceedings. Article 20. The sum of the ransom on the ground should include the cost of bank recalculations. Article 22. If the land is bought for social purposes, which time will not be used for the purpose, the former owner must have the dominant right to rent this land. Article 23. Part 2. It only works under conditions of war or state of emergency. Article 24. Part 3. The procedure for resolving financial matters involves the return of purchased land, not the Cabinet of Ministers, but the Office of the Ransom. Article 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u129	I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u130	I apologize for this bill I will pass. Many articles that need harmony. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're finalizing a draft law on land secession, private property rights, if you allow me, I would like to point out by one thesis that obviously in this law we should provide for regulators and insurers to protect the rights of landowners -- first and foremost. The other one. In the matter of alienation, we need to change the ideology to the point that the law must protect people's rights. If you take a government bill, it goes so far that you have to prove your right. If she disagrees with the assessment of the earth and with the motives of the alienation, she should go to court. And if you look at the government bill, I don't envy the person who goes to court because she can't get all the documents. So you probably need that initiator, the government authority, he has to go to court. We live in the old world. That man must prove that he is not a thief, not the other way around. And I think that if we follow that principle, we're going to have the alternative bills that we have. For example, Paul Sulkowski’s bill in this regard is better distinguished. We must put man first, not the state, as we do all the time. And obviously that's what we need to take into account in the bill. A review of the draft Law on Land Deprivation of Private Property has been completed. Thank you. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. Let us move on to the State Committee on Land Resources, Danielenko Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! It's in the Bills and in the First and Second Bills that this rule is reflected primarily in the protection of the owner of the land and property. And they're essentially parallel bills and they reflect the same standards. I'd like to propose the following. Taking into account the speeches made by the national MPs, who made many concrete proposals to improve the bill and criticized both the first and the second, to make such a proposal to form a working group on the basis of two bills, to make, to prepare a powerful bill that is needed for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u133	Dear national deputies, then made up, are called upon to conclude that the whole couple have gone off the rails. We've been looking at it, and now we've got a working group. We obviously had to have a working group at the time this bill was being drafted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u134	It is, it's an agrarian committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u135	Thank you. Let's move on to the section, with a reduced procedure, to the discussion of drafts. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws concerning the powers of the Ministry of Defence is being announced for consideration. Reporter - State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine Viktor Ivanovich Banny. Is there a Victor Ivanovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u136	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, there are proposals for the introduction of two minor amounts, but in my opinion, significant additions to the existing legislation that correct the notions of international cooperation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The need to do so is related to continuing to work on the legislative regulation of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff for a clearer distribution of their powers. As is known, the documents governing the international cooperation of the Ukrainian Armed Forces are the Ukrainian Defence Act and the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act in the 2000 edition. According to the rules of these laws, the Ministry of Defence is responsible for the exercise of military and military technical cooperation with the relevant State authorities of other States. At the same time, the standards of these laws do not fully match the realities of today and the practice of international military cooperation, so they need to be adjusted and amended accordingly. Today, within the framework of the mandate of the General Staff, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine is responsible for carrying out military and political cooperation, cooperation on international arms activities, standardization and defence research and technology. The General Staff is responsible for military cooperation, military and political cooperation, and for cooperation in peacekeeping. Therefore, the need for additions to the defence and military laws is due to changes in the internal political system of the State’s social life in various areas, such as the adoption of the concept of administrative reform in 1998. So putting military-political cooperation on the ministry and, in particular, on the Ukrainian Defence Minister, as a political figure, is perfectly logical. The draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine is based on the relevant provisions of the Constitution and other legal instruments which define the procedure for the legal regulation of the organization and the activities of the Armed Forces with regard to international cooperation. The aim of the draft law is to improve and specify in accordance with the Constitution, the legislative acts of Ukraine and the practice of international cooperation in the State, the functions of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Armed Forces as part of their cooperation in the areas of military, military, military and technical cooperation and other directions of international cooperation. The practical significance of this draft law is that the laws on defence and on the Armed Forces and the other legal instruments agreed with them will fully regulate the order of implementation by the Ministry of Defence and the Genstab of International Cooperation. The main functions of the Ministry and the General Staff regarding their activities are the subject of legal regulation of the draft law. The draft law expands the functions of the Ministry and the General Staff in the field of international cooperation and contributes to the tasks of the defence, which are entrusted to them by the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers. The implementation of the law does not require additional financial and material costs. I propose to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u137	Thank you, Victor Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Ivanovich Domanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The committee considered the draft, and we saw that the bill proposed to amend the Defence Act two amendments to two articles and the Armed Forces Act three amendments. This expands the functions of the Ministry of Defence, refines the issue of military and political cooperation. Military, technical and military-civil cooperation with the states-military forces, the states we are cooperating with. The committee asks and invites the Supreme Council to accept them as a basis of what. Victor Ivanovich, and on Thursday he even accepted the whole so that the law would take effect. This does not require any additional funds, but it will simply bring all our laws in order for the Ministry of Defence to work fully and with full responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Your opinion on this bill. Well, we have to ask. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Oh, from that flank, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yes, that table, please, is the name of the national MPs who are registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'm sorry about our time and therefore, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and unfortunately for the suffering people, you're right, because what's being put into discussion right now is a very, very narrow question. I understand Victor Ivanovich Banny's great professional, and he even said that little changes to the law are being proposed. In fact, the programme approved by the State Cooperation Programme of Ukraine with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization of NATO 2001-2004, which was approved in January 2001 by its decree, President Kuchma of Ukraine, has actually defined civil-military cooperation and so on. I'm asking our theorists today. Please tell me what a "military relationship" is. And these are the functions of the Foreign Ministry a little bit. And what is "civil-military relations" with the relevant authorities of other states? Is that what this is? Well, let someone say your theory. No one will. Just as it was written in an explanatory note that the main functions of the Ministry of Defence are the subject of regulation of this law. but there were always no functions regulated by law, but legal relations in a certain area, in the field of defence. It's me, Victor Ivanovich, that you're a great professional and, I think you'll make a note to those who have prepared this explanatory note. Because such documents need to be prepared at a higher level. Will something change if we accept these images, or will it not change? Absolutely nothing, the sun will rise in the East and set in the West. Nothing will change if we write in one law or another, we add the defence law to the law, and we add to the law the Ukrainian Armed Forces, that is, a substantial change in these bills, no funding in the Armed Forces will be added. Will this help the Ministry of Defense? I don't think it's going to help him, because he'd rather have the money to fly planes, to train people, and for that there's no money in the state budget today. And I think the Prime Minister, instead of asking these questions and helping the military today, is downloading the Supreme Council with these man-made projects. I figured out that there's a total of 16 lines proposed here, 16 secondary lines. So nothing bad will happen if we bring it in, we accept it. But, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, I am addressing you once again when you show the Prime Minister how to work with legislative acts, show this bill and say, well, you don't have to overturn the Supreme Council of Ukraine on such trifles, called "To make changes to certain laws of Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u141	Thank you. Let's not waste time on that. Please, Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski. But do you support the decision to make, yes, Yuri Anatolyevich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u142	Lvivska, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, honourable voters, my view of this bill, which has been passed, as in that anecdotes, "you can't dig." You can accept it, you can't take it, it's totally not important, it's solidarity with Karmazin, because it's the Commander-in-Chief, who is the President of the Ukrainian State at the same time. Because of this, it is obvious that politics must come primarily from him and from the President, international politics and the international relations of our Armed Forces. The other question is that this President needs to be a patriot to really worry about the state, not just his family and his immediate environment, then everything would be normal in its place and it wouldn't be necessary to accept these things. However, I went up to this rostrum because my constituency is deeply militarized, in the good sense of that word, and there are a lot of military people who voted for me. Most of all, in the area of the Yavorov region is the famous, largest in Europe, the Yavorov region, where Natovian learning is taking place. I understand how it wasn't easy, of course, to prepare this range to accept from many civilized, very well-developed countries, equipped in a military sense, the countries behind these ruins of ours that are there. But the other question is, as an MP, I just want to know, and based on what the State Secretary of the Ministry of Defense is here right now, I've asked several times my questions, but I haven't found out exactly. My constituents are interested in the Veleten region, they're learning for peace, you know where they're taking part in the 10-12th, like when, in countries, they're being trained, they're being shot. Another question is, how did this range get built when thousands of people were evicted from there? And you yourself realize that today people are violating the same compensation, let it be too late, but they must be. So I'm asking the question, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. General, I'm asking the question: if these international agreements are concluded, this is also the subject that we are discussing today. If such international agreements are to be concluded, they must have this world rule, the world’s fashion, if you want, is certainly one of the environmental harms. And there has to be a very specific amount. I am absolutely convinced that environmental damage, this is the sum that should remain in the region. That's where he's supposed to be. I'm going to try to do that. If, for example, there is even a need, a bill will have to be passed, but I would not want it to be as petty as the one we are considering today. And as for the vote, once again, vote as you please. You can accept it, you can't accept it -- the situation in our poor army right now in Iraq, because I voted unequivocally against what we have today on our smoldering, dimmed UASach at a 40-degree temperature serving there, that's what we need to think about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u143	Yes, we still have Michaela Melniczuk and Taras Cnerovil. I'd like to ask very briefly, distinguished colleagues. It was as if the problem had been understood.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u144	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region It is logical, then, that the amendments proposed in this bill should be adopted. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support this bill. It is also quite logical that the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, as a political figure, should be tasked with military and political cooperation. It is quite logical that the bill will be voted on tomorrow. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! When I finish my speech and offer, I want to make a point. On the following Wednesday, a bill on milk and dairy products was considered in this room, which was supported by you. In the evening, I'm watching "Inter," a comment comes from a man who should be discussing this bill right now. And what he said. How is it that milk costs less than gas? Well, it's a piece of milk. But what is even more surprising is that this sign did not support this bill the next day. And in general, the Inter program takes comments on drafts in those MPs who are not even present in the room. We're here in the hall, we know who's discussing the bill. Why fool the people of Ukraine? On the other hand, he says he supports the bill, and on the second day he does not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u145	Taras Chernobyl, please. Now, one minute. It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u146	I'm very short. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. I support this law, like those laws that, nevertheless, let them be, as Carmazin says, and very petty, but in some ways help to solve some of our army's tasks, which are aimed at international cooperation. I understand that today the decision is made by the person who is given, to the great regret, I think, in this case, the title of the Supreme Commander, who is not in line with these functions because of the actions that are being done with our army and the state that is in our army. And this law almost adds the possibility of some initiation and some negotiation process, involving the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff. I have two technical warnings to him, two small ones that will probably not affect the decision when voting. First. It's about the civilian army. Indeed, there is no such concept. We need to make civil-law relations, an army that comes into contact or with local self-government authorities, as Vladimir Yavorowski spoke about, or with foreign states, with certain services, it has a whole range of civil-law relations that need to be carried out. That's why "civil law" has to be. And with regard to these two points that allocate the functions of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff. As far as I'm concerned, it wouldn't hurt. It's kind of a clarification to add that the Ministry of Defense in international contacts performs a strategic function, the General Staff is tactical. This refinement would help to solve some problems. Then the bill is small enough, and it can be adopted without harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, why don't we stop this discussion? On behalf of the National MP, head of the committee of Domansky and then Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u148	Dear National Deputies! If Comrade Karmazin doesn't understand what civilian-military co-workers are, it's the preparation of citizens of a civilian state to defend or solve a particular issue. And secondly, what did Mr. Yavorowski say, why is there one on Yavor? I walked and walked more than a dozen miles [10 km], serving in the Armed Forces. So why doesn't he ask the question when we vote for permission to instruct other Powers into the territory of the Yavora region?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u150	That this would be the course of the Javorah. Thank you, I think we should back up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u151	A black man, please, Vladimir Cherniak. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u152	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak. The "Our Ukraine" faction of the Ukrainian People's Party. Those MPs who spoke out of this question in one voice said that the bill is not important, I don't exactly share this point of view in it is one important point that raises one major question for me. This is about expanding the functions of the Ministry of Defence in the field of international cooperation. Especially in the field of military and political cooperation. Now, I have doubts as to how much can we give, how can we extend the rights of the Ministry of Defence in the field of military and political cooperation. This raises the question of how the Ministry of Defense interacts with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Commander-in-Chief is a political issue. So I have certain doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u154	The other one. There is not a very important point to be made about the Ministry of Defence's responsibility for these international agreements for the damage that may be caused, particularly for environmental damage. I had to write that down, and it's not there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u155	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. Alexander Baranowski one minute. Please, Baranowski. The faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u156	The Socialist faction. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm going against this bill first because it's so vaguely prepared and secondly, can we extend the mandate of the Ministry of Defense until we have civilian control? And what's being done today in the Ministry of Defense is, for example, I'm at the Zitomir Military Institute, when there's bribery, there's bribes going on today, when they're selling the forest to the side, when people are killing it all, it's all being hidden, and the Supreme Council commission, the Defense Department commission, is revealing everything, and then, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, after the relevant documents that they've sent, the Defense Department committee is going to go, and you know, it's all smooth. So there's not everything in that house, and it's good, and it's not good today to expand some authority until there's no civilian control -- it's even dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u157	Vasil Gavriluk. Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention, the law is not worth the egg, but we're wasting time on the instincts here. Vasil Gavriluk, followed by Carmazin. Basil Gabrieluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u158	I just want to make some points. Of course, there is a need to expand the powers of the Ministry of Defence. But in fact, somehow, we do not have a clear position today, and the Ministry of Defence is failing in that regard, establishing effective civilian control over the armed forces is the first. And the second. The Secretary of State, I would like to draw your attention to the impression that no one thinks of the consequences of this increase in cooperation. As a former military officer, I remember a time when the State's military secret with the USSR was at a very high level, and today this issue is nowhere to be addressed, nowhere to be taken into account. I would also like this work to be guided by this, to raise the State's secret and, above all, the military secret in the armed forces of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u159	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, my last name has been mentioned here, on account of what I don't understand, the issue of civil-military relations. So what I'm saying is, first of all, we can't extend to the limitless functions of the Ministry of Defence, remembering that we have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's different. We will have civilian control only if we have a civil secretary of defense, and when we have patriotism, then we will have state secrets. Because now 16 people in the United States are studying military cooperation in our country and are simply allowed to do so. So it has nothing to do with civil-military relations in international cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Ministry of Defence powers has been reviewed. We'll make a decision tomorrow. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur of the Committee on Science and Education, Kafarsky Vladimir Ivanovich. The committee proposes that this issue be officially considered for three minutes. [[it's written here.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u162	I'll bet. In the past, we adopted the Higher Education Act, but a number of articles sparked controversy in the hall. Among them was article 23, part four, which defined a specific number of students who would go to state-owned and commercial universities. So we compromised and adopted paragraph four in such an editorial that in government and commercial universities admission of students to state education should be 51 percent. Hall agreed to transfer this position to the End of the Law and put it into effect since 2003. To this day, we cannot clearly determine how many students are being trained in the government’s colleges. The other one. We don't know if these students are fully funded by government procurement. Third. It is not always the money that comes from the government budget that comes to colleges on time. The unions are forced to look for these funds from their own, they say, made on a commercial basis and paid for, in fact, the work, and the training of the students of government procurement. There are positions that can introduce other forms of pay to students for learning. Learn this question. We have not been able to complete this issue, so we ask that we move the action of the Final Provisions, or article 4, paragraph 4, of article 23, from 2003 to 2005, so that we have time to learn more about the matter. The committee supported that position. All the members of the committee voted in favour, except for one who abstained from voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Have a seat. Please. Minister of Education and Science Kremen Vasil Grigorovich. Please, Vasil Grigorovich. Well, we can get out of here faster. The position of the Ministry and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u164	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Ministry of Education and Science is very much asking, in turn, to accept the proposal of the Committee on Science and Education. This is a compromise decision that is the most intelligent one today. I would like to say that the government will continue the practice of increasing government procurement. Over the last two years, we've grown 12 percent this year, plus 3 percent, plus the government order. But at the same time, the financial possibilities are not such as to introduce this position from the Final Provisions of the Higher Education Act as of this year, and we are grateful to the committee, Stanislav Mikolaiovich, to other colleagues for understanding this situation and going to suggest that the Supreme Council postpone the entry into force of this project for two years. Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished national MPs, the Ministry of Education and Science is asking a lot, and in the next two years we'll add it to the government's order. I would like to say that the government has adopted a new position over the days on lending to state-owned people who want higher education. 2 introduced principled things. First. Thus, credit is allowed not only to those who enter the 1st grade but to those who learn to pay. But there's a need after 1 or after 2 courses to get credit. And the second principle thing. It is not allowed to repay a loan if a person has left and has worked in a village for 5 years in a state or municipal form of property. I mean, and this form of lending will also allow you to increase the funding of colleges and support young people who want higher education. I would very much like to support this bill tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u165	So now we can only discuss it, dear colleagues. So let's put it on the board, who signed up for the performance. But we're going to talk about two pros -- two opposites, no other ones. Two or two, so I say two for, two against. Yuri Karmazin begins, Volodymyr Puzakov follows him. Let's get started, please. Are you out of town? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I'll save time, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The project provides for a deadline for the entry into force of part four of article 23 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, which establishes the maximum number of students admitted to higher education institutions under the State. As the minister reports, now the Ministry of Education is really taking serious measures to improve the ability to acquire education for people and socially vulnerable people, including those who have worked in the village for five years. I really like the Ministry's actions, and I welcome them. True, I now wonder whether it is worth moving to 2005 or if the ministry will be able to do these things by 2004. And because most members of the committee and experts think that even before 2004, even they won't be able to, and by adopting the law, we wanted to do the best we could, and we wanted to intensify these search for a way out of the situation so that the number of students admitted to the first course of education at the state level would be as high as possible. And we want it now, so I think we need to adopt this law right now in the first and second readings, as a law, because it's very important right now, before the opening exams, or else it won't make any sense. So I would ask you to adopt the law in the first and second reading. And I'm asking the committee to take this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u167	Thank you. Who else would like to make a statement? Please, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u168	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradish. The most serious problem with higher education is the lack of really funding. In the past ten years, only those who work with students who study at the expense of the state and partly for utilities have been paid for their salaries. It's about student self-government. Article 38, paragraph 5, every university has a higher body of student self-government, whose name is the Student Parliament, the Senate, the Council, and so on. It is recognized by this body or by the statute of a higher educational institution itself. As we can see, a system of thinking is imposed on students by a loud Ukrainian mentality. We all know that the best idea in the word "content" is best expressed. "Work of the Faculty," "Work of the Union", "Work of the Group." Who needs to be introduced into the Senate self-government unit, the Department, the Parliament, etc. This is not just a waste of language but also a destruction of Ukrainian culture. Article 38, paragraph 3, lists the tasks of a student self - government organization, many of them. But none of them emphasize the patriotic upbringing, the devotion, the service of the Ukrainian people, the desire not only to acquire knowledge, to improve them, but also to give to the people by shaping and deepening the very characteristics of Ukrainian culture, nobody cares. That's why, as students finish their studies, they want to run away from Ukraine, and when they're in practice abroad, they come back and praise this overseas. Already there they cease to be Ukrainians, and most importantly they lose their desire to serve the people. Representatives of higher education ask that there be no restriction on the admission of students to a commercial form of education, as stated in article 23, paragraph 4. First of all, it allows a higher education institution to make money to improve its material and technical base. Second, jobs are created or stored for science and education workers. Thirdly, young people, who have spent five years in a university lab, will benefit the state more than specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Who else would like to make a statement? Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u170	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Yavorowski, Jovkovsky. The honourable election and honourable deputies that these electors have chosen! I am convinced that for many of you, as for me personally, voting for this law will not be as easy as it seems. On the other hand, I understand the minister and the ministry very well. We're facing a reality that we can undo. Our law doesn't change anything for the better. But I just want to take this opportunity to remind you once again, dear fellows, that we have destroyed virtually today with the complete faith there, in the root system of our people, not at the top, but that we have completely destroyed the faith that a talented child today can easily receive higher education. Let me not be offended by Vasil Grigorovitch, I deeply respect him, it may be my favorite ésdecé that I know in Ukraine at all, here. Let him not be offended, but he may well know, only he may be afraid to confess himself, or he does not say out loud that today this so - called public teaching is worth more than it pays, for he too has to be paid for it. And people know that very well. That's why I'd like to go up to this rostrum for the one and only. My fellow countrymen! Honorable representatives of executive power! You heard Kafarsky speaking, as he spoke, Mr. Kafarsky, I remember your name here, sacred to me. I mean, you said yourself here that some part of the money doesn't go away, some part of it goes away. So maybe let's get to the bottom of this country, let's do what you are, let's see, the pitiful budget that they are to get to the student, to get to the rectors of the university, then maybe I'll get back to the next time, I'm afraid we're going to put the same thing in front of that same fact. They'll say, "There's no other way out. There's no money." As a result, this 51 percent, which is in the 27th article, cannot be accepted again. That's the point. And so, Vasil Grigorovitch, sleep in peace, the law will pass tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u171	Who's next? Boris Bespali. But we agreed, two-for-two-again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u172	Boris Bespaliy, "Our Ukraine", M. Kiev. Honorable colleagues, as the national deputy Cherniak rightly pointed out, have little text — this does not mean that the law is petty. In my opinion, this bill is extremely important. But I'm going to allow myself to pay your attention, dear fellows, that if we postpone the deadline for the entry into force of the 51 percent norm of bad luck, the problem will still remain, it will arise in two years and so on. In general, the government order, it's not a stable quantity, it's not a stable quantity in the section of specialty, so in some years, you need, for example, more health workers, more teachers or engineers. So there's also differentiation. It's not stable in the territories. Once more, we have considered the problem of depressive territories today, perhaps more government procurement should be in these areas. And then there's the colossal. What, then, should the higher education institutions that are not provided with government contracts be simple? This is complete absurdity and nonsense. And in general, I think this 51 percent norm, it actually takes two years not as long as it cancels. Also, in my opinion, there has to be. I am convinced that within the licensed range, public public educational institutions have no right at all to refuse government procurement. It's going to be 51 percent, 7 percent is a state institution, as many as the state has ordered, they have to accept everyone. And they can use the rest of the licensed volume for their own reasons. There's another problem that's only in the educational sphere that I'm happy to have the head of the profile committee speak after me, and I think he'll respond to that too. In all, without exception, other sectors of government procurement is extended to non-state enterprises -- this applies even to defence. This comes out of the Constitution where there is equality. This comes out of the Law on the Purchase of State Goods by State Services of Goods and Works. That's why I think we just need to not postpone this law to a standard that would also allow for the placement of government orders in non-State educational institutions. Because there are specialties that are, say, artificial, few and so forth. It's already the right of the state to place orders. I wouldn't want to delay that. And one more problem I'd like to draw the profile committee's attention to. Yesterday, the People's Deputy Pinzenik rightly called attention to the fact that there was some kind of suspension of the law on pensions for science and technology workers. So I hope, this Thursday, tomorrow, we will vote in favour of this law, and next Thursday, we will finally vote in favour of unfortunate pensions for poor science and technology workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u173	For reasons, please, Stanislaw Nikolayenko. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u174	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. I'd like to go to the National Deputies today, because I was just the deputy on the committee who stuck to the adoption of this law so that we could do everything we could next year to get this rule to work. How? We need to increase education funding so that we don't spend 4.3 percent of GDP, but at least 9-10 percent. And then we wouldn't talk about commercialization of higher school. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies, the members of the budget committee, and, God forbid, you will support the government's ideology of transferring universities from the status of budgetary institutions to the status of recipients of budgetary resources. If we do that, we're going to destroy all of our higher education commercialize it, privatize it, destroy it, and it's going to be Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and so on. Last one. I'd like to ask the government today to abandon its proposal to regulate budget students, 180 students per 10,000 population. Because if we cancel this, we're going to cover the way for children from poor families to learn. I would like to ask the government to control its decisions. Vladimir Mihajlovich, they make a decision 200 thousand to the colleges, and then we make fewer numbers. Today, the Minosvets, I must say, to the honor of the Kremlin of Basil, the Minister of Education, that they have taken up the issue of control. But if you'll excuse me, MPs, do you not have enough time to walk around and tell us why all over the pay forms of preparation, the government has accepted 200,000 at the reception should be 200,000, 140,000 at first, and another 60,000 are bachelors and masters. Then thank you so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u175	One minute, Master Replicator, and then Cherniak. Then Ustenko. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u176	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Mystrishyn district number 14 member of the Budget Committee. I was just about to say, Vasil Grigorovovich, that I support the position of government procurement, and I think it's the right form that will really help the social measures that we have in the village today, including. But let's think about, let's say, the use of budget funds is not the target. Let's take a look at how many college graduates are actually working in production today either in school or in budget institutions. Perhaps as an idea, perhaps some of these funds could be used to accompany this young specialist in manufacturing or in the same budgetary institutions. Maybe part of the cost is going to be directed to support his first year or two when he's going to work and to be able to support him, maybe that's the idea I'd like to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u177	Vladimir Cherniak. Then Ustenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! I'm against adopting this bill. The system of higher education now has a fatal contradiction. Smart, but poor, can't get an education; rich, but not very smart, can get an education. This trend inevitably leads to the degradation of our society. Commercialization of higher education leads to social degradation. We have a discrepancy between financial and property elites and intellectual elites. If we're going to bet only on the financial elite, we're going to be dealing with degradation. You have to give the opportunity, you have to give the gifted, capable, talented young people an opportunity to get an education. So we set the right standard, and now we have to think about how to implement it. The quota of those receiving State education cannot be reduced. But, of course, fighting bribes. That's where you have to show your skill to the authorities. I'm against adopting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u179	Ustenko Alexander Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ustenka, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! There is a moment here that has to do with seeing the essence and the salt of the question. No one reduces the government’s order. I've been a rector for 31 years, and I want to tell you that almost no poor, gifted person has ever passed a government order. There's just a little bit of an exaggeration here. See, there are various features of the higher educational institutions of Kiev and the periphery. Today, to reject this standard means to be able to prepare for the better reception of these students, the graduates. We're going to move for two years. During this time, both the government and the ministry will be prepared to deal with these issues. Today, this rule will simply lead to the collapse of a higher school. Why? On the committee, we've been looking at questions -- medical schools have used 270 million dollars in their bracelet labs -- for new installations and for pulpits, as well as for medical clinics. This was the same thing as 22 vases of agrarian identity. Today, this rule is lacking and, among other things, the government’s order does not suffer. Just like Kabmin gave 60,000, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u182	I'm done. Thank you. Consider this question. High school is in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u183	It's a motive. So it's written. What can I do, dear colleagues? Turn on the Microphone of the Czernovetsk People's Deputy. Yes, the honourable people's deputies, the consideration of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u184	You just turned me on, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Come on, let me have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u185	The law is closed. A draft law on the Society for the Defence of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur - national deputy of Ukraine, Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich. Please, very briefly. Well, we can't wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u186	Viacheslav Koval, faction of our Ukraine, the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Today, your view is presented with a new version of the Ukrainian Defence Society Bill, which, according to the authors, takes into account all the comments received from the Ukrainian National Deputies, party groups, factions, or subjects of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All remarks are in agreement. Agreed comments and suggestions from the ministries and departments that were presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The adoption of this law is very timely, for the Society for Defence is the only civil union in Ukraine that makes the government’s procurement of conscripts for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations of our nation. The Society is actively involved in the military and patriotic training of young people, the development of aviation, technical, military-applicable sports, the preparation of personnel from mass-technical occupations for the national economy of the country. I think you all know the plight of our native airlines today. Because of the lack of funds, they are deprived of the ability to provide their graduates, flight specialists, with minimal skills needed. With the help of the Association for the Defense of Ukraine, some vases have done this task for themselves. For example, I can refer to the Kyrovograd Aviation Academy. which, for several years, works with the Korovograd Air and Sports Club of the Society and thus provides its students with initial flight training on JC-52 planes. The main issue that may be of interest to Ukrainian national deputies in voting for the bill is the allocation of additional budget for the activities of society. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Society does not receive direct budgetary funding. Costs from the state budget go to the funding of military commissioners who, in turn, make calculations with appropriate associations for the execution of contracts for the preparation of eligible youths. I'll also point out that the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine is funding the programme by only 30-40 percent of the planned programme. In this regard, the Society’s support of its own resources is being funded by the educational project it has carried out. But in order to remove the possible emphasis of mistrust from the hall, from the Ukrainian national MPs on the bill, the authors suggest that article 20, which sounded, should be deleted. It was called "Societies for the Society, its local centres", which they created enterprises, institutions and organizations to tax their income and pay for the land they own, and to take this to the final position with the corresponding mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The need for the adoption of the Act is due to the special social character of the Ukrainian Defence Association, which has been taking place since 1927. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the context of the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the law on the TSOW is essential. After all, this society will rely on additional tasks: teaching methodological, educational, and preparatory work with our young people. If the Ukrainian army moves to professional training, the Society will be able to provide a valuable reserve for the Ukrainian Armed Forces by preparing and raising patriotic youths. Because the Ukrainian army needs not only physically hardened but also patriotic soldiers, but also adequately trained young men, who will make up a reserve of the army. This issue is relevant and applies to the entire population of Ukraine. Because there are millions of children and young people in the community's knowledge of society, for whom military and patriotic and physical education is part of the educational process. The bill also regulates relations in the field of sports aviation, aviation sports, and regulates their activities. The adoption of this law will facilitate the legal regulation of a number of specific tasks that are not found in existing legislation. Dear National Deputies! Please support the proposed bill and vote for it in the first reading. And finally. Ladies and gentlemen, that this is not some kind of political project of some part of our Parliament, at least the composition of the national MPs who are the authors. There are representatives of the Communist Party, there are representatives of our Ukraine, there are representatives. There is also the national deputy of Sharov, the national deputy of Bahtiev, the national deputy of Katherina Vaschuk, is the national deputy of Petrov. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u187	Everyone has questions. You'll be speaking. Have a seat, please. We're following a reduced procedure. Please, Petrov Oleg, coreporter, head of the committee’s subcommittee on youth policy, physical culture, sports, and tourism. Oleg Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u188	Dear Chief, Honourable People's Deputies! Your consideration is given the third, fundamentally new version of the draft Ukrainian law on Associations for Defence of Ukraine. As you recall, the first version of this bill was already under consideration and discussed in the session hall on November 19, 2002. On November 28, the Supreme Council decided to refer that version of the law to read again. But on January 16, this year, he did not get the required number of votes. During the inter-sessional period of January 28, our committee held a round table with the participation of the national deputies, the heads of the regional TSO organizations of Ukraine, the drafters of the bill went into trouble again, listened to the wishes of the experts, received and processed hundreds of comments from many present in this room. Today’s bill is fundamentally different from previous ones. It's enough to say that today's bill has 27 articles against the 110s that we discussed in November. In the new version of the bill, almost all factions and groups that had been highlighted by the previous reporter were involved. In particular, the drafters removed from the text a position document that is subject to the standardization of legally responsible public organizations. These are local organizations, associations, the structure of society, association, and so forth. The most critical remarks were made at the address of the articles that freed society from paying taxes and other payments, and I will not repeat my colleague who spoke to me accordingly. This article was also canceled. Clarification was made in the text of article 22 regarding the service of military personnel assigned to association with the Armed Forces and other formations. It's an offer from the Ministry of Defense. It was deleted, at the suggestion of the Ministry of Defence, by articles on the organization of socialization in general schools and other secondary and higher educational institutions of military and patriotic discipline, as this is the norm of legal acts. At the suggestion of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the Ministry of Finance and Aviation and the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, articles on costs related to certification, registration and re-registration of aviation technology for sports purposes, legal and natural persons were deleted. The drafters took into account more than 30 comments made by Kuzma, Hubski, Hapochka, and others. I would also like to emphasize once again the comments made by individual national deputies regarding the financing of public organizations from the state budget. Once again, I emphasize that society has not been financed by the state budget for its entire existence. Expenses are directed only by military commissioners and directly to funding at the educational sites of the individual educational institutions of the Society for the preparation of attractive young people. In doing so, there is considerable underfunding for the educational process. Dear colleagues, I'm sure we've noticed how qualitatively and quantitatively the copyright team of the bill has changed. We are deeply grateful that the need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Defence Society Bill was supported by the factions that the previous report stressed here. We were asked to pay attention to the fact that, unlike other public organizations, the Society has a specificity related to the execution of a government order for training specialists for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I mean, getting young people jobs like a car driver, a carjacker, a tractor driver, and others that support the social protection of young people. The proposed bill is supported by the National Security and Defence Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on budget issues, on finance and banking issues, as well as by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please accept the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u189	Thank you, too. Ivan Mihovich is a faction of Communists from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, we are not looking at this bill for the first time. There's been a lot of discussion, he's worked out enough, and there's some other factors that are holding him back. I suggest we don't go any further, because we're going to do it again. The relevance of it has been demonstrated by both the committee and the factions on more than one occasion. Let us determine tomorrow and today continue to work on other bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u191	No objection, dear colleagues? All right, then we're going to go straight to procedure: two in, two in, and no more speeches. Please report to the sign-up board. George Carmazin, say directly: Why, or against the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know I'm always in charge of protecting the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u193	Let's not compete, and you say, are you in favour or against the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u194	I told you I'm in. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you didn't actually take the word for motive, so what's that for? You don't have to be nervous about the session. Ladies and gentlemen, in March 1923, 81st year, was the creation of the All-U.S. Air and Aviation Society. And that's how the society started to promote the defence of Ukraine. This is the Jubilee Year, and I welcome all those who have worked in this field, and I welcome those who do everything to protect Ukraine's athletic honour at the international level. And among the members of the Ukrainian team, 87 percent are the leaders of this society, and over the years, 95 times has been the Hymn of Ukraine in honor of the championships of aviation, technical and applied sports. How little is that? The Society for Defence is now one of the most mass social organizations in the state, which assists society in the patriotic upbringing of the population. What other organization is doing this? Nobody else. The bill lays down the basic principles of the Society’s activities, as reported today by the national deputy Koval, and the adoption of this law and its application will help to overcome negative spiritual phenomena, serve to restore the moral principles of society will oppose the promotion of rigidity, ingenuity, violence that will distract people, children from the streets, and reduce the number of those who will have to be held for public funds in prisons. Now, with regard to the aid article, which was said to be simply to be rejected. I would like to avoid confusing this with the benefits that are provided in free economic zones or in other areas, look at the content of article 20, and it says that when health, amateur, sports education and other activities are carried out that do not provide for profit in accordance with the relevant laws. Then there are some possible benefits. And these benefits can provide local self-government within the limits of your authority, imagine an airport where today airplanes of this aircraft fly to the defense society, and we're going to charge it with land tax on a full program, is it going to be state-owned or not? We can see that pilots cannot be prepared, and we and the young will not be prepared here. Is it possible that we're all going to be taxing or auto schooling everyone, and we're going to find people who are good, or has the bracelet closed our eyes there? That's why I'm here to leave 20 articles only within reasonable limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u195	Thank you, please, Deputy Polit. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u196	Faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Lenin Komsomol of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today's draft law on the Ukrainian Defence Society ends with a stopover in the myths of an organization that has a long history of romance and heroism. Let's remember, 100 staff members have been awarded the title of the Soviet Hero, including twice, and the name of the Soviet Union three times. Speaking of which, it's a different stats. Every year, sports organizations prepare 30-40 international-class masters, 100-150 Ukrainian sports masters. In spite of all the problems that exist, 942 medals have been won in 10 years by athletes, including 215 gold, 405 silver, and 322 bronze prizes. Regrettably, a society that had a colossal logistics base ten years ago and a considerable intellectual potential of high-level professionals, which had raised more than one generation of young citizens who had learned to love and protect their family, had been forgotten and abandoned to fate. Today we have a good opportunity to contribute to the great work of raising an adult generation based on patriotism. Since the activities of a defence society, a socially important organization that plays a significant role in the upbringing and training of an adult generation in the ranks of the Armed Forces, have remained unresolved, many issues remain open. All of this prevents society from fully operating, making effective use of the existing logistics base and the creative capacity of the collective. I believe that the bill under consideration must be supported in exactly the way it was submitted for our consideration. Its adoption would make it impossible to use logistical resources for purposes that were incompatible with those facing the organization. The draft Ukrainian Law on Society for Defence provides at least a partial solution to the employment and patriotic education of young people. The issue of the patriotic upbringing of young people has already been raised in this room, and undoubtedly it is of paramount importance, and in this we must be consistent with you. Moreover, this law will be a barrier to the activities of criminal organizations involving illegal paramilitary and criminal groups of young Ukrainians, as the natural drive of young people to technology and weapons will be sought for the benefit of society. With the adoption of the bill under discussion, which introduces the activities of the defence society within a strict legal framework, it will be impossible to disintegrate and disperse the logistics base created since 1927. I understand that someone does not benefit from this bill, but I believe that common sense and patriotism will prevail today. I suggest you support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u197	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, are you in favor or against this bill? Just a minute. Huh? Against? Please. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u198	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I am convinced that if I remove one article, the more faithful one rule that applies to this bill, it will be uninteresting and convinced that most of the developers will not be interested. And the point is that at a time when we have a total privatisation, and we have a public organization, there's an interest in such a bill. And he'll try to prove it. Here, by the way, privatization is going to be something else. It will allow the creation of enterprises, institutions and so forth, which, using state-provided assets, land, equipment, structures, infrastructures created over tens of years of activity, will benefit from the benefits provided by article 20 of this bill. From the tax premiums to the total tax exemption. And all of this is against the noble background of the good things and tasks that this organization has done so far. And here they're declared pretty well. Excluding perhaps individual ones. For example, with regard to the preparation of conscripts for the Armed Forces. It clearly says, "on a contractual basis under the terms of the State Budget." I mean, he lists the Ministry of Defense's funds, no matter where they go, through the military, no matter where they go, but these are the exact needs. And then you get the conscripts, the suitors. But this is the most important function for which this voluntary mass organization was created in its own time. And that's how this function is going to be performed. Moreover, what about the concept of the transfer of the Armed Forces to a contractual basis? Maybe we should wait and understand that maybe this structure is going to prepare for our troops, for the Armed Forces of future contractors. Next. This bill with the Ministry of Defence would probably have to be more clearly aligned. For some reason, there are no conclusions from the Ministry of Defence, including the order of the ministry. See what it says: Soldiers can be dispatched. What's the deadline? For five years, or six months, as in Iraq, it could be a mission for such a very important and complex job as the task of defense and so on. Can I retire? And that's how it's gonna be. How about jobs, how about establishments, and so on. I don't think this bill is acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u199	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, do you mind? So you're against me, please argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u200	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Voluntary associations promoting the army, the aviation, and the fleet have been renamed the Society for the Promotion of Defence. What did this give us? And one thing was that the state completely washed their hands. The Society should assist the State in the area of military and patriotic education, the preparation of recruitments for the Armed Forces, the development and improvement of technical applications and aviation sports. Whether the company can handle its function, of course not. Why? First of all, where do you get patriotism and a high moral spirit when every young person has no idea that you can stand up for? Where to raise funds for the development and improvement of technical, applied, and aviation sports, when the state does not spend any money on it. For example, our district society had a beautiful four - story room with well - equipped study rooms and squares. What now? Almost all the rooms are rented because there is a need to survive. And all societies live under fear, and they're about to pass the land sale law, even though Horoshkovsky says it's going to be good, but he didn't just say who's going to be good. Because it's a society with a lot of land, and it won't be able to pay for it, it's like a story about a stranger, except we have "unknowns" not on the moon, it's on the ground." Today, this organization does not even have an adequate security system, and the society cannot provide schools with adequate practical assistance in conducting military training. In other words, the employees of these societies are self-absorbed in this terrible watershed, as in reanimation, and you will survive, and you will not die. Thus, the adoption of this law should take into account: review the VAT, withdraw the fees for the preparation of conscripts for the Armed Forces, improve the quality of the preparation of conscripts for the Armed Forces. The earth under the control of society must become their property free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u201	Dear National Deputies! There were four national deputies, two in favour, two in front. So we're finalizing the draft law on the Association for the Defence of Ukraine. Decisions will be made in the proper order. A draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control and the law on the application of registers of accountancy transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services on the circulation of bank metals is under consideration. Leonid Czernewicki Reporter, Ukrainian National Deputy Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u202	Thank you, distinguished Presidency, distinguished people's deputies! Of course, I would like to hear my bill on the financing of courts today, rather than this one. Unfortunately, for some reason, it has not been debated for a long time and VAT. But still. There's a situation. When today's bank metal market works well in Ukraine. A lot of people have this metal that they unfortunately can't sell. My bill, which provides for amendments to the Cabinet Decree of Ministers, issued in 95. It is envisaged that these people will simply be able to pass it through exchange points as well as the usual currency. For all those who will read my speech on the website, I want to talk popularly about what a bank metal is. Bank metal is not platinum, it's gold and not silver. It's bank metal. It is not subject to VAT, it is imported without VAT as a normal currency. In all countries of the world, when a person has a piece, one gram or two grams of gold or platinum, he has the right to place that metal on a stand in any bank and must pay the equivalent of that metal in the currency in which that country operates. My bill is designed to solve the problem. What happened to us? In the year 98, I won the order, won the court, revoked the Minfin order, and authorized the sale of metal. But the purchase of metal by no one, since it is regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers decreed by law, has anyone applied it. That's why it turns out that people are holding hands today, and only the Pravexbank sells about a ton of metal a year. There's a huge amount of noble metals that they can't turn back. And the country is losing it. Because banks drive and drive and they can't accept. They can do it through a pawnbroker. But Lombard operations are not bank-specific. In France, guillotine was used for lombard surgery. And in general, it's not a good thing to take all the gold objects to the wreckage of the population that it needs. This requires special programmes. But that's a separate question. Now I'm talking about bank metals that have to be broken, what a craziness, it's just crazy, and then sent to the West for processing. I suggest that bank metals be admitted through points of exchange. And then less precious metals will be imported into Ukraine, and so the rate of the bracelet will be strengthened, because less currency goes into the country, that's understandable, right? I can talk about this further. It's no big deal anymore. He has the right to place a piece of metal at the exchange point and is obliged to give him a bracelet. Because we have a currency in the country, not a dollar, but a bracelet, by the way, for. Well, you want to ask me a question. I explained everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u203	Have a seminar, meet together. Now finish reporting the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u204	I finished my report. It's all clear. Today, it is not possible to exchange pieces of metal. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u205	Thank you. Leonid Mikhailovich, please sit down. Correspondent is the first Deputy Head of the Finance and Banking Committee, Victor Volodymyrovich Kapusin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u206	Dear National Deputies! The reporter, Mr. Czernowetský, explained in such a comprehensive and detailed way what bank metals are, what I should do with them, what I should do, and add nothing. But the committee, when we considered this issue, we came out of the fact that we really need to simplify this order. It needs to be made easy and clear to anyone who wants to buy or sell bank metals. In order not to do these operations in lmbardy operations, but to make ordinary bank operations available to everyone in Ukraine. The committee therefore supports this issue, this bill and considers it appropriate to adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u207	I thank you, too. On board, please, are the names of the national MPs who are listed in the discussion? Carmazin, School, Cherniak, and Hinzburg No one's here, either, so. Very briefly, I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u208	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. In fact, the bill that Leonid Chernewsky has just reported deserves tremendous attention, and he's very grateful because he's offering a way out today, how can we end the tinnitus, first of all, the economy this time. Secondly, how to end the economy's dollaration is two ways to push a dollar out of Ukraine today and the euro as well. And we won't worry the Ukrainians that we've been traveling 20 percent today, we'll only be concerned about the fact that the bracelet has gone down, we won't worry about anything else. Thus, once in the law on the use of registrars in accounting transactions in the field of trade and social nutrition and services, no reference was made to bank metals as a subject of regulation. This is explained only by the year that this law was enacted, which was in 1995 these transactions with these metals were carried out. But today is the year 2003. Today, 2003 and that's why I'm asking the question that we can add revenue to the state treasury so that we can push the dollar out of here so we can increase the country's currency potential and hit the shadow economy, which is now 50 percent. In civilized countries, all the questions that we call ourselves civilized countries, and we can say that because we don't have all the legislation yet, these issues have been solved 50-60 years ago. And it's all been there for a long time. And we make it look like it's not there. So in my opinion, this bill needs to be adopted as soon as possible and we will see how they go, the financial flows in the country will change completely, and Ukraine's national currency will be strengthened, and income will be strengthened in the state treasury of Ukraine. And let the dollars take the U.S. back. I'm in favour of the first and second reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u209	Honourable National Deputies, the review of the draft Act on Amendments to the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the system of monetary regulation and monetary control, the Act on the Application of Registers of Accountancy Transactions in Trade, Public Nutrition and Bank Metal Exchange Services has been completed. We'll make a decision on Thursday. If you don't mind, let's take a look at another bill and continue our work for another 10 minutes. A draft law on the introduction of supplements to the Ukrainian Law on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in Ukraine on the security of the card market is being announced. First Deputy Head of the Finance and Banking Committee, Viktor Volodymyrovich, Reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u210	Dear National MPs, I am reporting this law, I am speaking in the person of Mr. Tsushko the author of this law and in my own person, and there is no contradiction here, because we hold one thought about this law and the motivation for its adoption is because the use of payment cards in Ukraine over the last few years, in the last two years, has expanded very seriously, very significantly and in Ukraine there are currently more than 8 million payment cards in circulation. Of course, it takes some action for us to settle this issue, comparing it to the law that was passed earlier, and of course, with the massive arrival of payment cards to our country, of course, there are problems that have been established and exist in other countries where this circulation of payment cards is highly developed. Of course, there are some fraudulent things coming, some crimes that have been unknown to us before then, and of course we need to bring our legislation to standard legislation, European legislation on the circulation of payment cards to protect the market for payment cards and to protect settlement in payment cards. That's why this bill is coming to your attention. In fact, it refers to four points. It's monitoring operations, identifying and preventing the use of fake cards, it's improving the law of card surveillance, it's making microprocessor cards and coding of information transfer and exchange of information between participants in the card market. The committee has considered this issue and, given the arguments I have just brought to you, the committee supports this bill and considers it necessary to adopt it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-18-m0.u211	Thank you, Victor Vladimirovich. What will be the thoughts, fellow believers? Is it a problem to discuss or to understand the committee’s proposal? I'd like to support you. Then we will consider that the review of the draft Law on Supplements to the Law on Payment Systems and Transfer of Money in the Country on the Security of the Card Market has been completed. We'll make a decision tomorrow, that is, Thursday. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thanks for the job. Since 16 hours of work on committees and factions. Tomorrow is the day of the Supreme Council's decision. Thank you.
