ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please take your seats. Please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, take your seats! Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:33]] Registered - 417 There are 417 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5.2. Wednesday's regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'd like the National Deputies to sign up, and in the meantime, with your permission, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. Dear colleagues, before that, I would like to consult. We have questions if we vote, it'll probably take about an hour. There are questions for the President. And if you do that, vote separately the questions that go to the President, and then the list of requests will be made by everyone. With no objection from the deputies, we could vote for them immediately. Is there no objection? Thank you. A request was received from Ukrainian national deputies: Zarya Katusheva to the President of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of journalist Rashid Memishev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. It takes at least a third of the votes, I think. [[10:07:09]] For-173 Yes, supported. I'm betting on the vote to send the request to the President of Ukraine. To do this, a reminder takes 226 votes. [[10:07:34]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies: Karpov, Zarubinski, Shevchuk, Tolstouchov to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to strengthen the monitoring of Ukraine's decisions taken by the President. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:08:07]] For 168 Supported. I would like to vote on this motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:08:29]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Now, dear colleagues, I ask you to listen carefully, I will briefly publish all the questions. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of removal from the Ukraine State Budget for 2003 and. Please, a line. Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u2	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Your Honor, you know this is again a violation of the Rules and this is once again an innovation in our work. I'll tell you what's going on. As I ask, I would like to know which deputies supported my request and which do not support it. Well, let's lose 5 minutes or 10. What difference does it make? Well, we're just wiping everybody out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u3	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Since there is a denial, I ask each request separately. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of removal from the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003 and the redistribution of funds to finance the operations of the medical facilities of Urzliznice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:03]] For 165 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of the targeted use of funds for the closure of the Jenakiyev and South Komunarsk mines and for the provision of mining villages by telephone. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:34]] For 217 Decision taken. Oleg Tajnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the village of Olezko Buzek Region of Lviv Region, in particular the Museum of Commissioners of the Ole Castle. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:03]] For 227 Decision taken. Jaroslav Suhogo to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the response to the request for the transfer of the Ferro-Fero-Floor Plant to the first grade electricity consumption account. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:38]] For 158. Decision taken. Andrija Polita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the study of violations by the head of the Kyrovograd District State Administration of the constitutional rights of citizens of illegal interference with the operations of the central district hospital. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:10]] For 165 Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures taken by the government to ensure the right to participate in the next presidential election of five million Ukrainians outside Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:41]] For-163 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine to pay off the debt of social assistance to low-income families in the Hmielni district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:10]] For-195 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of the property rights of shareholders of the closed-circuit company of the company of the city of Suma. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:38]] For-167 For - 167, the decision is made. Raisie Bogatyrov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the second line of the Dnipro Donbas Channel. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:03]] For-152. For -152, the decision is made. Jury Orobac to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, for the transfer of buildings on the prospectus of Red Cossacks to clinic number 2 of Obolon district of Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:31]] For-179 For - 179, the decision is made. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation that has arisen in the Light Water Case Box combination of solid alloys and dreary metals. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:00]] For-173 For - 173, the decision is made. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of halting the educational process in the Hmeljna district trade schools due to the lack of funding for municipal services. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:29]] For-187 For - 187, the decision is made. Mikhail Siatini to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the dam and fortification of the banks of the river in the village of Berezovo in the Zakarpatsky region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:58]] For 204 For -204, the decision is made. Victor Yushchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of financing for the settlement of subsidies for the acquisition of solid fuel and compressed gas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:23]] For 231 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for delaying consideration of the application of a number of population items in the Ivano-Frankow region of mountain status. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:51]] For-174 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of the assignment and payment of subsidies and compensation to low-income citizens in rural areas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:20]] For 196 Decision taken. Oleg Tragnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure to comply with government decrees related to the liquidation of extraordinary situations in the cities of Broda and Borislav and the conduct of tours in the area of the Persenovka station of Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:53]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Matvienko, Lukjanenko, Omelchenko, Sitnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the violation of the requirements of the Nature Fund Act of Ukraine in the territory of the National Botanical Garden of the Name Grych. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:25]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikoli Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of the debt of benefits and compensation provided for in the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:56]] For 224 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka is with the prime minister of Ukraine on the financing situation under the program "State long-term debt credit for education". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:23]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of national deputies: Kruglov, Homutinnik and others - to the prime minister of Ukraine on the need to verify the reliability of payment statistics. We've voted on that before, haven't we? As regards the reliability of the statistics on salary payments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:01]] For a hundred and Mikoli Tomenka is the prime minister of Ukraine for publishing a report to the committee, ministers, the Council of Europe on the media situation in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:30.]] For 193 Decision taken. Oleg Zarubinsky is with the prime minister of Ukraine regarding the state of implementation of measures to ensure that regions are provided with a number of passport forms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:20:59]] For 139 Decision taken. Mikoli Bagraeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of the boiler house and the city of Tsurupinsk Herson district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:25]] For 201 For - 201, the decision is made. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the individual provisions of the Order of the State of Ukraine No. 79 of 22.08.2001 on the groundless provision of sponsorship to enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:03]] For a hundred and For -145, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies - Gurov and others, only 15 National Deputies - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the Crevice Mining-enriching combination of oxidized ores. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:31]] For 186 For -186, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies: Matvienko, Lukjanenko, Omelchenko, Sitnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kiev City Head for the financing of the National Kyiv-Peterian Historical and Cultural Reserve and the National Museum of Taras Shevchenk. I'll bet on the vote on the request. [[10:23:05]] For 203 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Pavlovsky, Turkinov, Belarus, Zubov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence, Attorney General of Ukraine on gross violations of the 2003 Act on the State Budget for Ukraine, related to the groundless development of the helicopter part located in the city of Berdichov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:43]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in the absence of an answer to the appeal regarding the delay in the proceedings before the Bagley Court of Dniprožinska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:11]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Alexander Moroz to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for a violation of the terms of appeal before the Supreme Court of Ukraine, citizen of Pavluk. [[City of Kirovograd]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:39]] For-164 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of the State in connection with the attack on the Kyiv Region's Complex Agrarians company on the property of the Ukrzovetpropostach manufacturing and scientific enterprise. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:12]] For-166 Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of tax evasion and money-laundering by the Simferopol Society with limited responsibility “KMT”. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:44]] For 148 Decision taken. John Tomić to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of land legislation in the write-off of melioritative systems and land breeding in the village of Uržajne Borislav in the Hersonian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:13]] For-144 Decision taken. Victor Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of legislation by officials of the Orizon Industrial Association of the city of Smil of the Cherkas region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:42]] For 118 Decision taken. Jaroslav Suhogo to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the response to the request for legal aid to the procurator-General, VAT "Motorsic". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:12]] For 175 Decision taken. Ivan Tomić to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the massive fall of cattle in the agro-firm "Starre" of the Kyiv region of Borispil. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:41]] For-157. Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the non-target use of the Main Administration of Justice of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of Budgets in a particularly large way. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:10]] For-142 Decision taken. Groups of People’s Deputies Kruglov, Homutinnik and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the reliability of statistics on salary payments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. No, the other wording was, dear colleagues. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:43]] For-141 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Michael Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the Regional Council of Law in the decision to transfer the lands of Polonina Adventure to the Jaremcan City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:18]] For 122 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the illegal actions of the police and the Prosecutor's Office of the Company of the Kirovograd Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:46]] For 122 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office in the administration of the Anakyi Metalworks. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:14]] For 131 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the assassination of the head of the Independent Mining Trade Union of Ukraine of the Krasnolymanska Mine, an assistant consultant to the Ukrainian People's Deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:44]] For-174 For - 174, the decision is made. Vladimir Mystrishkin to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the grounds of delaying the investigation of traffic accidents in the Winnitz region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:12]] For-80 For 80, no decision is taken. Vladimir Anishuk to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine for violating the Ukrainian State Tax Administration's constitutional right to freedom of worship. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:41]] For 118 For 118, the decision is made. Valentina Seminouk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the completeness of the information provided by the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the implementation by the authorities of the State Executive Service of state-owned enterprises and households. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:12]] For-127 For - 127, the decision is made. Victor Petrov to the minister of justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the State Executive Service of the Office of Justice of the City of Winnici to make more than 100 court decisions to make a salary in favour of the employees of the cellar factory. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:45]] For 135 For - 135, the decision is made. Mikola Sherschun to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine to pay off the debt owed to providing public social assistance to families with children. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:11]] For 113 for 113. Decision taken. Paul Sulkovski to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the repayment of debt from State social assistance in a number of regions of the Plain region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:38]] For 134 For 134. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence on the basis of the decisions of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the liquidation of the first army aviation brigade located in the city of Berdichev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:10]] For 134 For 134. Decision taken. Boris Rajkov, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, on the situation surrounding the privatisation of the rental and commercial firm Cherkasi Oil Product. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:38]] For-89 Z-89. The decision is not taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the head of the High Council of Justice on the violation by the judge of the local coastal court of Odessa of a court case banning the exercise of the right of citizens to rally and demonstrate. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:12]] For-166 For 166. Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the High Council of Justice in connection with the dissatisfaction of the response to the appeal regarding the violation of the oath by Judge Babuskinsky of the District Court of Dnipropetrovska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:42]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Dobkina, Karatumanova, Holy See to the Supreme Council of Justice, Council of Judges of Ukraine on the facts of the exceedance of official powers, violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, the judiciary's ethics as a substitute for the Supreme Council of Justice of the Judge in his resignation, Volodymyr Butenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:20]] For-179 Decision taken. Anatolia nutvajka to the head of the Donetsk District State Administration for the payment of salary arrears to the employees of the Anakyi factory "Buddetal". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:49]] For-143 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Affairs on monitoring compliance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Film Act in the film screening part of the rolling licence. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:24]] For-149 Decision taken. Zary Katusheva to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the possibility of receiving a copy of the decision of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:50]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of legislation in the Cherkasilis State Forestry Association system. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:17]] For-126 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin is to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the elimination of violations of the law on the status of the Ukrainian national deputy on the incompatibility of the parliamentary mandate with other activities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:53]] For-188. Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik is the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine to pay off social debt to low-income families with children in the Ivano-Frankow region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:22]] For 158. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin is with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal removal of orders from the Cabinet of Land Ministers of the Recreational House of Desert Water. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:52]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the Ukrainian Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine by the editors-in-chief of the Odessa News and the Odessa Gazette. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:24]] For-152. For -152, the decision is made. John Mihowich to the head of the State Committee on Nationality and Migration for Support of the Hungarian-speaking newspaper." . [[town of Uzhgrad]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:52]] For 135 For - 135, the decision is made. The National Deputy Veretennikov to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the decision of the operational meeting in the Dnipropetrovsky District Prosecutor's Office regarding the joint-stock company "Kobinat Pridniprovski". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:41:26]] For-98 For - 98, the decision is made. People's deputies -- Stormyka and Novika -- about the rise in tariffs for heat services, I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:41:53]] For 132 For - 132, the decision is made. With questions. The query has been processed. The reply was a request to give a word to the national deputy Katishev. Turn on the microphone and highlight the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this parliamentary request and to uphold the interests of our Crimean journalist with international views.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we haven't voted on five questions. If there's no objection, get together, get together, I'll put it to the vote again. Please, Valentin Grigorovich Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u6	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! As head of the Rules Committee, I have been approached repeatedly, including right now, by national deputies on the basis that there are often outsiders in the session room, who are not members of the national parliament. And just now, there were some people walking around the hall who are not members of the people. So I ask you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, to give the appropriate services of the Supreme Council's Office to ensure that such people do not appear in the Supreme Council Hall, even if they do have the status of councillors of the President, the Prime Minister and other high-level certificates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I ask and entrust the secretariat, except for the national deputies and the staff of the Apparatus, who are allowed into the session room so that no one else enters the session room. Dear colleagues, have you got the offer? Again, those questions that have not been supported should be revoted. I would like to put to the vote a request from the national deputy of Zarya Katusheva to the President of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of journalist Rashid Meshishev. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Oh, I beg your pardon. Cancel the vote. We got the support, not the final result. I am putting to the vote the request of the national deputy of Zarya Katusheva to the President of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of journalist Rashid Meshishev. About sending him to the President of Ukraine. [[10:45:03]] For 207 The decision is not taken. Group of Ukrainian National Deputies - Karpov, Zarubinski, Shevchuk, Tolstouchov to the President of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to strengthen the monitoring of Ukraine's decisions taken by the President. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:45:34]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Yeah, one minute. I'll see about that. Now, one minute. Request of National Deputy Vladimir Masterskin to the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for delaying the investigation of road traffic accidents in the Winnitsky region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:46:22]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Boris Rajkov, head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the privatisation of the rental and commercial company Chercasinaftofproduct. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:46:49]] For 105 Decision taken. Yeah, that's it. Let us move on to the speeches of the national deputies with statements, information, queries. 30 minutes. Please indicate on board the list of national deputies who have expressed a desire to speak. Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u9	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u10	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Nikolayenko, 187 constituency, Hersonian. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine regularly examines the state of law enforcement. We are looking at how the Constitution of Ukraine is being implemented today and we want to draw the attention of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, the District Administrations, and the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the acute problem and baking that has taken place today in our country, particularly in the South and the Centre of Ukraine, and in the West, by the way, in the provision of drinking water to the population of our country. Today, after criminal reforms had destroyed collective agriculture, all the networks that provided drinking water were transferred to the rural councils. And what's interesting is that people pay for water today, for electricity in the private sector, in the rural area -- 14 copies, in the city of 15,6, but when they pay for water, there's a tariff for electricity, practically twice as much. And what is happening today? Rural councils can't, let's say, do overpayments for electricity, they pay in fact, but it does happen that in rural councils, in village councils, in city councils often, for a period of time, there's no money to pay for electricity, for water. And then, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, there are fines that are five times higher than actual non-payments. And what do we have? In the budget, fines are unforeseeable, rural, rural, urban council cannot, all wells are shut down, and today it is a rule that there is no drinking water in villages and cities throughout Ukraine. The Law on Drinking Water prohibits such matters. The Energy Act says that it pays for the actual consumption of electricity, but the government today virtually destroys our people by this decree and makes it impossible for them to live, especially in the steppe part of our Ukraine. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine invites the government to consider this situation immediately with the provision of drinking water to the population of Ukraine, to abolish fines for the use of electricity if this electricity is used to provide people with drinking water. I pay attention and ask the committees on environmental issues, health care also to address these problems, or today we will have tragic consequences when people suffer from waterlessness.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u11	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Prepare Ivan Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u12	Please give the floor to the national deputy Levk Grigorovich Lukyanenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u13	Leukyanko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u14	Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, citizens of Ukraine! I want to give you some very interesting information. You and I thought that Ukraine was going from a socialist system to a private-owned economy and from dictatorship to democracy, it was so difficult because it was in itself a very difficult process. It turns out that this whole process, led by the Ukrainian State, is led by people who are guided, not by the Ukrainian national idea, but by the principles of Freemasonry. I want to call you a couple of people from this number. All in all, "Evening News" is going to print a big article tomorrow, and I'm asking you to find this newspaper, and you're going to read very detailed information right now I want to call you a few people. So Freemasonry is the head of the Kravchuk Tax Administration, Vice Prime Minister. Kravchenko, I beg your pardon, Deputy Prime Minister Azarov, former President of Ukraine Leonid Krawczuk, Mrs. Ludmila Kuchma, former Minister of Defence Mr. Kuzmuk, current Minister of Defence Škidchenko, head of Security Service Radchenko, Attorney General of Ukraine, and many others. Judge Vasilenko’s case against a citizen of Kuchma is now under review in the case of Kiwalov, the head of the Justice Council, who belongs to the Masonic organizations. A member of this board of the Eudhokimov is called the Chevalier. So, the citizens of Ukraine, if Ukraine are governed not by the patriots of Ukraine who are governed by the Ukrainian national idea, but by people who are governed by different statutes and who have subordinations, not by the will of the Ukrainian nation or the Supreme Council, but by someone else, it is clear that Ukraine will collapse, not be built. You remember that there was a time in Italy when a huge scandal broke out, the Italian public learned that there was a so-called P-2 bed in the Italian Parliament. It was a huge scandal. And that whole bed was released, immediately expelled from Parliament in order for Parliament to be the embodiment of the will of the people and to realize its will. So we also have this problem. And I'm now officially stating, a question to the Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Volodymyr Litvin, please inform Mr. Head of the composition of the members of the Supreme Council of which of the members of the Supreme Council are members of the Masonic Organizations. And you know, Masonic organizations, well, Mason is a builder, a stoner, but they don't say anywhere that they're building the congregation of Solomon, not the Ukrainian state. Please accept my oral entry as a request and inform the MPs who belong to the Masonic organizations? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u15	Mihovich Ivan Ivanovich, a faction of Communists. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Comrade Kruczyk's friend Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u17	Georgi Korniyovich Kruchkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! I'm a person who has lived three quarters of a age, and I've seen all kinds of things today that even in a country like Ukraine, where citizens' rights and freedoms are brutally violated, I would never believe if I didn't get to know the document that was sent on 22 November last year in the field of internal affairs. It's called a separate commission in the order of article 118 of the Ukrainian KPC to question as witnesses of the witnesses of the famous September campaign of the Rise of Ukraine. It turns out that the case against organizers and shareholders has been violated under part three of article 279, "The blockade of transport communications that has led to the death of people or other serious consequences with a penalty of between 5 and 12 years." Among other things, it is the responsibility of the witnesses to ask them: the source and the size of the profits, the composition of the family in which the party is located, how it came to take part in the protest, whether personally or by someone else's advice, how it came to Kiev, how much it paid, how much it cost, how it came to know the location of the congregation, whose parties and formations were gathered there, whether it was the reward, who, or who, perhaps, who came to Kiev with him, what their involvement was, who organized and headed the column, whether he knew the national deputies of the Ukraine and the leader of the Brodsky Apple, whether he had seen them on September 16th, under which circumstances, including in the columns, the rally, and so on. It is also appropriate to check the links and involvement of witnesses in the commission of offences and crimes, to inquire of their relatives and neighbors, and then to send clear copies of form 3 to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as far as possible, of the colour photographs. Special emphasis is placed on the need to "shall carry out a separate task in strict terms, because the criminal case is on the personal control of the minister and in the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. I have my own vision of this action, and I do not hide it, but I do not find words to express deep resentment at the fact that high officials, whose direct duty is to protect the basic law of the State, constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, are essentially blessing and control the violent violations of at least 6 articles of the Constitution: 32, 33, 34, 36, 39, I no longer speak of article 80, where there are parliamentary guarantees. The situation is unprecedented and needs, in my opinion. an immediate, sharp and principled response. I'm making an offer. 1. Consider this statement as a parliamentary request to the guarantor and to comply with the Constitution with a request to respond accordingly. 2. Ask the Minister of the Interior and the Attorney General to provide an explanation on the merits of the matter. 3. Instruct a committee of deputies headed by a colleague of Sinchenko and a committee of profile to investigate and report. And four. To recommend that the President arrange for a cure with the highest officials as to how respect and compliance with the Constitution should be respected. I just don't know who to start with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u19	Vernon Leonid Mikhailovich. The Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u20	Vernigora, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please pass the word to the first Secretary of the Socialist Party Joseph of Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u21	Dear national deputies in the area that have not yet become Freemasons! I have a letter from the representatives of the City Council of the Sudan who were asked to announce the session. Dear National Deputies! You're being approached by a group of MPs from the City Council of Suma for gross violations of the status of the City Council as an organ of local self-government. On January 22, 2003, at the 5th introductory session of the Sumi City Council of 24th vocation, Andronov's city head was appointed as the city's head. In accordance with article 46 of the Ukrainian Law "On Local Self-Government in Ukraine" in the case of the annual composition of the city's head of authority, the authority of the city's head over the city council, including the authority to convene the session, the signing of the decisions and protocols of the session, is to be carried out by the secretary of the Somali City Council, which is in accordance with the stated law and the Ukrainian Law "On Service in Local Self-Government" by a local self-government official who works on a permanent basis in the city council throughout the term of the council's mandate. On 24 January 2003, at that session, a majority of the votes of the deputies present did not hear the report of the Secretary of the City Council without a prior discussion in the permanent parliamentary commissions directly at the session without any legal basis being provided for the appointment of the Secretary of the City Council of Sumya, Deputy Sergio Kloczka, who was legitimately elected to the post at the invitation of the City Head on 5 April 2002 on the date of the commencement of the terms of office of the Somali City Council of the 24th Assembly. The chairman of the session, Sergey Klochko, closed the session and did not sign the decision. Thus, it did not take effect. However, a group of deputies, representing the majority of the Suman City Council at a meeting that took place outside the regulations and the Law of Ukraine on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and is not a session, chose their alternate secretary of the Suman City Council. In addition to the fact that the decision to release Klochk from office of secretary did not take effect, Klochko is, in fact, legally and legally a legitimate secretary of the City Council of Suma. The vast majority of deputies, having decided to elect a secretary for another MP, violated the requirements of part one of the first article of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, according to which the secretary of the City Council is elected for the proposal of a city head. This proposal, given the previous resignation of the city’s head, was not made by the deputies. So today, in the Suman City Council, there is actually a usurped position of secretary, illegally elected by a meeting of MPs, who have been illegally transferred beyond the authority of the Secretary of the Council and the authority to sign the financial and economic documents. In the same way, they acted on the execution. We have in the sums of the city power today, which is absolutely illegal. All decisions of this city authority today are outside the law. In other words, the city of Suma is effectively undergoing a coup and illegal occupation of power. I would like to bring the responsibility of the Ukrainian national deputies to this situation. It's really bothering me, because if it goes any further, then actually, the local self-governance of de facto will be eliminated. I'd like to draw your attention from Mr. Lithuania's Chief of Staff to this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u22	National MP Simonov, get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u23	Simonov, faction of the Company of Ukraine. Please give the word to my comrade in the faction of Vladimir Leschchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u24	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u25	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! On January 14-16, the 22nd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia took place in Moscow. As an observer, the official delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine participated in its work as a representative of the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. I was grateful to the participants in the session for my welcome to the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s President, Lithuania, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As you know, the High Council of State of the Union of Belarus and Russia is headed by the President of the Republic of Belarus, Alexander Grigorovich Lukashenko, and the Parliamentary Assembly is headed by the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, Gennady Mikolajovich Seleznov. So Gennady Mikolaiovich asked me to convey the most sincere greetings and wishes of success to Vladimir Mikhajlovich himself, members of the Parliamentary Union of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to our voters. The session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia addressed a number of important issues of the vitality of this union formation, including the 2003 budget of $70 million. Part of Belarus in filling the income part is a third, the rest is the Russian Federation. The cost of the budget is directed towards the provision of state-wide programmes, which are now being implemented in 36 countries, including defence, state security, border protection, and so on. There's economics. It should be noted that we have not seen any hegemonic activity on the part of the Russians in relation to the Belarusians. All the questions in the sessions were resolved through active discussion and open voting. By the way, the representation of the two nations in Parliamentary Assembly is equal to that of the Union. In our view, especially to the rightful political forces, the people of Ukraine have no reason to guard against the Russian bear and the Belarusian bison. The greater danger, in my opinion, is now Western foxes and wolves. The session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia also addressed the status of the parliamentary union of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia. I am pleased to announce that we are still an observer with this allied body. I am deeply convinced that the happy future of our people is only possible in the union of three fraternal independent states. No West can help us to cope with our present challenges. So let us work hard to strengthen political, economic, and cultural ties with Belarus and Russia as part of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u26	The national MP Borszewski gives the word to his colleague Puzakov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u27	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, when they meet with the voters of the New Ukraine region, how would I like to know, not as a national deputy, but as an average citizen, when the authorities, the district and district authorities, the militia and the prosecutor's office will end up in the hands of the common people? When you talk to people, you conclude that only in the Kirovograd region, which is extremely devastated, stolen, have the people impoverished. This is how corruption, which is managed by our district administration, thrives. Take, for example, the New Ukraine region where banditry, theft, murder, and almost none of them are exposed. People have repeatedly called on law enforcement authorities for protection, but the response is zero. The biggest damage to energy supplies is in the New Ukraine region. In 2001 alone, they amounted to 500,000 dollars, and in 2002, they accounted for one and a half times as much. And the robbery attack on the level of KSP, the killing of the employee of the specified enterprise, the burning of the doors of the Ukrainian Company's local headquarters -- all of this was done in the Ukrainian region, and between the small periods of time. And the abuse of the Communist leader of Ogil Vladimir Ivanovich's "Level" KSP, which has proved to be an intelligent and skilled leader in this district and district authorities. And such illegal acts, the widespread violation of human constitutional rights, the humiliation of human honour and dignity daily and at every turn are observed in the New Ukraine region, and there is no protection for the laborer. Arbitrary in order in the area should be the reincarnation led by Volodymyr Balan, but he's silent because he knows that he's got a gun, people will tell him about his own gas stations and his own pharmacies. We don't know how much money they're getting. Balan decides everything for his own benefit, so that, by the decision of the general general general meetings, the CSO "Levels" issues certificates and acts to the land of agriculture at the expense of budgetary resources, without agreeing with agriculture, he distributes to commercial structures better land and ponds. The district’s public sphere is completely stolen, and there is nothing to do to clear the city’s roads. Although the district administration appreciates such balanas. Thus, in December, he received a high - rate letter from the district administration. This must be where both the robberies and the murders and the thefts come in. As early as September, an organization from the New Ukraine region was standing under the windows of the principal law enforcement office in Kiev with banners, "Get the circuits! I'll end up overthrowing the district authorities!" And today, the electorates of this region also unanimously demand that we put an immediate end to the abolition of the authorities, and we want to live without fear. My statement is to be listed as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of the Ukraine of Piscona. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u28	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u29	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Valley Electoral District 89. Please give the word to a colleague of the Mikola Tomenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u30	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to one of the almost eternal problems that exist in Ukraine. You know, this eternal problem has been addressed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which, by an absolute majority of votes, had to recommend to us, well, we, more specifically, to the President and the Executive, to do something so that the President's Administration doesn't control the information space and send instructions on how to explain things. And I was, to be honest, convinced that the situation would improve. But I was handed over to the directors of the TV company a series of these documents. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in this case, not only the opposition factions but also the Supreme Council of Ukraine are on the blacklist. It's a "dark" from January 17th. “On 17 January, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the requests of a number of people's deputies on various issues. Television comments: none. On 17 January, Lithuania and a number of people's deputies commented on the outcome of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Comments: None. Adequate comments on the outcome of the session may be provided by Zinchenko, Hubsky, Volkov, Sharov, Onichuk, Cemetery. On 17 January, Litwin commented on the prospects for Ukraine's future presidential campaign. Comment: None. On 17 January, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the request of the People's Deputy Kručkov for the circumstances of the sale of military property by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the commercial structures of the Open Shareholder Society of the Leninska Kuznja plant. [[An Explanation for Journalists]] It is known that this factory is part of the “Ukrprominvest” concert, whose honorary president is a member of the “Our Ukraine” Poshenko faction. Comment: The topic is important and relevant.” At each event, what journalists need to say and what they do not need is rewritten. And I think the Attorney General here has promised us at parliamentary hearings that he will start a criminal case in which the President's Administration is violating professional activity. And I'm telling the Attorney General once again that he didn't just promise, and he did. And I gave you these documents. Another vital aspect is that you know that on March 9, opposition protests are being prepared. And luckily, the courts have made decisions that allow these actions to be conducted and not blocked. But the Office of Internal Policy of the President's Administration is actively preparing for these actions. This is a document that is now being sent to all district governments and city councils, where they are entrusted with the responsibility to gather such information and transmit it to the President’s Office. I know how the first wards worked. So this reminds me of the first wards. So, to provide information: a plan of opposition forces in the near future, with official and informal information, business objects, institutions that may potentially be supported by a margin of opposition, to describe the processes that are taking place today in the environment of opposition, change of priorities, internal struggle, etc., etc. These documents came to the district government. And the district administrations are reporting to the President's Administration. Once again, I would like to draw the attention of Parliament and the President of Ukraine to the fact that the President's Administration, although 619 people work there, you know what the Central Committee of the Party once had, in fact, to help the President, not to act by illegal illegal methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u32	National MP Rajkov, Democratic Initiatives MP, prepare Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u33	Please give the floor to Ambassador Bandurke Alexander Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u34	Alexander Markovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u35	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. On November 29, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a decree on the report of the leaders of the power structures on the organization of the fight against organized crime by 229 votes, and on the second reading, a decree was adopted by 228 votes in favour of the deputies Gavrish, Burjak, Yudkoim, Bandurka. And the newspaper Voice of Ukraine published another decision that had not even been considered because the first decision had been adopted. I ask the leaders of the Supreme Council to conduct a service investigation and an appropriate response and to remove the error if it was a mistake, not an intentional step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u36	Sergey Slubenko is non-fractional, please. Get ready. It's not gonna work out. There's not enough time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to these circumstances, you remember that when we started our parliamentary activities, especially those working in major districts, they faced a failure to comply with the Cabinet of Ministers decree of 551 parts of the capital expenditure. I'm probably not going to open America today, but from the answers I got from the Cabinet of Ministers, I learned that the cost of capital construction was slightly more than 50 percent funded. There wasn't enough money for everything else. So, for example, for Volin County, I checked in my constituency, I didn't have any copies of any of the projects that were funded, such as the construction of a hospital in the village of Ivanichi and in the city of Lubomir, there was no construction of the 10th mine, which is actually the construction of the 10th mine today in critical condition, and the money is not coming to this construction. There is an unpaid salary of more than three months. I realize that every national MP is in pain over how things will continue in his constituency. And for the most part, you have made your proposals especially for those working in major districts to be included in capital - building projects that need construction. Accordingly, all these proposals were carefully processed by the Budget Committee and sent to the Cabinet of Ministers. Yes, at least I know that such proposals came not only from seniors, but also from MPs, from such factions of "Our Ukraine", from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, from the Agrarian Party and faction respectively, they all reached the Ministry of Economics. As the Ministry of Economics has done in these cases. It called out the government officials, and they actually redistributed the money. So, for example, I already know that building an Ivanic hospital today is not a priority in the sense of Volin County Administration. Today, gasifications, other objects, have come off the list. I would like to draw your attention to the violation of article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which foresees that national MPs have the right to legislative initiative, and the corresponding part of article 52 of the State Budget Act 2003 should be made available for distribution of this money. I believe that government administrations are thus destroying the parliamentary initiatives and believe that they are the ones who are entitled to the priority distribution of money. Please note that the budgetary committee, the Supreme Council, cannot approve such proposals without agreeing with all the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! The time allocated for statements, information, messages, queries is exhausted. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, a corresponding commission from the Supreme Council will be prepared and sent. I would like to inform you about the statement made by Alexander Markovich Bandurk. Indeed, the honourable colleagues, there it was discovered that they had replaced the draft decree and that everyone called for it to be signed. We are now conducting a service investigation in the apparatus and finding out. If that's what this is all about. Why did this happen? If the people's deputies are involved, we'll pass the material on to the Regulatory Committee. It's an outrage. We continue to work according to the schedule of our meetings. I'm announcing a draft mortgage law. This is document number 2555. Reporter to the Committee on Finance and Banking Dmitri Volodymyrovich, please. I'd like to make a brief request.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u39	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! For the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Law on the Mortgage Act has been introduced, the importance of which is difficult to overestimate from the perspective of both the Ukrainian economy as a whole and the Ukrainian banking system as a whole. This bill is part of a package of draft legislative acts aimed at establishing a civilised system for the functioning of mortgages in Ukraine, crediting and strengthening legal guarantees for the protection of creditors' rights while respecting the legitimate rights of the borrower. At the moment, there is a systemless regulation of mortgage relations in Ukraine based on cut-off legislative and regulatory acts in the area of bail, enforcement, notarial action. Section 2 of Ukraine's Act on Hostages, Ukraine Act on Implementing the Ukrainian Act on Notariat. These documents relate to individual aspects of the real estate mortgage, but the entire legal system of mortgage regulation and Ukraine does not exist at this time. The main disadvantages of the existing legal regulation of the mortgage should be those, first of all. In fact, current legislation applies to the mortgage of real estate the same legal regime as to the mortgage of immovable property, regardless of the principle of the difference between them. It should be taken into account that property rights for immovable property, unlike most types of movable property, are subject to state registration. In this connection, the operation of the mortgage, in particular its state registration, should be in line with the real estate registration system. Current legislation leaves the issue entirely unresolved. At the moment, legislation does not determine the rules for determining the priority of the mortgageholder's right to apply to mortgaged immovable property in relation to the rights of other creditors who have a legal requirement for the debtor's property arising before or after the mortgage contract has been concluded. Land mortgage issues are not regulated by valid legislation, both in terms of the application of restrictions on the mortgage on the alienation and targeted use of land provided for in the Ukrainian Code of Land and in the harmonization of the legal regime of the land area with the transfer to the mortgage of property in the country. The current procedure for applying for leased immovable property is extremely ineffective, procedural legislation provides the basis for indefinitely delaying the procedure for meeting creditors' claims for mortgages within the framework of judicial and executive conduct, resulting in serious damage to creditors as a result of the removal from their circulation of significant credit resources, which undoubtedly results in the outflow of credit resources, especially in agrarian and building complexes. The current legislation does not provide for mortgage lending of liquid financial instruments that would allow the creditor to refinance its activities from mortgage lending on the secondary market of financial resources. The strategic objective of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's introduction of the draft Law on Mortgage is to introduce modern and effective legal regulation of the mortgage from the time it is formed to the full satisfaction of the mortgage lender's requirements under the main liability. The need for this is due to the imperfections of the existing legal base, its irresponsibility with progressive international standards, Ukraine's lack of transparent rules and adequate financial instruments that would allow fast and efficient introduction of immovable property, including land, for substantial increases in lending volumes and periods, a reduction in the cost of credit resources and an increase in overall economic growth on this basis. Special emphasis should be placed on the fact that the bill is in no way designed to stimulate the alienation of immovable property, including land, from the property of citizens and legal persons. In contrast, quality mortgage legislation will stimulate the addition of funds by these entities to the most favourable conditions to meet their consumer and manufacturing needs, including the acquisition of new property. A civil creditor institution that is gradually established in Ukraine is primarily interested in properly carrying out its lending obligations. The estrangement of a mortgage on immovable property can only be regarded as the last means of ordering the creditor to force the borrower to repay the loan, but in no way as an end in itself. Ukraine's draft mortgage law has been prepared to develop the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land and recently adopted by the Supreme Council of the Civil Code. In particular, article 133 of the Code of Land and article 577 of the Civil Code state that mortgages should be regulated by a special law. In the drafting of the bill, the model of legal regulation of mortgages in the United States and the EU countries was also taken into account in the introduction of new mortgage legislation in the SND countries, particularly in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan. In the light of the best international experience, an optimum model for the functioning of the mortgage has been established for Ukraine’s economic and legal realities. Honourable National MPs, the bill reconciles the issue of mortgages on agricultural land with the requirement of Ukraine’s Land Code. In particular, article 13 of the bill provides that all restrictions imposed by the Ukrainian Land Code on the alienation and purpose of land use of agricultural destinations are valid when transferred to a mortgage. This ensures that the legal rights of landowners of agricultural destinations are respected in the mortgage lending process. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has reached a positive conclusion on the Ukrainian Mortgage Act. In his view, the first reading of the Ukrainian Mortgage Act could be based on observations and suggestions. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance and Banking. The committee supports the adoption of Ukraine's Law on Mortgage in the first reading. Since the legislative settlement of mortgage relations is one of the most urgent tasks in the development of the financial sector in Ukraine, I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the draft Ukrainian Law on Mortgage and its adoption in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, is there a question? Please sign up. How much do we need to ask? Like always, five minutes, right? Seven? All right, seven. Light up on the board, please. Stanislaw Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u41	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party, Hersonian. Please tell us, Your Honor Dmitri Volodymyrovich, you've explained quite so emphatically that the land issues will be regulated, the stagnation of the earth, you'll take into account the world's experience. And do we take into account the experience of our countryman when we give people the land today, the time is coming to pay for the land, they don't know where to go, and they're actually willing to give it to anyone or rent it, or sell it because there's no power to hold it? And here we're going to sing with the mortgage law. And so the mass landing of peasants in Ukraine means that there are no children anywhere. And we're going to have what our classics described in the early 20th century, 1905-1917. Once again, I want to tell you, the land in Ukraine is the most valuable treasure, can we treat it so thoughtlessly today? What kind of mechanisms do you propose that there be no resistance and mass alienation of peasants through this mortgage mechanism?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u42	Thank you very much. You know, it's this law that proposes a financing mechanism for agricultural enterprises, because it's the peasants today who have nothing to put on bail, and there is, you're right, it's the land. But the earth’s assessment of the earth is being carried out under the earth’s Codex, that is, there will be no depreciating of these lands. And if a peasant is unable to issue these funds, the purpose of the land will not change, but the land will be auctioned for free trade. I mean, this is the law that opposes the destruction of peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u43	George Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Masenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u45	National MP Masenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u46	Thank you. Dmitri Volodymyrovich, well, this was the answer to Nikolaynko's question, and that's how it works! Do you know the situation in the country? If a farmer puts the land on hold now, with today’s price mechanism and the price ratio of agricultural products and other agricultural products used by peasants, he will never be able to account for the bank’s credit. And it's clear to everyone who's sitting here and who's sitting outside this hall, what this is all about is that they're doing it to take away from people the land they'd give them, and then you're still bullying, and you're saying, "Once upon a time, the Bolsheviks gave up the land and took it away!" And you're doing the same thing right now to give -- and take the land in this way, by mortgage, and by mortgage. Well, what are you doing? Let's go back to the real life in the country, see how people live in the country, can they account for the credit they had in the banks? You're going to analyze this year - 2002 - you don't have to go too far. The company received a loan, and 50 percent were not calculated on it. What do you want to do? There is no earth. Where are you pushing the peasants?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u47	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, but it was not the peasants who counted the price of agricultural production that did not match their market value today. But this is not a question of mortgage, because it is through the mortgage mechanism that we can raise funds that peasants do not receive today. Now, peasants can't have the money they need, they're partially betting on what they have, and they're partly taking the same fuel, fertilizer, they're taking at prices much higher than they would buy for money. And they're going to take the money if a mortgage mechanism is put in place. You and I have common goals here!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u48	Yes, please, Rephat Chubarov. I'm asking you to meet me and have a discussion with both of you. Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u49	Dear Dmitre Volodymyrovich, I also want to ask you this. Why should borrowing mortgages be a priority in comparison with other debtors ’ liabilities? Can other commitments in some cases be less socially meaningful or, perhaps, painful to humans? And the second question. Maybe at this point in time, so that we can rule out the possibility of stopping the land, so that the mortgage law can pass in this room at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u50	Thank you very much. That's a good question. If you say, you can't eliminate the problem, the question of the land freeze, because the mortgage is the whole complex: the buildings and the land they're standing on. Because what we have today is that banks are taking over a building or a building, and the land on which they are located is not settled. So there are endless judicial hearings in this matter. Thus, the issue of the earth is related to construction and siege. It's reality, it's the point of a mortgage. Speaking of mortgage liabilities, it's a top priority, well, it's a world experience, and we've had multiple round tables with the World Bank, with colleagues from other countries. If this is not resolved, this law makes no sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u51	Olga Hinzburg, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u52	Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Your Honor, I have a very simple question. The Earth Committee, my colleague Leschenko came to me and said that the Earth Committee had not considered this issue, had not considered it, had not passed it through this committee. That's the first one. I don't understand. It's different. The mortgage today, this law that we are considering, tells us almost everything about the earth. It's probably not called land, and we're talking about real estate, we're talking about other things. But the whole estate is gone. We now know that in Ukraine it is almost gone; it is already someone’s, then we can bet. When I work in my district, all the time, I drive through the villages, they say to the villagers, "Take state acts to the ground, take state acts to the ground, pay 40 dollars and 20 more for something, and take these state acts." Then, for what -- I ask. Why is it so urgent for them to take these State acts? Then I'll analyze myself. The World Bank for Reconstruction and Development provides large loans. What bank in Ukraine? You could call it, you know, which bank. And this bank is going to be doing the mortgage today. One goal today, you have to say, is land. And do we have the right today to do this in a contract with the World Bank that wants to collect an estimated 1995 acre of land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u53	First of all, the main purpose of adopting this law is to create a transfer mechanism and simplify the process of transferring the property complex into collateral. Because if this mechanism is not implemented today, we will have no further reason to develop our economy. Because around the world, about 85 percent of the mortgage goes through mortgages. It's different. There's an institution like a mortgage. The replacement is the introduction of new securities. And the earth is not a target. Earth is one of the types of pledges under this law, but it goes by the mechanism that is proposed. There is no purpose, no purpose to take away the earth. The goal is for banks to be able to lend loans on a mortgage basis. They have a license to do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u54	Thank you. Time's up. Please have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes to discuss, yes, if there is no objection. I'd like to explain who we're signing up for. Yuri Carmazin, please. Get ready for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! The law that we are discussing is late for adoption, at least for half a hundred years. I'll tell you, don't be surprised. In Spain the mortgage or mortgage was regulated by the Civil Code back in 1889, in Italy -- in 1942 -- and in 1942, the definition is completely different, I'm not talking about Germany, I'm not talking about other civilized countries that are already living in socialism, which we've been building for a very long time. I would now like to stop at the shortcomings of that law, certainly thank the authors for what they did, but of course they couldn't do anything, and couldn't do the whole committee, even though he made an effort, because this law was going through the Committee on Legal Policy. Moreover, the Committee on Legal Policy was to be a fundamental committee to consider this law. I want to go back to the mortgage definition. The definition provided for in this draft law is totally legally incorrect, which is what we have to get out of. If we write down the definition that this is the type of civil liability insurance that remains in the ownership of the mortgager, by virtue of which the mortgager is entitled in the event of default by the mortgage-provided mortgage-payer to meet the requirements of the mortgage-paying asset to the other creditors of the debtor, if the other is not established by law, we will approach what is required. If we rule out this law and put it in order, and in article 4, we add it as it is in the new Civil Code in article 578, that mortgages cannot be subject to national, cultural, historical values that are subjects of state property rights and are or are subject to the National Register of National Cultural Heritage. If we reconcile all of this with the Earth Code, especially since the question here was that it was just a mortgage on the land. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This question is much broader than it has been interpreted here today in the audience by many speakers. Thus, the code provides for part 3 of article 133 that. 4, I'm sorry, only banks that meet the requirements set by Ukraine's laws can hold the land. These things, these inadequacies need to be corrected, and the law needs to be adopted urgently. Another question that I'm asking, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is that this law should be passed on after the first reading to the Committee on Legal Policy, because this is a legal policy -- mortgage and this is an indicator of the civilisation of the state. The absence of this law means that there is no civilization at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u56	Thank you. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u57	You have come to the Council of Europe without tie. So without the mortgage law today, we live.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u58	Thank you. You don't? Please, Boris Bespali. Gone? Mikhail Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters who listen! I want to make such a macroeconomic assessment of when that law should be adopted and how it should work. My colleague Karmazin from a legal point of view, so I'm not going to repeat myself, said that this law can't be passed because concepts and terms conflict with the Civil Code. That's the first one. The other one. As a moving object expert, I have known all my life that a plane, a rocket, a space object is a moving object, and in this law I have read that it is a real estate. That's right. What's more, Your Honor, when does the world work and need such a law? Such a law is one of the components of such a complex as market relations, established market relations! And we have a transition economy. This law works when there is parity of prices in agriculture when it is supported. For example, regarding agriculture, this law in the market economy works only in a tropical zone without State support, and we do not have a tropical belt. We have such conditions today that under this law everything that is in the state can quickly disappear as property. By the way, this is the trend in the world: taking down private property with financial oligarchs. Next. This law works in market relations when interest rates -- for Carmazin, I say, less than 10 percent. We have today, here are bankers, raise your hand with less than 30 percent interest rates. There isn't! So for today’s interest rates, there is no industry, no enterprise in principle, this world experience, can break apart. So what do we want to do? We go to the market, we create private property, we destroy everything in one year, and we destroy everything in agriculture a long time ago. You know what it is, it's self-inflicted. So what I'm proposing is, I'm introducing a criterion, I'm going to go back to this law, when we have state support for agriculture, when there's price parity, when the minimum wage is a thousand dollars, and when the interest rate is less than 10 percent, then this law is going to work. To that end, it's a law of self-disposal. Haven't we had enough mistakes in 10 years? You can't rip something out of the market and push it where it doesn't work. You have to be comprehensive, you have to have a state strategy, and there's no state strategy. So I thank Karmazin for making it easier for me that he is, in a legal sense, raw, such a law. It wasn't, it had to be rejected, and from an economic point of view, from a market point of view, it could be included on the basis of the criteria that I said. When that happens, we don't know. Today the law is suicide. So I thank you for your attention and ask you to reject it, because it is a very big danger to Ukraine and everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u60	Thank you. Mikola Onichtuk. Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u61	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! It is wrong today to believe that the discussion of the land’s siege, particularly as one of the objects of immovable property, begins only today in connection with the adoption of this law. The point is that both the Civil Code and the Land Codex of Ukraine allow and foresee the earth as an object of a bonded relationship. Another point is that if the law separates a special mechanism, it refines the procedure, regulates the procedure, if the land and objects of immovable property could become subject to collateral. Among his benefits and negatives, I would say this: With regard to the shortcomings of this law, perhaps it was worth starting with. First. Taking into account the situation that has just been discussed in the hall, especially the characteristics of agricultural price distortions. Obviously, this law should provide for a special procedure for the transfer of agricultural land to a mortgage, for it is well - known that the vast part of such land is in charge of the lease. And the question is, could the steward, the user of this land, that is, the enterprise where the peasants leased this land, without their consent, put this land on bail? I don't think so. He should gather congregations of landowners in which he received these pies and in these congregations to decide whether they would agree to hand over the land in exchange for the need, such as obtaining credit or involving other funds? If such a mechanism is prescribed in this law, then many of the warnings that have now been made in the hall can be removed. At the same time, we need to understand that much of the land is already private property of citizens, especially the land that is provided for the maintenance of the land. And if someone wants to build a new house, but they don't have the funds, they have to have the right, not limited to our will with you, to hand over their private house and land as collateral, to get credit, to build, and then to think about how to do it. Thus, the law can be adopted, but it should be taken into account. And last of all, given that time has run out. The law provides for the introduction of a government mortgage registering institute, i.e. mortgages. But the very institution of this state registration, you know, doesn't exist in society today. Therefore, it is obvious that the authors of the bill should either make a reference to the law or submit a bill of registration, or write these provisions directly in this law. Thank you for your attention. As far as the recommendations are concerned. I'd say that's the basis for this bill. In fact, commissioning a legal committee to join and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u62	Vladimir Cherniak, please. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, what are we building? If we are building communism, this law is by no means necessary. If we are building a market, this law is necessary. I don't mean to say he's perfect, I just want to say that without a mortgage, there's no such thing as a civil market. And if we want to increase the degree of civilisation of the market in Ukraine, without regulation, legislative regulation of mortgage relations, we can't do that. That's why we have to decide. I agree that we can criticize and need this bill, which needs to be systematically acted upon, to adopt the entire body of laws that Paulussky spoke about. But today it's a question of a mortgage that doesn't exist without, once again, a market relationship. The subject of the law is mortgage lending, that is, the possibility of obtaining a loan. It seemed today that Nikolainka had asked what to do with the land to the peasants. Yeah, of course, if they don't have money, they don't have fertilizer, they don't have plant protection, they don't have technology, so, of course, what they can do about the earth. Where can I get the money? All over the world through credit. Credit! Under market economy conditions, the entrepreneur is happy twice -- the first time he got the loan, the second time he sold the product. So there's a problem with how to get credit, and there's a price problem. And I'm in agreement with those who are in favour of resolving these issues, because if we just settle mortgage issues rather than price issues, then, of course, the landing of peasants is going to be, I agree. By the way, the Minister of Agriculture promised that the purchase prices for agricultural production would be increased. And that's the right way, because we have a huge gap between the purchase prices and the prices they buy this product in stores. I'm not one of the lawyers and apologists to de-terrestrialize peasants. I don't want that to happen either. But the possibility of opening a mortgage requires a settlement of the issue of mortgages, not just land, but real estate as a whole. So there is no mortgage-free lending. And that's why this law regulates the bail mechanism. And on this basis, it opens up the possibility of getting a loan through a mortgage. That's the whole point of this law. I think that, on the contrary, if there's no mortgage lending, there's going to be alienation, and if there is, but there's not going to be any other issues, then there's going to be de-equity, but there's not going to be any way to avoid the mortgage going to the market. Let us consider, not that this law should be cut down, but that it should be refined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u64	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u65	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro A very rhetorical question: What are we building? I'm going to tell you that unfortunately, over the last 12 years, no one has built anything in our country, only a building that's called destruction. The other one. This bill under consideration, the mortgage, it directly affects the interests of a very large, numbered constituency of our constituents, is a peasant. But the committee that brought this law into consideration today did not even ask why the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations did not consider or make any suggestions. And because so many observations, and these observations are still coming from both ministries and from the authorities, and from the peasants, and so on. And there are significant observations from the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I believe that this law was brought up early today. And the most important thing about the peasant. The Mortgage Act, the one that's been introduced, is going to be a tool, one of the tools to take the land into the peasants. There's a lot of these tools. They're from capitalist countries' arsenals, and they're being implemented quietly in our country. You know there have been parliamentary hearings with us. 7 will be a meeting on agriculture and other agro-industrial complexes with the President. But I'm telling you once again that our nation's policy is to take the land away from the peasants and hand it over to our locals and to our foreigners through our middlemen. So I think that this Law on Mortgage, which is one of the tools for taking land into peasants, needs to be rejected. We are all Ukrainian national deputies who represent our village in the majority, so we should listen to our electorate. No one asked the peasant. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. What, the procedure? I can see it, I can see it. Please, Yuri Carmazin. You signed up after you finished the recording. Well, please, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, from the rostrum, there was a misinterpretation of my mind. And I would now like to explain to all the national deputies and the people of Ukraine that for the time being, all the legal relations at the mortgage are regulated by the provisions of section 2 of the Law on a zastava, which is called the mortgage, the low legislative and other legal acts in the area of notarial action. I mean, scream, don't scream, and it's already there, it's just not right. Therefore, a good law must be passed. And to those who say it's like that, when you just have to take it when there's $1,000 and so on. Never without regulation, without the adoption of civilized rules of law, will there be normal wages. So far, the mortgage as it exists in the mortgage law of 1992 is short, and we're starting the mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u68	Thank you. Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u69	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. Dear colleagues! I wanted to give, literally, one argument, which, I think, would be appropriate, because there were not exactly any accents in the discussion. Position one. First. A mortgage or a mortgage is a totally voluntary thing, so no one will take the money away from anyone. And second of all. Credits are most needed by those not very wealthy owners of the new ones who are now in the countryside. Loans are certainly needed to build their farms. Credits just don't get trusted, and that's why the collateral mechanism is the way it allows people who are the most affected in the village to get back on their feet. Hence, it is the poor who need it, including in the countryside, not only in the countryside but also in the city. It is our duty, with whom I am convinced that we will be able to read the second reading, to regulate and protect it with normal legislative standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u70	Thank you. Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u71	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I asked to speak only for the reason that I could not speak out. The adoption of such a law would result in the taking of land to the peasants, Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished national deputies. Why? Because when the land through the mortgage mechanism is taken as a mortgage, it will go, not at the market price, but three times, four times as cheap as the mortgage for the financial costs. This is the first time. It's different. You know you gave pies 2 by 4 hectares. This cannot be the basis for farming. And it will also be stimulated to move the land to financial structures, not to those entrepreneurial people who are now in places and who have rented it, but to banks. We're going to deprive entrepreneurial people in the village of the right to rent land or own land -- that's the wrong idea. We need to remove the land from this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, we're finalizing the matter. As for the decision, we'll decide on the day of the vote. We've got five minutes to take a break here, if you don't mind, but we've been voting questions for a long time today, so let's work out, because we have a lot of bills. Sergey Ivanovich doesn't deny it, does he? Thank you. A draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the conduct of a mandatory independent valuation of property]] Reporters: Deputy Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Krotuk Vladimir Leonidovich. Please, Volodymyr Leonidovich, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u73	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, the need for a bill submitted by the National Bank is due to the fact that the individual positions of the current Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation Activities in Ukraine, in our view, have a negative impact on the activities of banks in Ukraine. In particular, Article 7 of this Act establishes that in cases of transfer of property to a mortgage, it is mandatory to carry out an independent assessment. Before the adoption of the specified law, the value of the property provided for the loan was agreed between the borrower and the creditor bank, and the written report on the valuation of the property was not complete, and the valuation itself cost practically nothing and was done by the bank's experts very quickly. To date, the issue of providing a national producer with cheap credit resources is one of the priorities for the development of the domestic economy. However, the stated rule of law on mandatory independent valuation of property in the case of mortgages results in an actual increase in the rate of interest on the loan. For example, if the borrower wants to get a loan of 5,000 dollars under a 15-year term of 6 months, and if he has to pay 200 dollars to an independent assessor, that would mean a real increase in the current interest rate of about 4 percent of the year and be 19 percent year-on-year instead of 15. In addition, the subject will have to spend much more time on obtaining credit. Particularly damaging is the rule of law that causes small and medium-sized business lending, which has only just begun in Ukraine and prevents the provision of the necessary financial resources to Ukrainian small and medium-sized enterprises, farmers. This rule of law also leads to an increase in loans granted to Ukrainian citizens for social needs. The law does not take into account that in certain cases the carrying out of an independent assessment of property when transferred to a mortgage is not at all appropriate. In particular, upon acceptance of property rights for deposits or deposit certificates. There is no reason for the creditor bank to define their value further. The National Bank proposes to amend the law on property assessment, property rights and professional valuation activities and Ukraine, which will require a mandatory independent assessment of the subject matter of the mortgage only of state and municipal forms of property. In the case of mortgages on private property, there will be enough mutual agreement between both parties -- the creditor and the borrower -- on the value of the collateral that will be stated in the mortgage agreement. The bill submitted by the National Bank was considered by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office and received a positive conclusion. The National Bank’s bill is also supported by the Supreme Council Committee on Finance and Banking, which recommends that it be adopted in the first reading. The position of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the need to make the proposed changes to article 7 of the law is supported by the Association of Ukrainian Banks and leading commercial banks, which believe that the rules of the current drafting of article 7 of the law can be considered to be the enforcement of the third party’s right to intervene in the activities of entities engaged in non-state activities in part of the mandatory assessment of the property that has been acquired, which is usually unacceptable. The laws of other countries also do not provide for a mandatory assessment of all the property that is mortgaged. Yes, the Russian Federation's Evaluation Act provides for a mandatory assessment of the property that has been set aside only in state and municipal forms of property. In Germany, for example, a mandatory valuation of the accumulated property is foreseen only for the property in the mortgage. Participants in the All-U.S. Small and Medium Business Development Council, held on July 15, 2002, also said that it was not appropriate to exempt transactions from the transfer of property on a microcredit basis from a mandatory assessment. In this regard, a bill was also introduced at the hands of the President of the Cabinet of Ministers. In parallel, several national laws have been introduced to address this issue. All of this indicates that the question of the mandatory conduct of an independent assessment of the property transferred to the mortgage is extremely important and requires an appropriate legislative settlement. Taking into account what has been said, please consider the draft law introduced by the National Bank of Ukraine and adopt it in the first reading. Further comments and suggestions by subjects of the legislative initiative to finalize the bill may be considered when preparing it for second reading, along with other bills that have come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u74	Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up. The school of Andrew. Next Pisarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u75	The honourable reporter is, of course, interested in the desire of the National Bank to initiate the Property and Property Rights and Occupational Activity Assessment Act, but I, you know, here again and again want to ask a question. Well, please explain the benefits of this bill. Because I wanted you as an initiator to justify the convenience of how simple a person gets dividends from this bill. [[Here stands your mark that you are the authors of the bill and the initiators]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u76	First of all, this law is beneficial to borrowers, because the terms of getting the loan are declining -- this is once. Second, the credit rate is declining. This does not violate the right of the borrower. Because if the question of the implementation of the subject of the bet is resolved, please, at the initiative of the same owner of the bet may be assigned, so to speak, an expert who will assess the property. So this bill will be only for the benefit of the borrowers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u77	Peter Pisarczuk, next Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u78	Please pass the word to your colleague Sukhoma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u79	Drymu microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u80	Thank you. Vladimir Leonidovich, there is no doubt about the need for legislative improvements in the legal principles of the assessment of property, property rights and professional evaluation activities of Ukraine -- that is, indeed, in the case of the adoption of the law, as you say, and after its development, small and medium-sized business receives substantial support during the acquisition of loans, particularly in the assessment of the transfer of property. But there is one precaution. Please tell me, will the proposed changes lead to the washing of essentials? If there is such a threat, is the mechanism intended to limit the physical and legal person. That's a question for you. And the second question to the leadership of the Supreme Council is that we don't have the same laws that aren't alternatives to each other anymore, they complement each other, and the committee, instead of bringing them together, is putting them in the hall here, and we're going to be the second bill on the same standards, and the third bill is about the same standards. And what should we vote for on Thursday? And then the question is, for all three of us, we vote, they're all needed. Why don't we take them together?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u81	I agree with the proposal, and this is what I talked about in the report, so that we really have to look at them all together. More than that, it's the same target. But each subject of the legislative initiative sees this objective differently. I think that in the process of processing you can achieve, so to speak, agree to adopt this bill unanimously in the second reading already agreed upon. As for the question of the washout of basic assets, I don't think that's going to happen, because whether an assessment is made or not being made, if the borrower doesn't give out credit, then all of the collateral is going to be realized. And for today, there is such a norm. And that doesn't lead to any washout. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u82	With regard to the observation by Jaroslav Mikhailovich Dreyhog on the question of dispersal, indeed, the question is, will be reported by a representative of the committee. You have to go to him. But it must be said that it is very good that you are already paying attention to the fact that we have the imperfect preparation of these matters. Please, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u83	Alexander Moroz, Socialist Party. Please tell me, in your project, what mechanism is preferred in organizing evaluation activities? Should it be a structure that regulates all this procedure in the state, or should it be some competing entities that give an evaluation activity, hoping for an objective assessment of these subjects? For example, during privatization, the structure of the Holding Fund is essentially an evaluation activity, and they are usually on the side of those who want to take one or another object. I don't think that's going to do the State any good. What mechanism is laid down in your law? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u84	Thank you. We're not interfering now with this project's revision of the Property Assessment and Evaluation Act. We do not interfere with the content of this law. The only thing that's meant to mean is, who needs to evaluate, conduct an expert evaluation? This issue is subject to regulation of the Property Assessment and Evaluation Act. But what we are talking about is that we need to rule out the requirement for a mandatory expert assessment of the property provided in the mortgage. Since this is not really necessary when there are two business entities that agree, so to speak, with an estimate. And I'll say more. If an entity evaluates, for example, a subject of a mortgage, for example, 100 thousand dollars, it does not mean that the banker will give him credit for such an amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u85	Okay. Petrenko Vladimir Sergiyovich, please, and we're done. Petrenko's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Please give the floor to Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u87	Volodymyr Leonidovich, I have such a question. So when we're theoretically told about the draft law, it's kind of normal. In practice, we've seen that what we've been persuading MPs for how many years, these laws work in the opposite direction, is that we've been expecting them to act. And when it comes to evaluation, I never agree with the fact that the assessment will be carried out in the interests of the borrower. Well, there can't be more to be estimated in less or more amounts than the bank could then sell the property that will be mortgaged. Well, let's practically, as they say, go down to the ground and look real. And if this is also to be done on earth, let us also see at what cost and who appreciates the earth. We don't have, in fact, any more land prices. And who's going to charge it? It's going back to the opposite side of this law, it's actually going to bring only disaster in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u88	Thank you. I'd like to say. Until the adoption of the Property Assessment and Evaluation Act, which was determined without agreement with the National Bank, by the way, the requirement for a mandatory assessment of the assets transferred to the mortgage, the banking system had previously lived without this law, the agreement of the parties had been assessed and there were no problems. At the same time, I would like to emphasize once again, the benefactor’s interests have not been violated. So if property needs to be realized, he can always demand that such an assessment be carried out. By the way, you've recently made changes to the Enforcement Act. It also provides that if the owner of the property does not agree with the evaluation carried out by the executive officer, he will refer to the expert assessor. But once again, I want to say that this standard for today is the only one, because it prevents borrowers from getting credit, as fast as possible, and increases interest on paying off services to a special valuer. As for the evaluation, well, I agree with you, but there may be different situations in practice. And I can give you examples right now, I can give you concrete examples where, in fact, the property valuation just goes up, and some that are underestimating property, depending on what interests are being pursued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u89	Okay. This is a discussion already. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. Please. It's a government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u90	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm going to shorten my speech, and I'm just going to emphasize how different these bills are. They're all different. The National Bank’s bill requires, in addition to state and municipal enterprises, that all entrepreneurial structures be released from mandatory assessment. What is our warning to the committee involved in entrepreneurship, support? We know many examples when banks are forced to depreciate the real market value of objects. Indeed, there is a situation that all entrepreneurs today must make an assessment, but there is no responsibility for the evaluation. And that's why the banks don't accept it. They're making a different assessment. And that is why we have a proposal: protocolly, by adopting the law in the first reading proposed by the government, allowing the committee to work together and take responsibility for the assessors, and the responsibility of the banks can take part in this assessment. But if an object of one and a half million is valued by a bank of 200,000, you can see how loans can be made to entrepreneurs. The government project proposes to leave the assessment, not to change for state and municipal enterprises, and to withdraw the required estimate only for microcredit. Why? Because with a monopoly on markets, the value is very high, it can be several times as much as the loan that the entrepreneur is expecting today. Therefore, the government project proposes to withdraw the mandatory assessment only for loans that are equivalent to no more than 15,000 euros. So let's make it a little bit easier without having to spend more time with the bank to work out the government's microcredit system. And the third project, which is proposed by the people's deputies, is that they simply propose to remove the system that is regulated by this law today, for which the evaluation is made, and to write that this is done according to other laws. Regrettably, it will continue to be very difficult to determine who will be involved in lobbying and will carry out a mandatory assessment or take it out in his law. Therefore, we are confident that those who are being evaluated should remain in this law. First of all, these should be state utilities, and maybe on second reading, they should prepare for some kind of responsibility between assessments and banks. Thank you very much. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u91	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Light up, please. Solomatin Yuri Petrovich, next Polish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u92	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Tell me, please, what is the essence of this concept of "independent evaluation"? In recent times, the very word "independent" has gained such a shameful, brutal tone, independent journalism, independent politician or MP, independent evaluation, etc. People don't believe the word "independent." And in the context of the question. An independent assessment -- what does it have to be strengthened to make people believe that such an assessment is even possible under the political and socio-economic system that today took place in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u93	Thank you so much for asking. Dear Yuri Petrovich, there are different concepts of independence: it is political and it is economic. You and I are now discussing the issue of economic independence. What she has, what a confirmation. Just professional dignity. If we don't have professional dignity, and today we have understanding of the union of assessors, associations, they have the right to control every person who has the right to do so. If there is no responsibility, that is, we have made all the presuppositions through the law of professional dignity, but if there is no control and professional responsibility, then there is no independence. Why are you and I interested in an independent evaluation? When, for example, any enterprise or private enterprise has, for example, an apartment, yeah, it goes when it takes credit, and the independent assessor says, "It costs $5,000." And we know that in the market, for example in Kiev, a one-bedroom apartment of less than 13,000 doesn't cost. So it's estimated at only 5,000, and in fact the bank as much as it sells it, it's independent, it's got $5,000 to bet. And that's why I was stressing. If, in the second reading, we also touched on the responsibility of assessing what it was giving to the bank, then the bank would accept it. Because there's no such thing as an evaluation check today. And the bank, I understand the National Bank, comes up showing the room and the estimate is one and a half million, and for 100,000, no one wants to take it. Then the bank has no right to give the money that our population has invested with you. So there's two understandings here. We also understand the National Bank, but all we have to do is control. In every state, the understanding of economic independence only comes from the control of professional dignity, and there is no more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u94	Polczyk Mikola Efremovich. Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Alexander Volodymyr, you are, as always, very logical and convincing. And it was very nice of you to work in the Supreme Council. So, I want to ask you a question. Independent means independent of objective evaluation, because this is how you appreciate it. One day an entrepreneur came to see me. Come on, come on, He made a major repair to the tractor. I spent 10,000 dollars. And then a commercial bank, when it took him as a mortgage, valued this tractor by 5,000 dollars. The bearings cost more as a tractor. That's why I want to. I understand so correctly that you're asking questions about the responsibilities and evaluators of these commercial banks. We understand that it is our National Bank that appreciates as much as possible, the commercial assesses as little as possible. Therefore, there should be an objective assessment and responsibility for it. So you realize that the tractor was taken at a price below the price of the bearings. Yeah? And work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u96	Thank you so much for asking, Reverend Michael Antonovich. I want to say that objective evaluation is an estimate of market value. If you say that, for example, I can sell this cup for $1,000, no one will believe you. It will cost exactly as much as each of you will pay for it. And no matter how objective I write, they won't give up for it anymore. That is, each object and bank will accept an objective estimate of the value that can actually be sold. But if she has no control and responsibility for what you have clearly noticed, there is no understanding of objectivity. And so we propose to adopt a government law in which part of the first step is to allow the assessment to be removed only with microcredit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u97	Please, King Oleg Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u98	You know, we are. In the past, our business has created quite a number of loans. And he's paid enough money to graders. What's more, when we had to make a certain amount of credit, the evaluator said, pay is more expensive, and we appreciated it. I don't think there's any point except in the state property operation to use evaluators. This is my inner conviction, because all the respected commercial banks, as you said correctly, are using their own assessment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u99	Thank you very much, Oleg Anatolyevich. You've confirmed my words.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u100	As for what our banks are doing with such small loans, I want to say what the situation in Russia is now. I've been doing a little bit of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u101	Please make up your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u102	Okay. Please clarify again which of the three bills you specifically support, because you had such a vague position on all three bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u103	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyevich. I'll stress again, you've confirmed what I said. The first is that, to date, it is unfortunately not accepted by any commercial bank and re-evaluated. I therefore suggested that it would be good to give a protocol mandate or strengthen the responsibility of assessors, and that they should be mandatory for banks or that they should cancel it. But you, as an entrepreneur, are in another dangerous position: if an independent assessment is lifted, the bank will evaluate your assets for as much as it wants. And if your object is actually going to cost you 500,000, for example, a bracelet, then the bank is going to tell you, and I'm going to give you more than a hundred thousand dollars. And you're going to get a rather different complicated problem. Once again, I have the impression that I am representing a government project and I ask it to support it, because this is the first attempt to move away from a mandatory assessment for microcredit, and I consider this important. We'll look at all the problems. Those who arise at the same time. If he gets a good confirmation, trust me, the Government will be issuing a cancellation and mandatory assessment within six months for all non-State forms of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u104	Thank you. Time's up. Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. Boris Jakovitch Bespalij, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u105	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! Yuri Ivanovich and I are not an alternative to the other projects presented by Yehanur, and, as Jaroslav Suhi and then Gennady Vasiliev spoke of it, he is a complement. There are two consequences: firstly, it can be accepted in the first reading painlessly and, secondly, it should be combined in the process of preparing for the second reading with those bills that you may also support. What is the essence of our project? We propose that the Property Assessment and Evaluation Act exclude a specific list of asset assessment cases. Why? The first reason is formal and, if anything, the question of legal technology, it's not the subject of an evaluation law at all. The subject of this law is evaluation technology, as well as the activities of self - control evaluators. And economic entities, such as businesses themselves or entrepreneurs, do not use this law in practice. It's different. There's a double. All cases of mandatory property valuation are in special laws, and the existence of another law that repeats this, first of all, leads to contradictions and errors, to confusion that we see today. Moreover, all of these specific cases when considering the Property Assessment Act are considered quite superficially. Dear colleagues, there is no text, especially the text of the law, beyond the specific context. And if we're talking about specific privatisation operations, for example, the laws on privatization of state property, on privatization of small state-owned enterprises, on the national privatization programme, on the specialities of privatization of VAT by Skretelek, and it's not a complete list yet. And these laws just write down cases where you need to evaluate property, when it's allowed, when it's mandatory, when it's independent, and it's perfectly logical, because there's a pretty complicated law, a lot of different cases, and, of course, there's enough to justify it. And so it's just out of the ceiling of the brothers and to guess, in which case it's necessary, in which case it's not, it always leads to some kind of surface. Similarly, the relevant Law on Renting State Communal Property applies to leases of public and municipal property. In civil law agreements with land-based areas, land-paying laws and the Earth Code, etc. And these are the laws that people actually use when they're implementing those or other economic organizations. And that's why our bill with Yehanur supported both the profiling committee and the science-expert administration, because it simplifies the legislative system, makes it reasonable and understandable. We don't lose now, we don't consider specific cases when it's appropriate, when it's not, because it's the subject of special laws. Our bill in the committee of profile, in addition to support, stated such a position that cases, when possible alienation of state or municipal property, should still be left in this law. I do not object to this amendment. But I'd like to pay attention to this case. We're very afraid, and on a reasonable basis, of the theft of state and municipal funds, because we have the right experience and clearly. But, fellow believers, sometimes we spend this money on cases that are essentially unnecessary. So the evaluators -- they're usually private people, and they're also joined by state funds. I'll just give you one example. Article 7 provides for a mandatory expert evaluation, regardless of the form of ownership, if there is an overestimation of the core funds for accounting purposes. During independence, this review took place four times: in 1992, 1993, 1995 and 1996. So it turns out that in carrying out complex corporate accounting transactions, including large ones, private evaluators have to pay off crazy money, but I think that's the same thing as privatisation through auction. It's been known for a long time that we have the most common forms of privatization, either there's an open auction of money that doesn't need a previous estimate, or there's a closed bribe auction. So the situation here is not so obvious either. But that's all, your honorary colleagues, there are details, and in general, I'm stressing once again, both the Science and Experimental Authority, and the Professional Committee, and in its deliberations, by the way, the representatives of the National Bank and the Government supported our project, and we're confident that Thursday it will be supported by you. I remind you, number 2374. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u106	The question is to our colleague? Please sign up, five minutes. Light up on the board. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u107	Dear reporter, it is immediately felt that the laws of the people’s deputies are more qualitatively different, more qualitatively different from any other proposed ones. That's the first one. The other one. I also support the position that there should be a voluntary evaluation. So I want this to be an independent valuation of that property, I'm taking an estimate, not necessarily what it is right now. But I have a question: how much do you anticipate cooperation under these three laws, whether it will be to unite these laws into one government, or whether it will be easier to work with what you are proposing, even though your law, as you have already said, is complementary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u108	Thank you, Mr. Andrey, for your high score. In some cases, forced assessment is mandatory, and this is precisely the case in cases where the alienation of state property is not a way of auctioning and utility property, that is to say, a barrier to theft is to be established. Another question that the assessors themselves, how objective they really are, have talked about this a lot, is our main pain. Second, the prospects for further development. You know, it's been six months since the project was introduced to this rostrum. And we worked very fruitfully with the National Bank, less with the Cabinet of Ministers, but I think it was about a change of government, and normally with a profile committee. That's why I'm convinced that because the governing body for the law-making process is a professional committee from the Economic Policy of the Supreme Council, that we will find a full understanding of the adoption of both the National Bank and the Cabinet of Ministers. I think it's these problems that there are no overwhelming problems here. I look to the future with optimism.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u109	Olga Hinzburg, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u110	Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I apologize, Your Honor, I have listened to several laws, and I have no answer to one question. If, for example, there was a distribution of property in a farm in a village. And in order to meet the needs of every peasant who worked, or who died, or who worked now alive, property, for example, was valued in some villages for expenses, well, $20,000. Or even more so that everyone will have enough. So I'm here under your law, can there be any interference, or influence, or overestimation, or how can you decide to remove the absurdity allowed in the assessment of property in agriculture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. I just think that any job should be done professionally. And in this question, these estimates of the possessions of the colporteurs in the spoiling of the colossal property, they followed the technologies prescribed by this law as imperfect, and that is what needs to be improved. But here's the whole question for those who specifically conducted the evaluation. I think it was in this case that people who weren't interested were being evaluated, but independent, really appraisers. But as far as I know, there's an estimate. If the pie was released in kind, it doesn't matter how it was valued in money, the main thing is to keep a level playing field for all members of the collective farms. And the cases where it wasn't followed, and it wasn't largely followed, I think, every day we're taking a lot of MPs, referring to law enforcement, that's a violation of the law. And I think it's more of an object of activity here than that of the prosecution's organs, the law enforcement agencies, the deputies than the legislative regulations. Just like, by the way, stealing. This is where my colleague Masenko asked a good question, but the problem was not that privatization was that bad or good laws, but that those laws were brutally ignored by those who steal. This little bit is another problem. And so, I think it's a good thing that at the beginning of each session we're taking so many parliamentary questions from specific questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u112	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear reporter! I'm still, like, a voluntary evaluation, a forced property assessment. Now, we know how to make a forced property assessment when there's property in a tax mortgage, then it's sold at such low professional prices, then it's a professional fund, and then it's sold to the people who need it at the right price. I've got a question from here. If that's the way it's going to be evaluated, and then the banks are going to base this assessment on lending. Moreover, the bank does not yet take some objects at an estimated cost, but it does take 50 percent. How legitimate is that? And another question. How a peasant would benefit from this law, when a house in a village is set up in his village, take a cow there or, say, a crop, and he's completely defenseless and he won't get a loan, and there's nothing in the mortgage, even if he wanted to give. How this law works for the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u114	Thank you. And that was probably the last question, and that allows me to focus on our bill. Yuri Ivanovich and I believe that all cases where an assessment is needed, when it is not needed, are quite complex, and even obvious things, such as the assessment of government property or utility before privatization, its obligation, are not obvious. I've already given an example with the auction, and the assessment of the enforcement before the auction is a waste of government money. And that's why all of these cases, including a rather complex procedure and the relationship between independent valuation and the amount, and the obligation of bank loans, are the subject of special banking and banking legislation. And it's not possible for a law on another subject, on evaluation and evaluation, to include it. And that's why we're proposing to exclude it from here, and the appropriate standards that you're proposing to include in appropriate banking legislation. Because, really, it's not that easy to say when it's needed and when it's not necessary, as it's prescribed in this law. As for the village, you're right here, well, I don't know, I have to thank you here, who made up the daily routine: the previous Mortgage Act, it was about the village lending mechanisms. And in that case, when, really, without lending in the village, the small owner doesn't. [[microphone is turned off for 27 seconds]] . ..but I'm stressing right now two ideas that changes to the Mortgage Act are necessary, but they need to be a little bit broader and more detailed than proposed so that people aren't actually being deceived here. So basically, I'm in solidarity with you here. I hope you're in solidarity with me when you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u116	Come on, let's go! Masenko, the line. Turn on the microphone of the people's deputy Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u117	The point is that I'm also at Boris Yakovitch without offense, but because he violated the fact that I'm not right, that I responded so much to the operation of the laws, so I would say to Boris Yakovitch, and to Cherniak, the colleague who sits next to him. Dear colleagues, do not interfere with the legislative field where you do not live! You're going to go to the village, you're going to buy yourself land, you're going to rent it, you're going to rent it, or you're going to mortgage it, and I'm not going to mind. But when you live in Kiev on the asphalt, you do not see the situation in the countryside, let us not be accosted by the mortgage laws. If I don't figure out nuclear reactors, I'm there. I'm not touching the subject. And let's let them solve these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u118	Thank you. Turn off the microphone, please. I'm asking you, why do this? One minute at two. Please, Cherniak, then. Don't call me names, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u119	I think Deputy Masenko was misbehaving to accuse us of being insolent. It's not about who lives where, it's about who thinks. And about agriculture. Obviously, if the farmer has land and there is no money, what can he do about the earth? The question is where to get the money. And you can take the money with a loan. And the loan is a flag. And the payoff calls for an evaluation. There's a whole host of problems here. But let go of the loan to agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u120	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u121	It really doesn't understand anything about what's going on there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u122	Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm going to be marginally concise. First of all, by jurisdiction. I think neither I nor Blackman can be accused of incompetence in legislation, because hundreds of our legislative proposals have been adopted and are in effect. Second, about the land. Earth is sacred to every Ukrainian, so I think it's inappropriate here. Third, biographically. It's not my fault that my grandfather has land in the village of Dmitrovka under Kiev seized and then we don't get land right now and reproach me with it, I think it's incorrect.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u124	Thank you. All of it. Dear colleagues! The account. Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjohin. We are now out of time to consider the matter. Thank you, that's all. We'll assume that this discharge was small. It's very short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u125	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! First of all, I would like to bring to your attention the opinion and position of our committee. On 3 July, the Committee considered a draft law amending article 7. I'm consistent with all three bills. Number 1113, submitted by the National Bank. The bill proposes the abolition of the mandatory assessment of property in the event of a deposit, with an independent assessment of the property in the case of collateral provided for only public and utility property. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be returned for finalization, followed by a re-reading. The decision was based on the fact that the professional evaluation of assets transferred to bail was an important prerequisite for ensuring the stability of banks and should help to avoid situations of money-laundering, bank bankruptcy, and the avoidance of fraud by borrowers and bank investors. During the discussion of the bill, members of the Committee suggested that it might be appropriate and possible to cancel the mandatory valuation of property if it was transferred to the microcredit process. It's Bill 1113-1. The Committee considered it at its meeting on 14 January and decided to recommend adoption as a basis. The draft law proposes that article 7 of the Property Assessment Act should be supplemented by a provision that, if the security provides for the requirements arising out of the loan contract, the amount of which does not exceed the equivalent of EUR 15 000 at the rate of Nazbank at the time of conclusion of the contract, there shall be no valuation of the property. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office for the draft law also believes that it should be based on a number of comments and proposals. The Committee also considered the bill submitted by the people's deputies Bespalym and Ehanurov, 2374. The bill proposes to delete from the law provisions relating to the mandatory assessment of property, in particular article 7 of the Act in a new version, which does not provide for a list of cases where evaluation is mandatory. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers that it is not appropriate to fully accept the changes proposed by the draft. However, the summary concludes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of comments and proposals made. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Property Assessment Act, 2374. A little bit about the situation in general under the bill package under consideration. The Committee is of the view that, in preparing for second reading, draft Act No. 2374 and draft Act No. 1113-1 from the Cabinet of Ministers should be combined and submitted as a single bill. However, as proposed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it may not be possible to exclude part two from article 7 of the law, but rather to leave cases where public utilities are involved. In conclusion, at the request of the Committee on Financial and Banking, I bring it to your attention that the members of this Committee support the bill introduced by Nazbank, 1113, and suggest that it be adopted on first reading. There is also an appropriate draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the People's MP Osika, in which it is also proposed that the bill be adopted as a basis. On the basis of the foregoing, I would like to support the Committee's proposal to return Bill 1113 to completion with its re-reading and to adopt Bills 1113 and 2374 as a basis for the first reading and subsequent integration for the second reading. Now, with regard to the lineage that has been passed, similar bills, we will have eight bills, six and two under the debtor's recovery bill. I propose that all 8 of them be combined when considered in one package. I've got everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u126	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please, well, if you have any questions, write it down for five minutes. We have exhausted time to consider the matter. Light it up, please. People's deputy Solomonine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u127	Yuri Solomatin, Kyiv district, Communist faction Dear colleague, please tell me, will it have some effect if all legislative proposals are adopted, will this have some effect on the disadvantages that have arisen and are still at odds with the valuation of property and with the resolution of these property matters? As an example, I have one thing that I'm looking after right now. The village of Gavrilovka in the Kyiv region, a huge farm that is there. Today it has received a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers about its successful activities. But the people remained deceived. What do these people do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u128	I believe that some progress since the adoption of these bills will indeed be simplified, especially for small businesses. But you have to understand, evaluation is a separate business. Thus, part of this business will suffer as a result of the adoption of these bills, i.e. they will have fewer orders. On the other hand, banks all have, as far as I know, an evaluation group of evaluators who carry out such work. Another thing, when an external evaluator is involved, well, it's probably, you know, for it to be indulgence, which is, you know, not just us, but the evaluator thinks it's worth three cents and we can't give credit. Or on the contrary, I'm a little hyperbolic, but I guess it'll be a plus, especially I think, small business. Farming, which. What's the problem today? Farming puts, for example, Hersonian, I know drip irrigation. But it's destroyed, there's no transformer, there's no line destroyed, and in order to restore it, it takes, in fact, little money, but for a farmer, it's unbreakable. The land he's either renting or buying through a trust procedure is today, an illegal procedure, let's just say, but he can't even bet on it, so to speak, form it. They can't take credit, so the RECs, the skyscrapers, they put out separate electricity requirements. So it turns out there's the same two, three, five thousand dollars for the farmer, and it'll simplify the procedure if we adopt the bill, especially the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u129	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u130	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Vladimir Anatoliyovich, I still have questions, and I'm continuing this subject with regard to the organization of your committee's consideration of the bill. There are three equal, followed by six equal. Please tell us, are you offering us all three to take as a basis? No, it's not. There's an expert office. Your position, the committee, for example, I didn't get it. You and I are going to have trouble voting for a good bill and six consecutive ones. Please tell me a specific question about the organization of your committee's work: did you propose to bring these bills together during the consideration of Bills 1113, 1113-I and 2374? You know, you're missing us here and you're doing what you want. The position of the committee here is unclear. Were the three bills specifically proposed to unite in one and to pass during the vote? We'll destroy the law!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u131	I want to tell you about the committee's work. We have proposed such work, especially in the next eight bills. We even had a working group set up by a decision of the Committee. And yet, all eight bills, because this is the right of the author of the bill. He thinks he should take it separately. Therefore, the authors refused. We carried out this work for both the first and second sessions, because the following bills, for example, are nine. We've considered one a year ago, if you remember, the restoration of the borrower's capacity, and today eight. Unfortunately, however, we have not been able to overcome the initiative of the drafters of the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u132	Andrew School, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u133	Dear reporter, in solidarity with the previous speaker. This is how I learned from your performance. You said, I quote, "1113 is going to read again." Which one, 1113-1 or 1113? You said you supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u134	1113.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u135	I'll ask you a question. That you support a bill directed by the National Bank while at the same time sending it back to read first. So on the other hand, it seems that such preparation is designed to overwhelm Ukraine’s good enough and needed law that regulates evaluation activity? Because it is necessary, but it makes such an impression on some of your performances, especially. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u136	Three bills. First introduced by the National Bank. The Committee's decision is to re-read and finalize, and there are comments. 1113-1 Aleksandra Vladimirovna reported. It's microcredit. We support it and believe that it can be taken as a basis. And we propose that the People's Deputies draft also be adopted as a basis and combined on second reading and submitted as a single bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u137	Time's up. Thank you. Please have a seat. Please, Paul’s motive. We have not yet completed our consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just want to talk to you. Dear authors and committee members! There is a rule in the Rules that regulates this problem, as is now the case under this law and the following. When there are several bills and all are right, and they need to be unified, there is a procedure: all bills are sent together for rereading and one bill is made on the basis of a committee of actors. So there's no problem here, and that's why we can't accept it, we can't reject it. They're all right. What's more, I want to pay attention. On the second reading of the Rules, no laws unite. So the only way out of this situation is to accept all these three bills, send them back to the first reading, and there's still no problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u139	Dear colleagues! Please, let's sit down. It's not a discussion club, it's a session of the Supreme Council, a plenary session. Dear colleagues! I would just like to say about the organization of the consideration of this issue. We're already looking at his hour of regulation and different positions that can't be encountered. I'd like to draw the committee's attention to the next question. The committee suggests that we look at it for more than five hours. Next question. I counted it, more than five hours. How can such preparation be for work? Let's finish the discussion. Let's talk for nine minutes, because we're out of time, and we'll move on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! What we have just seen in preparing these questions is again our incompetence. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that all of these projects, which have been implemented, in particular, related to - at least 2 - changes to only one article - to article 7. And these projects are so tiny, it's too embarrassing to even talk. Paragraph 9 of Part 2 delete, in Part 3 of the word "his bond" replace by "state and utility bonds." This is the contents of the 1113 bill. How much they talked about him! Now for Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel's suggestions. It's absolutely right to suggest that the question needs to be asked in a much broader way. The question of the responsibilities of the assessors she cited. But it needs change. Complementary to the law on evaluation, not just to something that Rikin used to say "something in his nose" -- a narrow question that is now referred to in article 7 and everyone is stuck in this article 7. This is about tax evasion. It's about not getting into the budget of a significant amount of money. It's about humiliation and grabbing. The last example in Odessa, I'm talking to Justice Minister Lavrinovich, Henprosecutor Piscoon, is sold to the department store in a one-night stand. Think of the services that the university needs to provide? And who are these firms close to? And is there even a prosecutor's office in that area, in Odessa, if that's what's going on? That's what I'm telling you about the need for an evaluation and a comprehensive review of the Property Assessment Act, the problem that Mrs. Kugel has addressed today. With regard to the adoption of the bill, what the National Bank is proposing is appropriate. Very well, as it were, to adopt Law 1113 in the first reading. Very well, as long as foreign banking capital was allowed and loans were cheaper, I'm paying attention to this issue to our National Bank. As for the question of Bespalogo’s bill, it deserves partial support, that is, it should be accepted in the first reading, but in part, because there is a full-scale observation, it is impossible. And in general, these bills need to be prepared by a committee in a completely different way and put out here completely harmonized bills where there are no fundamental differences. And as for the government and the position of microcredit, you can see it. But I would have called on a committee to work professionally on all the laws if it was to be edited, not alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u141	Thank you. Boris Bespali, please. Boris Bespallian, will you be performing? Well, you're booked. Valentina Seminouk. None. Vladimir Yavorowski. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u142	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, if you look at what happened. Suddenly, so thick on the same subject, the same kind of laws came out of the corner of abundance. It seems that some of our colleagues, close friends, national MPs may have had the problem of making an immediate bail and thus need to be settled. I'm thinking about what, here's a fellow Suhi who's currently discussing with the Head of the Supreme Council, I just wanted to let you, your honorary colleague, that kind of replica. I have the impression that you want to take the initiative of every national MP who has the right to legislative initiative and that the committee will perform the same function as it did in the same cauldron, mix it well, and then bring it here. I think it's a destructive path, it takes away the people's representative of his, so to speak, personality, his legislative handwriting and so forth. We are once again faced with this problem, which we will face more than one, not two, and not three times. But in this case, we really, Vladimir Mikhailovich, right, said that we are wasting a tremendous amount of time to discuss a single law, and this discussion is simply not productive, because we need to have some final result, that is, for which the bill to vote we are absolutely unable to figure it out today. Because I think that there's a bigger problem here that we should go back to is actually making some amendments to our Rules, some parliamentary experience has already been worked out, and we should work out how we should act in that case. And now I'm just convinced that continuing this discussion is not going to lead to anything, we're going to express every single one of our own or professional, or deviant thinking about it, but as a result, we're not going to come to the final one for which the bill is to vote. Because, I also think, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, it would be okay, let's say, to accept this kind of approval to have a brief discussion, to allow the people's deputies to speak, and then to send this whole package of laws to work out. Assemble the authors on the committee, on the committee, sit down, discuss and submit, indeed, one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u143	Thank you. My dear colleagues, I understand and I have come to the conclusion that when the committee proposes to the session hall, he has already done so. And if that was not done, we had to postpone consideration of the matter. We've been discussing this for over an hour instead of 45 minutes, and we've been over 17 minutes working on, practically, the wax. Question completed. As far as the procedure is concerned, the people's MP, Mother, please. Decisions will be made on the basis of recommendations made by the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u144	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a request for you to look at the first project 2216, it's only a choice and it's going to take a little time, but on this project today, it's all about industry, the state industry, it can't take credit. I think it takes 10 to 15 minutes and we're going to finish this question and open up the opportunity to work in industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u145	Is there no objection? Okay. With the procedure, please, Vladimir Cherniak. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I am also a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and we have a lot of bills and, generally, a lot of bills from the same issue, we have these problems all the time. We take the critical remarks that have been made here, but with regard to the specific issue of evaluation, the committee has made a decision: to adopt the Bespalogo and Yehanurov bill, 2374, as a member of parliament, and when preparing for the second reading take into account the right points and the bill 1113-1 on microcredit and the right moments from the National Bank bill, and on the basis of the adoption of the MP. So I urge you to vote in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u147	Thank you. I'm announcing a draft law on recognition in such a way that the Ukrainian Act on the Introduction of a Moratorium on the Forced Implementation of Property has become invalid. Vladimir Leonidovich Crottuk is the deputy head of the National Bank. It's literally about the dry leftover. Why should this law be abolished?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u148	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, National Bank of Ukraine introduces a draft law on recognition for the Supreme Council, in accordance with the National Bank of Ukraine Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. The bill has been drafted by the National Bank of Ukraine to abolish the moratorium on the enforcement of property of state-owned enterprises and companies, whose statutory funds account for at least 25 per cent of the State's part, which has been put into effect by the Ukrainian Act of 29 November 2001. In view of the adoption of this law, banks, as operators, have no right to implement the assets held for the purpose of repaying the funds that have been lent to the listed enterprises. This law also prevents the bankruptcy of listed enterprises in order to repay their credit debt. The situation that has arisen as a result of the taking of effect of the law primarily has a negative impact on the businesses concerned, since the ban on the alienation of the assets of these enterprises leads to the failure of such enterprises to complete their circulation costs at the expense of credit banks and to carry out their economic activities effectively. On the other hand, lending without adequate collateral increases the credit risk of banks and increases the credit rate for such loans. In our view, the Ukrainian law on the introduction of a moratorium. does not comply with articles 13 and 42 of the Constitution, according to which all property rights are equal before the law, and the State protects competition for entrepreneurial activities. It should be stressed that the State's involvement in the relationship between the creditor and the borrower also does not contribute to an increase in the investment rating of the State and is a significant obstacle to the participation of investments in the economy of Ukraine. We believe that this law violates rights as investors in banks. legal and natural persons, as well as banks themselves, because the inability to implement the assets secured by the loans and the granting of unsecured loans poses risks to the activities of banks that cause their financial situation to deteriorate and threaten the execution of creditors. Bill submitted by the National Bank, supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment. The position of the National Bank of Ukraine is also shared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as evidenced by an appropriate bill last October. We believe that the adoption of this bill will contribute to the stability of the banking system, the protection of the rights and interests of banks' customers, and to the financial stability of enterprises that are subject to the Ukrainian law on the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. In this regard, please consider the bill submitted by the National Bank and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u149	The offer is understood. Is there a question? Please sign up for the questions. Five minutes. Light up on the board. Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u150	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'd like to hear your opinion on the mechanism for the realisation of this property. Is it really in line with existing legislation? Who, then, is the reality that today is forced into debt?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u151	Today, we have a law on enforcement, which, on the basis of the decisions of the courts and the relevant public authorities, deals with the issue of the realisation of this property. And to this day, the norm that is set for state-owned enterprises limits the rights of these enterprises and prevents banks from taking their assets hostage for the purpose of lending them. And I've already talked about it, and it has negative consequences for both the borrowers and the banks themselves, because if property is given more faithfully without collateral, there are also risks in the bank itself, and these risks are clearly and at a interest rate, so to speak, for loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u153	Vladimir Yavorowski. My dear reporter, your report is very clear that the bill will reduce the risk of the bank, it will really have a positive impact on the bank's investors and so forth. So the position of the bank's benefit from this law is absolutely obvious and I understand. But you yourself realize that the moratorium was imposed, not by a good life, but by preserving a large part of government property, because it was the laziness through which state property was transferred into private hands. So I have a question before I press the button or against the law: what, everything that could be stolen has been stolen, and now we have to remove the moratorium in order to instill the remains of that other state property that is, or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u154	Thank you. I think you're wrong. The point is that the bill is not just about protecting the interests of the banking system. Today our producer, which is based on the right of state ownership, cannot function properly, he cannot fill in his circulation costs that he needs for normal activity and can't get credit in a bank. And it's not a risk to the bank, so to speak, because it's an increased risk. They know there's no collateral for lending to a state-owned enterprise. And I think that's what everybody's suffering from.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u155	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, militia of the block of Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u156	Vladimir Leonidovich, I have a question. I was very concerned that you just didn't understand the role of the state in relationships because they said they were limited to saying that the state was only protecting private property and regulating. So I want to correct you, there's one in Lviv, and there's a monograph in Ternopolis. about the role of the State in market relations. It turns out the market doesn't regulate everything. If only as we do from this position, we will die very quickly. That's why the state, by the way, supports those sectors, how they affect national security and create competitiveness in the state in the world economy. And so on. So I want you to just pay attention, because without the support of the banking system, the state can't exist. So I'd like you to pay attention to that. And the question is. Maybe there is a change in the draft in the bill and let it not be necessary to sell all of this, but to allow the enterprise to act at its fear and risk, and not necessarily to force it there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u158	If you support the law passed by the National Bank, then, in fact, the entrepreneur himself will act on his own fear and risk, and the manager of this enterprise, with which he is made, in the state form of ownership with which he is contracted, will be responsible for this risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u159	Yes. Bogdan Costinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u160	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. On November 29, 2001, the Supreme Council passed the Moratorium Law. Not a year has passed, and you, or the National Bank, are filing the Elimination Act, the different moratorium. What took place during this incomplete year, which quality changes took place? We remember that there were abuses of property associated with Specialty. Did something happen, or was it wrong for the Supreme Council to adopt this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u161	Today, I have said this in my report, the Cabinet of Ministers has also introduced an appropriate bill, number 2273, which provides for the improvement of the enforcement mechanism of state-owned enterprises' assets and admits, proposals are made for recognition of those that have become invalid, the Law of Ukraine on the imposition of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. That's why the National Bank first filed the bill. And in October the same bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Leonidovich. Have a seat, please. Oleg Anatolyovich Králov from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I report on the cancellation of the moratorium on the enforcement of property. We all know why it was, you passed a bill in the past.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u164	I'm asking you to calm down. We'll ask you to take a personal break. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u165	A moratorium has been imposed on the enforcement of assets. Nevertheless, the number of bills that the moratorium should be repealed indicates that the reductions from the imposition of the moratorium have prevented those benefits that were due to the imposition of the moratorium. What's more, it hit the state, it hit public enterprises. State-owned enterprises cannot obtain credit today. Those with more than 25 per cent of public property cannot obtain credit. Therefore, the Committee's view: repealing the law on the imposition of a moratorium so that public enterprises can work and so that we do not deteriorate the situation of enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? If there is, please sign in. I wish it wasn't. Light up on the board. Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u167	Dear fellow Kings! This isn't the first time I've seen you in the rostrum, I feel like you're worried about our production. That's the question I've come up with. Could you ask your committee a question? We're all working today to ensure the conditions of the banks. You can ask once such a question as to change the Banking and Banking Act so that banks can work for our production, for the real economy, not for speculative operations. And then maybe all the problems will disappear. Once again, change the Banking and Banking Act, and there will be no problem. By the way, the United States, when it came out of the crisis, is Roosevelt's new course, and they started with that. They started acting in the interests of their own production, in the interest of creating jobs, and all the problems went away, and today the United States is a superstate. Yeah? So let's, maybe we'll think about it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u168	I mean, I totally agree with you. Today, businesses are suffocating without credit. And today we have to go to the conditions that banks dictate and provide them with the most favourable conditions. Because interest is growing right now, it's an enterprise. And I agree with you that we need to change bank laws first. My personal view is that we must have previous evaluation laws and so on, and so on, I believe that we must allow foreign banks to enter Ukraine today. My partners in Russia take loans under 5, below 6 per cent of the year. How can we compete with them at their cost of energy resources? Under five, below six percent. And the evaluators are coming from abroad. If you want to take $100 million, you have enough 25 million to have a statutory fund. If you have 25 million, they give you 100. You don't even need 100 percent coverage. And then it's actually 5 or 6 percent credit. And we have to choose who we're going to protect, or our producers, or our banks. It's a hard way, it's a hard choice. But if we want to defend the manufacturer, we have to give the road here cheap money.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u169	Sergey Matvienkov, MEP of the European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u170	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Oleg Anatolyevich, if you agree with the previous question, then I will continue to ask you a question on this subject and ask you such a question. The National Bank - State structure, 25 per cent owned, over 25 per cent owned by the State, the owner - the State, managed - the State and the relationship, the establishment of the credit system - was a question of the State in general. So what is the point of this proposed bill? If it is 25 per cent of public property at prices below the nominal and some other way, through bail or through default, then let's talk about it, let's raise the issue and we will now discuss it in the Hall. And we're just going to take a picture of this last question. Thank you. Your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u171	You didn't exactly ask the question. If you could just give me a moment, please clarify the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u172	Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u173	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Oleg Anatolyevich, you know, I just listened, I got the impression that you weren't quite familiar with what was going on. This is actually about protecting the interests of the bank and not about any production. You just said there's really no production going on here, and so on, the bank is pulling a blanket, and there's production? What you've said here is a very good thing is that you really need to lower the credit rates that the bank can make for production. So we have to hold this moratorium until we bring our banks in line, and then we'll take this moratorium off. We have 14, there, how much money and 20 percent. Where did this come from? And now we're shooting this moratorium, and you agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u174	The fact that banks are forced to lend loans to enterprises that cannot respond is no one can. And today, when such an enterprise comes in, I was the head of the Dnepropetrov paper factory, and we had 25 per cent of government property, and we couldn't get credit. And I know a number of whole enterprises that can't get credit at any rate, because 25 per cent is owned by the State. We're just killing these businesses. The question is, which of these bills is adopted. My personal point of view is that I prefer the Cabminovese because we introduced, you imposed a moratorium until the bankruptcy and execution were changed. And in Kabminov, these changes take place simultaneously.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u175	Thank you, Oleg Anatolyovich, time is up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u177	One point on this point is that Vladimir Josephovich Matthews is the deputy head of the committee. Will you be speaking, Vladimir Josephovich? Is he gone? Right. Dear colleagues, this is how we will discuss it. National MP Mike, faction of parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs, and "Trouble Ukraine". Yuri Anatolyevich, you're not on the list, so. We don't have it. Well, we can conduct a service investigation, but you're not recorded. Please. Vitaly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u178	I have a request to the deputies who are here today, to see where the position today has turned out to be an enterprise after the moratorium has been imposed. I can say that I'm a proponent of military and other industries that are only state-owned, I'm not talking about other, big businesses. And if you wanted to own your own business today, 10 times would be no longer stateless. But what I'm saying is, when the moratorium was imposed, the work of state enterprises ended. I went through this alone without being a deputy. No credit will be given to any bank. And I could say, here I support the banks, because when you take the money, you have to give up the money. And all we care about is the position of those people today who take credit and know they won't. I took three loans -- three times I gave them away. And I can say that if we don't cancel the moratorium today, we're going to leave the businesses out of a job. I can bring it. Last year alone, I lost six million contracts. Just because he couldn't take credit at any bank with all his abilities, he could get to know the credit that was needed. I can name a dozen more businesses that are in the same condition. So the question is not how to help the bank, we've been dealing with the industry today, we've invited Tihypco, we've been inviting everyone, we've been looking at interest rates, but today it's simply impossible to take any credit. And we're dead. Of course, there's going to be some sort of disturbance, but it's only there, in the Fairyyard. This is the second time. This is a moratorium on this moratorium. And the first is the fear of inflation. They both destroyed Ukraine’s industry in an equal manner. So I ask you to uphold this law. And if we have to ask for those who want to cheat, we need to find laws that would lead to the fact that the violator must be punished as necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u179	Vladimir Kirilovich, will you be speaking? Yeah? Black Vladimir Kirilovich, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Alexiyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, the case scenario on this issue is like a detective. Moratorium is already the result of these events. And the script was like that. The enforcement of assets was introduced in connection with the increase in corporate debt. The problem of debt, the inability of businesses, has forced the enforcement of their assets. But then came the realization of property for nothing, literally criminal cases, scandals, and the theft of property through this mechanism. When we saw this, we introduced a moratorium on enforcement. The moratorium has been in operation for a while. When the moratorium began, it was impossible to get credit to businesses. Here's the problem node, the sad host of problems. How can you untangle or untangle it? There are no clear positive decisions in the economy, and there are no clear positive decisions in the economy. The existence of a moratorium is a risk to banks and the inability to get credit, the cancellation of a moratorium is a risk of property theft. But what's more, and what's less, where's more, and where's less risk if we're going to make a decision. Moratorium is a temporary matter. I share the idea that now the moratorium is more harmful than its cancellation, because we don't allow businesses to get credit. So we may have to go to this decision, in my opinion, to cancel the moratorium. But there are other issues that need to be resolved. Removement of the moratorium should be subject to a reduction in the credit rate, under the objective valuation of the property we discussed above, under appropriate price changes. So there's a whole set of conditions under which we can take out the moratorium. But now the moratorium has turned into a smudge around the neck of those businesses that still give signs of life. So I think we should pay attention to these businesses and give them credit. So I think in the first reading, we need to adopt the law and make changes in the preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u181	Sergei Alexiyuk, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u182	Sergei Alexiyuk, "Our Ukraine." Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. I was forced into this rostrum by the situation today with the Moratorium Law on Forced Realization of Property, which was adopted in November 2001. On the one hand, there is a state that we must protect and a share of it in state enterprises. And on the other hand, there are our voters who are talking to me and my colleagues about the return of a salary that is not being paid to them today. This law prohibits recourse to compulsory court decisions for the property of enterprises whose statutory trust is not less than 25 percent. At present, there is a large number of government executive services in Ukraine, and I would say, a huge number of implementing documents on debt collection on behalf of citizens from enterprises that are subject to this law. Given the economic realities that have arisen in the economy today, the money in the debtors' accounts is missing or scarce, it is not possible to attract the property of the borrowers by virtue of the limitations imposed by the law. Such a situation creates grounds for legalizing violations of the person’s constitutional rights, including timely payment for work. Understanding the importance of protecting the State’s property rights calls for attention to the constitutional guarantees of equal legislative protection of all forms of property. Today, it is difficult to explain to people their numerous appeals and indignations, why the unpaid municipal services are fines, other types of acquisitions for implementing documents, the executioner has the right to withdraw, even for private housing, and to remove the most necessary for the execution of court decisions, and there are so many legal obstacles in the issue of citizens’ concessions. In view of what I said, I believe that this law should be adopted. And those laws that make it possible to steal state property, we need to work with you to benefit all of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u183	Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of Victor Yushchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u184	"Our Ukraine," Yuri Carmazin, "Solidarity," the Party "Protectors of the Motherland." Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, Honorable People of Ukraine. What is now being proposed by the National Bank of Ukraine, on behalf of the National Bank of Ukraine, is an attempt to sell everything that is possible in this country, which is clear on how to sell at no cost. This happened just after a budget committee meeting raised the question that 25 percent were actually giving nothing to the State. We did get the President to order him to do something to the Maintenance Fund. What does the criminal government of Ukraine decide? A criminal government, along with a criminal bank, decides to sell it all. I'll remind you why they passed the Law on the Moratorium for the temporary sale of property. There was privatization and there was a manipulation of Donbasenergo, the Wat “Rosava”, which was intended for privatization. I'll remind you that the cancellation of the moratorium on the enforcement of property should be accompanied by amendments to the Law on the Enforcement of Implementation, the Recovery of the Payability of the Debtor, and nothing. The point is that this will cause a breach of the interests of the State, a violation of the interests of this poor people. The people of Ukraine do not interfere with commercial banks? - I have a question. He's probably in the way. I agree with the committee's rapporteur, Mr. King only in one, and I thank him for supporting my view of what it takes to make the money go cheap, and I pointed out that, in fact, interest rates are much lower in Russia because there are fewer bankers sitting in the Supreme Council Hall. And now we don't have them, and how many do we have, more than a dozen? Where are they today? There's one Chernevski, because he's a national banker, the founder was a bank. All of it. There are no other bankers in the room right now. What? They are now continuing to carry out their duties as bankers. Therefore, dear friends! Dear people of Ukraine! Let's change the president and the government, take down the moratorium. There must be a moratorium as long as there is criminal power in Ukraine. Let's not sell out the state and state property for a penny, everything should work for the average Ukrainian. This is the view of our Ukraine, this is the view of the future, and the future will judge us. Gentlemen bankers, hold on, hold on, gentlemen of the government who want to break this Ukraine. The people will take you to the villa if you continue to do so. And against bankers, corruption has to be broken so that they don't run banks, and at the same time, they don't lobby for their interests in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u185	Thank you. The consideration of the matter was concluded on such a flaming note. As for the decision, we will be decided on Thursday during the vote. Dear colleagues! There is such an offer. We are currently in the turn for a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of the Payment of the Debtor or Recognition of It by Bankruptcy, which consists of six bills. I have already said that if you count the committee’s proposals, you should consider it for five hours. But I'm so sure you won't vote for it. I have a proposal that we now give the drafters in three minutes, they've made a statement, as well as a statement with the co-report of the first deputy head of the committee, and then we've discussed these issues. So we're going to look at it for 25 minutes. Just a minute. And then the rest of the time to talk without asking. Is there no objection? So we have 20 minutes to discuss. I'm asking the People's Deputy Klavov Andrija Petrovich to give a speech. And then Alexander Mikolaiovich. And we've got 15 hours of work on committees, if we still want to, we'll be working in 15 hours. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u186	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Bill No. 2133 aims at the implementation of State labour protection policies in enterprises in bankruptcy. The main task of the bill is to strengthen requirements for arbitral administrators in respect of the proper technological status of enterprises and the requirements of labour law. The bill received a positive response from the economic policy committee on governance, property and investment. The opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council is to adopt the bill on first reading. In short, the arbitral administrators must bear the same responsibility as the managers of enterprises for the state of work in enterprises. Short statistics. I'm just going to give some data that's not very interesting about the coal industry. 80 enterprises are currently in bankruptcy. So, there's, unfortunately, sad statistics. In 2002, 11 000 840 accidents occurred in Ukrainian coal industries. 231 fatalities were committed. The rate of fatal injury in coal industries for 1 million tonnes of coal will be 2.8. That is, 2.8 deaths per million tons of coal produced. I have a request to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u187	Are there any questions? Please, Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! I'm ready to go without these six bills, so none of them will be accepted. We have carefully considered the Bill of Julia Ioffe. It actually coincides with that bill I introduced. In this regard, I officially asked Julia Yooffe to take into account my legal proposals made on behalf of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I call them these proposals, they're very important, which is not in the law of Joseph. First of all, it's a simplification of the procedure for selecting a representative of the debtor's employees. The other one. Allowing him the right to represent representatives of the debtor on the creditors' committee with a decisive approving vote. Third. Allowing the governing sanction to act as a party to a collective agreement. Four. Alignment of the recovery plan with the Trade Committee if the plan provides for a reduction of workers. And the fifth. A change of turn from meeting creditors' demands to the benefit of the debtor’s employees. These are the proposals in my bill that I made in my letter to Joseph. If the author takes that into account, it'll be less than one law. We had a previous conversation, and I think that Julius Yoffe will take that into account, and considering them, it really will strengthen the social orientation of the Debtor Recovery Act or the recognition of bankruptcy. I also think that other colleagues who draft the bill could unite and make one but a good bill. So basically, I'm going to film my bill, and all the suggestions, hopefully, I'm going to take Yoffe into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u189	Okay, thanks. National MP Rajkov Boris Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, draft Act No. 2225, which is now being tabled in the Hall, also provides for greater responsibility for those who accept credit. World practice shows that the development of the internal market is An effective mechanism to increase economic growth. In order to develop the internal market, the State must implement, to a certain extent, monetary policies to reduce the official rates of the central bank, to change the rules of mandatory reserves of credit institutions, to abolish quantitative credit restrictions in Ukraine. In addition, a reliable mechanism for securing creditors'claims is needed. It is this mechanism that will reduce the risk of default and, if less risk, the result is a decrease in the price of credits, the interest on credit, their volumes and actions, and an increase in the percentage of long-term credits in the bank's credit portfolio. At present, the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council has a draft law on the protection of creditors'rights prior to the registration of burdens aimed at the establishment of such a mechanism, but some of the rules laid down in other bills need to be regulated in order for it to work. The entry into force of the Act “On the Enforcement of Conduct” No. 606 of 21 April 1999, as amended further by the provisions of article 34, paragraph 8, has become actively used by debtors to counter the legitimate requirements of creditors, which are enshrined in the relevant judicial decisions. Thus, under this paragraph, only the existence of bankruptcy proceedings by the court was sufficient to stop the execution of the proceedings. Thus, the above provision of the law actually prompts the debtor to initiate a case of bankruptcy because it is quite beneficial. For example, the cost of this is only 203 bracelets. The commencement of bankruptcy proceedings by the court in this case may be carried out both at the request of the debtor himself and at the request of one of the debtor's creditors. In the latter case, the debtor, on a preliminary basis with such a “creditor”, in coffeehouses, creates an artificial debt owed to him, which is the reason for the bankruptcy case to begin. Therefore, the existence of this rule in the law is the main cause of the problem of non-payment in Ukraine and, as a result, the lack of budgets at all levels of a significant proportion of income. This law, the draft law, proposes to eliminate such a provision. And I agree with the fact that there are a lot of such laws today, we agree that our authors agree to unite all these laws into one law. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u191	Thank you. Volinec Mikhailo Yakovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u192	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Act on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Bankruptcy has largely not helped to improve the financial position of low-cost enterprises and improve the competitiveness of manufactured products. According to article 31, all the costs derived from the sale of the debtor’s property were set aside for claims secured by the mortgage, and the cost of the employee’s salary or regression debt and the one-time loss of professional capacity were not sufficient. As a result of the implementation of Ukraine's Debtor Recovery Act, the realisation of assets outside privatization processes has increased significantly, with one third of enterprises being privatized by artificial bankruptcy for no price. In 2001, property was removed by 1.8 billion. Infants, including 1.2 billion Money under tax procedures. The total value of the accumulated property exceeds 8 billion. That's right. In particular, this law has had a negative impact on coal, mining, chemical, and other industries, which are strategically important to the economy of the State. In the coal industry, the main lenders of coal mines, which on January 1, 2000, owed more than 1 billion dollars on wages. That's right. At the same time, mining companies have virtually no funds in terms of bankruptcy. In view of the above, I propose to amend Article 43 "The Personality of Bankruptcy of Particularly Dangerous Enterprises", para. 7, which provides that the requirements arising primarily from bankruptcy obligations to employees of the bankruptcy enterprise are met, namely, the liquidation of the debt on wages, the obligations arising from damage to the life and health of citizens and the payment of the termination of relief to workers of bankruptcy, and then the claims secured by mortgage. This is in line with Convention No. 95 of the International Labour Organization for the Protection of Wages. Article 11 of the Convention provides that in the event of bankruptcy or liquidation of an enterprise, employees employed in the enterprise will have the status of privileged creditors with respect to the wages they are required to receive for services rendered during a period leading to bankruptcy or liquidation, which will be determined by national law or for a salary that exceeds the amount caused by legislation, the salary which is that. The loan will be paid in full before ordinary creditors can claim their share. Thank you for your attention. I also propose that the committee unite the projects that have already been reported here into one, and I am ready to continue working on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u193	Thank you. Leonid Mikhailovich Czernovecki. Where's Cherniewsky? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u194	Dear Chairman, distinguished People's Deputies! Leonid Czernovetski, 112 constituency, Ukrainian national deputy. My bill is binding. Well, it's very simple, and I hope you'll support it, although not so many people in the hall. It deals with the following strange situation: when the debtor wants to withdraw from the payment of the debt money, he is now entitled to do very simply by law: he can agree on 5 bracelets with his friend, become bankrupt, and immediately the execution is suspended. In fact, today's situation, it's for the benefit of fraudsters, it's not about public enterprises that use this moment very well, and the bank that is meant to invest money in various projects is also obliged to look into the eyes of a borrower, an honest person or a dishonest person, because if he is dishonest, he can do as much as he wants to incur bankruptcy, and this article is totally unfair. I don't remember the history of it in the law, but unfortunately, it does. So my bill has been fully endorsed by the committee, and it has not raised any questions. Here's the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u195	Thank you, Leonid Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, it was your suggestion that we consider the following two bills: 2392 and 2267. If there is no objection, then suggest that Sobolev, national deputy Catherinechuk, and then from the committees. Is there no objection? Please, Sergey Vladislavovich. And then we'll have a discussion together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u196	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear friends. The questions that have been settled in the bill, which has been tabled by the four people's deputies, are in fact related to a rather key topic that has just been raised by my colleague, Czernovetsk. In fact, this refers to the deliberate avoidance of the payment that creditors are obliged to make in the event of bankruptcy. To date, a fairly clear scheme has been put in place, according to which, after the case has started and the enterprise is declared bankrupt, the legislation has set up about 40 days for the procedure to begin. Regrettably, the schemes that allow these cases to be handled today in courts of 2, 3, 4 years. I gave examples in the report when these cases are being considered after a year, two years, but my advice in court has given me the opportunity to reveal, it turns out, even more terrible facts when such cases were being dealt with in even greater terms. Thus, legitimate creditors who have the right to demand payment of debts actually stop when these matters are considered in court. That is why the formulation proposed by a group of national deputies is the following. In the event that a business bankruptcy is under way, a press release is required, since today a scheme is in place to start a fictitious company that is not going to require any reimbursement. In the end, the issue of direct press printing, as required by legislation, does not come to light. Thus, such a matter can be dealt with for years. The second issue related to this is another regulation that allows for the actual initiation of the procedure for payment of debt obligations through the clear wording given today in the bill. In my opinion, if we can, and our bill is supported by a professional legal committee, and the Committee on Economic Policy, bring together those six bills and two bills that will now be reported, they are actually regulating separate actions of individual articles, which will allow for substantial changes and a clear procedure for dealing with business bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u197	Thank you, Sergey Vladislavovich. Mikola Dmitrovich Katerenczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, first of all, I wanted to add to what Mr. Sobolev has already said, that this bill is primarily aimed at securing the constitutional position enshrined in section 9 of article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that one of the basic principles of judiciality is the duty of the court. The entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of the Provisions of Article 34, paragraph 8, of this Act has become actively used by debtors to counter the legitimate requirements of creditors, which are generally established on the basis of appropriate court decisions. According to this paragraph, only the fact of the bankruptcy of the borrower was sufficient to stop the execution of the execution. The same reason for stopping the execution is very often followed by the executioner, since the latter is no longer necessary to perform any executions and to comply with the execution deadlines. These provisions are also in line with the relevant rules of the Debtor Recovery and Recognition Act, which establish an appropriate moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors, irrespective of the fact that, inter alia, some of the creditors' claims are supported by the relevant implementing documents, primarily by judicial decisions. Clearly, such a situation does not have the right to invest because it contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine. It also undermines the authority of the judiciary. The socio-economic and other consequences of the adoption of the draft law are, for example, the following. First. The constitutional status of judicial decisions will be restored. Creditors will be given the guaranteed opportunity to complete their claims to the borrower. And the last. There will be fewer cases of artificial bankruptcy and other abuses in this area. I agree with Soboljev’s proposal to unify these bills. It was suggested that we do it with Mr. Sobole's committee. And the last. I'd like to ask the rapporteurs not to use the argument that we add in our accompanying notes about a particular bill. I think it's plagiarism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u199	Dear colleagues! I invite you to speak to the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Anatoliyevich Demjokin for two bills, again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u200	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the protocol and substantive features of the situation. During the first and second sessions, the activity of actors in the law of the legislative initiative vis-à-vis the law under consideration was very high. We currently have ten bills, including today's chronology of their consideration and presentation on board, you can see for yourself and see how the bills have been done. However, despite the fact that the situation today can be characterized as cumbersome, but we believe that it is permissible and therefore the committee, when considering successive bills, has made a decision on all of them, which I will now tell you to do. All bills, with the exception of Bill 2267 of the People's Deputy of Catherinechuk, are proposed by the Committee by a majority vote to be adopted on first reading. The Scientific and Expert Office has made positive conclusions in favour of six bills, with the exception of 22,225, and Deputy Catherinechuk, 2267. [[This is Galliev and a group of deputies]] They're offering to say no. In view of the above, I will not talk about the specificities of the draft legislation, because the authors have already addressed these issues. I'd like to say that. make the main conclusions. The adoption of amendments and additions proposed by the drafters of the bill under consideration would, in the view of the Committee, help to improve the mechanism for the recovery of the debtor's capacity to pay and recognition by bankruptcy. For each of the bills individually, and the bills were considered as they were received at various Committee meetings, as I have already said, most of the heads had decided to submit them for consideration and to take them as a basis. Except for 2,267 bills. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, since 12 November, the Committee had decided on 12 January to establish a working group and the working group on second reading to prepare the bills under consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u201	Thank you, Volodymyr Anatolyovich. From the government I invite you to speak with the Minister of Economics and European Integration of Horoshkovsky Valeri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u202	The honourable Presidium, the honourable national deputies, all these bills that have been tabled today, can of course be consolidated into a single bill that, as proposed by the committee, should be created by a working group and drafted by a single bill on the subject. For the consideration of the National Deputies, there is bill 2273 on amending certain laws of Ukraine, which in fact solves the task not only of lifting the moratorium but also of removing the causes of shadow privatization, which has served at some point in time to adopt the moratorium. So when I hear a question from you today: Was the Supreme Council wrong? So I could say, no, I wasn't wrong at the time. And of course, when that moratorium was adopted, it actually allowed him to move away from shadow privatization schemes, but the same law required the government to develop certain legislative acts that were not actually able to implement these schemes. The government has proposed such a law, and the bill itself is proposed to amend a number of Ukrainian laws, such as the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay, the enforcement of the bill, the order in which taxpayers' obligations to budgets and state-owned trust funds are repaid, and the "Probation" bill. The very change in these bills, in our view, will allow us to solve the second task given by the Supreme Council to the government, that is, to ensure that privatization processes can be carried out properly while leaving the shadow privatization possible. Actually, if we're talking about the bill's task, we've seen a couple of them. First of all, it reinforces the role of the State in the person of the State's bankruptcy body, the privatization bodies, the branch authorities in the administration of state property, in the conduct of bankruptcy cases. And the second main task is to preserve in bankruptcy procedures and the industrial alienation of assets of enterprise integrity, the preservation of domestic production and jobs. We think we've decided on these changes. We propose to support the committee's proposal to set up a working group that will generalise all proposals for both the national MPs and the government, and will allow us to adopt a single law that will resolve the issues raised by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u203	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Eight national deputies signed up for the performance. We've got 15 minutes to talk, so I'm gonna have to be brief. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, you are opening the debate, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u204	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! In fact, I'd like to now that we're discussing eight bills at the same time, that we haven't had one yet, and I'd like us to go back to the Rules, which determines, if more than two weeks later, the bill is not an alternative and is not being considered together. This is clearly recorded in the Rules. And that diagram they showed was actually supposed to be the answer to the question. But one way to get out of the question that we're now in, is we're looking at eight bills. What do you want to do? I am very grateful to both Mr. Stoyan and Mr. Jooffe, and to other authors, such as Clivev, who agreed to unify these bills because the committee would not have had the right to unify them without their will. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to separate the provisions of the bills proposed by National Deputy Wolinz from the amendments to article 43 of the law, which provides that the requirements arising from the bankruptcy obligation of the employees of the bankruptcy enterprise, namely the elimination of the debt on wages and the liabilities arising from the damage to the life and health of citizens, must be met first. Because for the time being, they are content in the second order. This is very important for citizens, for employees of businesses. It is also very important that we offer the Chernobyl and Sobole review procedures in time. So I would ask if all the legislators had agreed that they could be united, then unify them and vote as the only bill. So the Supreme Council will determine the question of concept. What should be considered on the first reading. At the same time, it will enable us to make changes on our second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u205	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u206	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'm very short. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to support you, to begin with what Karmazin finished, which should be a human being in the first place. 'Cause it worked out so well that she's on the last one today. Everything that's done is worse for people. Hence, a person’s first priority should be to pay the right amount. And I would simply like to formulate this as a protocol mandate of the government. The government needs to develop a strategy for developing its own agricultural production, because today we have in agriculture all 90 percent of the current bankruptcy, the industry about 50 percent of the bankruptcy. I mean, we can. We'll just destroy everything. So we need to develop a strategy, and for agriculture we need to get out of the simple ones: agriculture without State support can develop in the tropics. It's not tropical, it means to create conditions for both competition and incentives to work, but it has to be state support. With regard to industry, there should be State support in the external market and thus the protection of its market. I mean, government, I don't see Horoshkovsky Valery Ivanovich, Horoshkovsky needs to study the ocean as they develop their strategy. No, no, just going to learn how they develop their development strategy and how they protect their market and their manufacturer. And so from the point of view of the Rules, I will repeat, to the future, that if there are many bills, we have, according to the Rules, the only option: to send everyone back to re-reading and form one bill, because on the second reading, no laws unite, you will not know where to make proposals, because it will change. Yeah? From. So I generally suggest that they all be sent out for a second read, and then out. Once again, I apologize, read, and come up with an appropriate proposal that takes into account all the better things that are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u207	Thank you. Olga Hinzburg, get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u208	Hinzburg, 151 constituency. I spoke on this law when we discussed matters, we discussed the law, we discussed the law, and we discussed the law that Joseph had introduced, which had already been voted on in the first reading. So today to supplement this law, which has a basis, I would like some questions to support the proposed Stoyan bill. That's the first one. And I want the representatives of the Directorate and the Corps to hear it, which is in bankruptcy. This is the proposed law, the change is a representative of the debtor's employees, who is supposed to represent the employees' interests in the bankruptcy process. That's the first one. This employee is to be elected to congregations where there are no less than three quarters of the total number of employees of the enterprise who are subject to bankruptcy. The main thing is that this person has. His voice is not as advisory as it has been before, namely to be an equal participant in the congregations and a member of the committee of creditors, the purpose and the right to vote should be his. What's important is that these issues, which are covered by these projects, are the layoffs, the procedure is the release of workers. And considering that the unions are monitoring compliance with the legislation when employees are released, when the enterprise is bankrupt, in liquidation, their representative should be involved in the work of the liquidation commission, including. And the main thing that should be expressed in these laws is that I wanted to, and I think, but of course that's not going to be in this system of things, of course, we won't, but that's first and foremost, because the liquidation companies, its employees, are using the state of affairs. the creditor, the salary must be paid out of order compared to other payments. I'd like to finish first. What's the problem today with the bankruptcy of businesses, I have this thing in the district mostly in every business -- it's not paying wages at a working business, it's not paying, it's holding, it's holding, it's holding. Then the non-payment of wages on a company that bankruptcys, they hold, they don't pay, and then it's still very fashionable not to pay the wages at all, and the businesses that bankruptcy, they sell once, they sell another time, the third time, and it's all like that with the breach going on, but it's a fact. When I finish my speech, I would like to say yes. In every law, in everyone. If you want to do something and get the best out of it, for example, if you have the best in a person, it's the best way to do it, it's the law to do it. If you want to do it on your instincts, then the law may not work like this. We need to uphold this law in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u209	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u210	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine In many cases, the Ukrainian law on the restoration or bankruptcy of the debtor does not provide for the possibility of an appeal against decisions of the Master Court in bankruptcy cases, which violates the rights of those involved in these cases. Yes, the law does not provide for the possibility of an indictment of a misdemeanour in a bankruptcy court’s decision to declare the debtor bankrupt and to open the liquidation procedure, article 22 of the Tribunal’s decision to remove the arbitral tribunal from performing its duties. [[Article 11]] In particular, there is a need for legislative security in the first place, a complaint by the court of the household about a violation of the bankruptcy case, an unjustified violation of the bankruptcy case, according to the law, is no reason to stop the implementation of the case. Infringements in bankruptcy cases, especially if unwarranted, have a number of negative consequences for the debtor’s business. As a result, the arrangement of the debtor’s property with the appointment of an arbitrator managing the property with a substantial limitation of the debtor’s rights as an entity of entrepreneurial activity is introduced. The introduction by the court of a moratorium on the satisfaction of creditors'claims, which deprives businesses of the ability to account with creditors for existing debts, the imposition by the court of a debt ban on the alienation of property, the rest on property and other measures that secure the creditors'claims. Unwarranted violation of the bankruptcy case following publication in the central print authorities of the Government Courier and Voice of Ukraine, the announcement of a violation of the case and the disclosure of all competing creditors with their monetary requirements, could in the future result in a real bankruptcy of the enterprise, i.e. the debtor, the sale of his due assets for the repayment of debts and the liquidation of the borrower's business as a legal person and the dismissal of his employees with all negative social consequences. Therefore, part of one article 11 of the law needs to be supplemented by the words "the resolution of a violation of the bankruptcy case can be challenged in a certain order. Of course, it must be the case for an economic court ruling to declare the debtor bankrupt and to open the liquidation procedure, since this ruling is the central case in the bankruptcy case and is of interest to the enterprise. Even from the point of view of basic justice, it is unacceptable that there is no possibility in the arbitral tribunal to challenge the court’s approval of the removal of the arbitral task of bankruptcy. So I also suggested that laws should be unified into one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u211	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the Party of Industry and Occupational Enterprises of Ukraine Get ready, nigger. There's no Nigger anymore. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u212	Dear Head, honourable deputies. You obviously know the history of general bankruptcy legislation, and it started with the fact that the first law we were guided by was the law on bankruptcy. And it was the law that preferred the creditor, not the debtor. Then, taking into account the time spent by Ukraine, we passed a law on the restoration of payability and the recognition of bankruptcy, where the emphasis changed and in particular the basic instruments of protection were shifted towards the debtor. It would seem a good idea, but in view of the fact that we are still living in a real society like this, it turns out that the debtors or the alleged persons with him abuse that position. And quite often, the creditor began to suffer. So those bills that have been tabled and discussed today are largely caused by this particular concern about the situation that has arisen to protect the creditor's interests in bankruptcy cases. And it seems to me that most of the suggestions that have been made today deserve attention to be considered by the Supreme Council and accepted in the first reading, but on the condition that they are united, since such will has been expressed. Now, if I may take this opportunity, allow me to perform the regulatory task of informing you, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Policy, of the Committee's attitude towards a number of draft laws on these issues. In particular, the Committee on Legal Policy supported Mr. Soboljev’s bill, which aims to streamline the process of stopping the execution of bankruptcy cases. As for the project, the committee didn't take the decision, it wasn't enough for either of us to vote against. But given that they are united, I think the problem itself is solved. In conclusion, my dear colleagues, there is only one thing I want to say. The process of improving the bill on recovery and bankruptcy. And if the Supreme Council's mandate is to form a joint, I would stress, joint committee of the Economic Policy Committee and the Legal Committee, because the majority of the issues are about the application of law. Jurisdiction. So such a union would be beneficial and we could work together effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u213	Sergei Matvienkov. You'll be out of town? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u214	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear friends, I just want to say one minute. Perhaps the fact that we are today considering such a number of draft laws of a wide variety and amending this law is perhaps a reference to the quality of the law itself, the bankruptcy. That's the first one. Second. The fact that this law has now become the mechanism by which we carry out the transfer process or the change of ownership has become clear and clear. The fact that there are now certain detailed, sophisticated schemes that allow us to change the owner, using the bankruptcy law, has also become clear and clear. How much money there is today from business creditors who have set up money for an enterprise, and then for tomorrow there is bankruptcy for 3 bracelets, harshly speaking, and not a penny can get out of that enterprise -- that is also understandable and clear to everyone. What am I talking about? To the fact that today there is indeed a need to weigh and evaluate this law in terms of its usefulness in the economy. For the purpose of this law, we must raise and resuscitate the enterprise. Let's answer the question, how many enterprises have we resuscitated with this law? I'm trying to answer, for example. Maybe someone knows or the committee will tell you how many enterprises have actually been rehabilitated. What am I talking about? In order for the Committee to be better able to consider all these laws, they must be consolidated, passed and voted. But I think there is a need for a holistic integrated approach to addressing this issue and for a global issue of bankruptcy, which would change the system's core, to close all those niches that are now being used both for the privatization process and for the non-payment process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question is bills, I want to list for the transcript -- number 1349, 2046, 2133, 2225, 2259, 2273, 2392, 2267 completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. The procedure is the People's Deputy Manchulenko. Is It With a Motive? Why do you have a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u216	George Manchulenko, 203 District, Cherniewec Region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, we have the next draft of the State Border Service Act. I'm going to say it's already such a long-suffering bill, it's been considered by the Committee on Security and Defence for several months now, the reform of StateCordon has matured, and this bill is exactly the first step in reforming the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border. So I would ask your support, and my colleague would consider it today so that we could vote tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, this applies to renaming, so that we don't have foreign troops, but we have the service to have fewer belligerent names at least. That is, we consulted and made a decision that we would discuss. Please, very briefly, the First Deputy Head of the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border, Šišolín Pavel Anatoliyovich. You know, if we don't talk, I can't go home.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u218	Mr. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the College of the State Council, thank you for being able to consider this issue today. These bills are fundamental and will determine the future of the protection of the state border for a long time after adoption, and these draft laws are being drafted by the State Committee together with the Supreme Council Committees since 99. The need to draw up the laws of the day is due to the following factors. First of all, in the foreign policy sphere, the strategy of Ukraine's Euro-Integration Objectives and the need to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, to bring the borders of the European Union closer to Ukraine's borders, and consequently to the need to bring donations, forms and methods of protecting the state border closer to European patterns. In the internal political sphere, through administrative reform, increasing threats to illegal migration, terrorism, cross-border crime at the border, especially its organized forms. In the legal sphere, the need to bring state border legislation into line with articles 3 and 4 of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It should be noted that as early as 2000, the President signed an action programme aimed at reforming the border forces into the State Border Service. The draft laws submitted by Ukraine provide for the establishment, on the basis of the military formation of the border forces of Ukraine, of a law enforcement body within the limits of the number of the State Border Service, which, for the first time in accordance with the Constitution, is based on the basic functions defined in the draft law, as well as on more than 10 new powers and tasks that will ensure security on the state border. It has to be noted that most of these powers that we have incorporated into the draft law today are being carried out by the border forces and are defined by internal normative acts or by the Cabinet of Ministers, or by the StateCordon, but they must be of the nature of the law. I would like to point out that we've been working with our colleagues on these documents, and we're noting that most of our neighbours, including the Russian Federation, and our Western neighbors, have been reforming them. It has to be noted that the subject of legal regulation of the draft State Border Service Act is the functions, the overall structure, the number, the organization, the mandate and the order of operation of this law enforcement body, and according to the first law, amendments are made to most of the 12 bills on this issue. I would like to point out that the College of the State Committee is very grateful to the National Deputies and Committees that discussed the draft Law on the State Border Service, and a number of comments and suggestions that the Committee fully agrees with have been put forward and will be considered after considering the draft law in the first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we very much ask you to adopt these bills, because in fact this is a new reform of our foreign affairs according to the requirements of the present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u219	Any questions, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u221	No, no, there is a question. National Deputy Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u222	Bogdan Costinjuk. Your Honor, I'd like to support this bill, but it seems like it's just going through a change of name, that is, a change in the sign-up, and in fact the foreign troops are still military formations. I'd like you to make it right. The fact is, the Constitution of Ukraine says that military formations cannot impose restrictions on the rights and freedoms of citizens. Evidently, this law came into existence. But the recruitment at the border of the army is likely to continue to be carried out by the military. And essentially, it's still going to be military formation. So how do you understand how those who will serve in the foreign armies, well, make sure they are not really military formation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u223	Thank you so much for your question. It's really right. I want to say that this is not a change in the sign-up, because for today we first introduce part three, fourth article 17 of the Constitution, because armed formations do not have the right to restrict citizens' rights and freedoms. Every day we limit the rights and freedoms of citizens. Today, more than 300 citizens of both Ukraine and citizens of foreign countries are being held in temporary detention facilities. Therefore, first of all, we must bring into line with article 17, part 3, 4, of the Constitution. It's on one side. On the other hand, I want to tell you that for the first time in the draft law is defined accordingly again to the Constitution as a function of foreign intelligence. Accordingly, there is more to this than I have said to ten new powers that we are implementing today, but they must be defined in our legislation. Yes, indeed, at first we will be assembled by the military. But this is not contrary to existing practice. Today, law enforcement structures, such as security services and a unit such as State Security, are assembled by military officials, but they perform full-fledged law enforcement functions. For example, after adopting such a law in 70 C.E., the Federal Border Guard Service went to replace the last military officer as a law enforcement officer for 29 years. This is the same stage that Hungary's foreign affairs were going through, no less than 10-12 years old. Therefore, the drafting of a general military obligation law does not contradict this. We're going to be a law enforcement agency. Today, there are only two laws that give some interpretation of the law - enforcement body and what military formation is. This is the Defence Act 2000, which states that there should be three aspects. It's a compilation, a task, and a way of doing it. If the Ministry of Defence is made up of military personnel, its main task is to defend the territory of Ukraine and the way it is carried out is military action or fighting, then the border forces, consisting only of the first principle of military personnel, have completely different tasks to protect the state border and carry out their tasks, not by fighting or military action, but by daily military action.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u224	Thank you. Very convincing, Paul Anatolyovich. Thank you. No more questions? Thank you. Please, from the Committee of Vladimir Dmitrovich Simonov. From the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u225	Vladimir Simonov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Head, honourable colleagues, according to the commission of the Committee on National Security and Defence at its meetings, have twice considered the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers bill on Ukraine’s State Border Service and amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the creation of Ukraine’s State Border Service. The main issue raised by members of the committee when considering the bill was: the definition of the legal status of the Ukrainian State border service, particularly as regards the military service and its structures. With regard to her mandate to conduct a pretrial investigation, to function in an investigative isolation system, to create special units to combat organized crime on the state’s border. Similar comments to the bill were made by members of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, as well as by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People’s deputies did not support the above - mentioned provisions of the bill, which was informed by the leadership of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine. After that, the head of the Democratic Republic of Ukraine, Mikola Mikhajlovich Litwin, wrote that he had agreed to remove the above - mentioned bills. With this in mind, the National Security and Defence Committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted on the basis of a committee’s mandate to work on it, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by subjects of the right of legislative initiative, and to bring them to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. In doing so, I will point out that the adoption of these laws does not require additional costs and expenses from the State Budget, which will be made within the limits envisaged for the maintenance of foreign troops. I'd like to point out that the ink on the budget signed by the President has not yet been dryed, and that our individual sharp MPs from the famous faction are already making proposals for the withdrawal of funds from the State of Ukraine. So how do you understand that? We're creating a service, we need this service, we want it to work, and it's being limited. So I propose, I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this law in the reading that has now been presented to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u226	Any questions for our colleague? You don't? Thank you, Vladimir Dmitrovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need for discussion? Please, Olga Hinzburg. Please. Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction, turn on the microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor in connection with the fact that in my town of Konotapi, and there in my district, these are the border towns where the border guards always work, and I would like to ask them to support this bill. But after reading it for a while, some questions arose. And I just wanted this observation to say that it's in the transcript. Public formations of public order that can be created under the law in the course of mass action. This may be some mistake or some misunderstanding. I would like to emphasize that. But in general, the law must be upheld, for the military formation of the border guards must work according to our state. But if it were my will, I'd open up a border in Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u228	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u229	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The same law was passed back in 1999-2000, and I considered it, and I was the author of this bill, and the employees and the working foreign service committee, and I mean the foreign military, and other experts. Then we were misunderstood. We didn't realize that we wanted to live in Europe, we didn't realize that we wanted to have a law enforcement agency. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that now times have changed, and, thank God, everyone understands that such a law is necessary. I wanted to focus your attention on the fact that we give the border guards the right to carry out an operationally controlled pass through state control of persons at or outside the crossings, that we grant the right to operational search activities, to fight organized crime and to illegal migration. And what's more, we're going to demand and ask for the management of the border services to do that, because today corrupt authorities don't provide objective information about it, it's on those ships that we're talking about, 80,000 tons of sugar-cheese, more than a thousand wagons are being transported and our agriculture is being destroyed. So I still have hope today for the least corrupt law enforcement system is a foreign service. I think we just have to look at it, but I have a serious comment. Where we're saying that the control of the Supreme Council, article 28, I would like it to be written in the same way as in article 29 of the President's control. That is, the Head of the State Border Service systematically informs the Supreme Council’s management of the main issues of the State’s foreign service. That's how it's supposed to be written, because we're going to civilian control of military units, and the overseas service is going to stay in the military for a long time. Without civilian control, including the two basic committees of the Defence and Security Committee and the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, it is not possible for such a law enforcement body to operate. This has to be written separately, and it's going to correspond to the basic operational law. which regulate the control of those units that carry out law enforcement activities. This has to be unified. Parliamentary control must therefore be further regulated here in order not to be used in any way for a treaty to some political force. And thank you for your attention and would like to accept this bill and support the border guards. Call it political power. She's missing today. The one who's offering to take the money off the border. It's a faction with the letter "o."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u230	Thank you. Don't do this, please. Who else insists on the word? Manchulenka, Onichuk. I'm only asking for a very brief, distinguished colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u231	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! As they say in the nation, changes are needed. And changes are needed, including within the State Border Protection Committee. We yearn for it. Living by European standards. We study their legislation, including legislation relating to the protection of the State border. And it is clear that in today’s form the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border and the Border Guards do not fit into the model that is today in European countries. And it goes against our Constitution. As a result of these considerations, a draft law on the State’s foreign service and amendments to other legislative acts was prepared in connection with the adoption of the Law on State Border Service. A very good question raised by my colleague Kostenyuk. That is the question I was asking quite sharply at the meeting of our National Security and Defence Committee. And we received a very comprehensive answer on both the committee, and now in the session room from the first deputy head of the General Colonel Shisholin. I would like to stress only one thing: that the process of reforming that State authority that protects the State border is very long in time. We're just taking this first step right now in carrying out a wide-ranging reform of the state-of-the-art cordon. I would ask all my colleagues to take full responsibility for this, because, in fact, we want to be like European countries, where a completely different structure for protecting the state border is not what we have today. We want to look like a civilized state so that our legislation is consistent with our Ukrainian Constitution. So once again, this is the first step in the broad reform of Derkkomcordon. I think our committee for second reading will be very careful to take into account many of the comments that have already been made in this room. I think there's going to be proposals for a second reading to get into the normal version of the State Border Service Act. This problem is today, and it needs to be solved, and as soon as possible, it will be better for us and for the border guards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u232	Thank you. Mikola Oneschuk, then Nightshenko. I'm asking you more concisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u233	One minute. My fellow Members, I just want to draw your attention to one question, particularly to the constitutional requirement of article 19 of the Constitution, that the legal order in Ukraine is based on the fact that officials, state bodies are required to act exclusively within and in a manner prescribed by the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Instead, today, and a very timely legislative proposal, the activities of the foreign forces and in particular the Foreign Committee are also regulated by the President's decrees, and by the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees. And it is very good that this bill came into existence. We need to raise the level of legal regulation of all relations related to the activity of this important public authority, which performs the external function and supports it for adoption in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u234	National MP Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Urgent Ukraine," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u235	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will vote in favour tomorrow for acceptance as a basis, but I do. The 160th constituency is 5 districts, and all 5 border areas. So I'd like to pay particular attention to the maintenance of an existing network, because this will soon be the only military formation in my district in the area. The other one. More clearly, two points are the relationship with the local executive body and the second is the connection with the population. That's what I'm referring to when, for example, without the necessary information, the transition closes, in the morning was the crossing, and in the evening, the iron plates and the 20 meters on the left, you can go around, and you can't go through. This needs to be taken into account in view of the fact that the agreement signed between the two leaders and the arrangement needs to be implemented, including perhaps an increase in the budget. Today, it was said that there was no need for further consideration of this issue in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u236	Thank you, too. No one insists on the performances anymore? We'll assume that we've completed the discussion on this issue, and we'll make the decision on the day of the vote. We don't have four bills. Do you have an offer? Mikola Schulga, please, Mikola Alexanderovich Schulga.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here today a final question that directly relates to this matter of foreign service. This is about amending the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners. The substance of the changes is contained in a few words, and it is about allowing the foreign service to expel foreigners who violate the relevant rules. This is the essence of this, this change. So I'd like you to support this bill and we could vote on it tomorrow. What's the matter? The fact is that earlier this right had only internal affairs, and the border guards had no opportunity to expel those who were violating our laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-05-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, there is no objection to the fact that we are now considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Aliens, number 2290, the information has already been reported by the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Mikola Alexanderovich Schulga. Is there a need to discuss and consider this document? We'll assume that we've considered it and we'll suggest that we make a decision on the day of the vote. Is there no objection? Thank you. And we're not going to keep working, because there are no reporters. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 hours of work on committees and factions. Tomorrow's day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. I sincerely thank you for your work.
