ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:01:12]] Registered -408 There are 408 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I ask the National Deputies to sign up for applications, messages and suggestions, while I announce the parliamentary requests that have come. But before that, I would like to tell you that today is the birthday of the national deputy of the Ukraine of Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich. Let's welcome him and wish him well. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Dragniboka - the Attorney General of Ukraine - to check the possible tax evasion by the Lviv Directorate of Skrutelek. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:02:26]] For 148 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajko to the Prime Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the inflammation of the Anakyi School of Social Rehabilitation and the replacement of the head of the educational institution. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:02:59]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kirilenko, regarding the non-response of law enforcement and agricultural authorities to the socio-economic problems of the inhabitants of the village of Osokorovka Novo-Vrontsovsk, in the Herson region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:39]] For a-117. Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the payment of salaries to employees of Zagorolskikhimbulu. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:08]] For 114 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of regressive appeals to disabled persons and families of dead and dead miners. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:38]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Gregory Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the formal actions of the State Property Fund regarding the effective use of public property objects. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:07]] For-151 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudzkowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on issues of social protection for victims of the ČAES accident. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:35]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikoli Pisocki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing an immediate capital repair of a number of emergency facilities in Lugansk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:01]] For 105 Decision taken. Raisie Bogatyrov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the cessation of the closure of the mine of the name of the 60-year-old Soviet Ukraine holding company Donugil and the repayment of debts to miners. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:31]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Grigory Bondarenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of counter-repair work at the Szczerbakovy Water Refuge in the village of Gor Pistovarovka Voddarski district of Kyiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:05]] For 104 Decision taken. Ivan Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of traffic information for about forty million tons of grain in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:32]] For 175 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the completion of the school in Novograd Wallinsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:59]] For 115 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Pashtowatenko, Zarubinski, Masterskin, Hinzburg, Ribauk - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regime of crossing the state border during the journey of Ukrainian citizens to the Russian Federation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:31]] For-170. Decision taken. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the unconstitutional order of the Minister of Science and Education of Ukraine to set up lecture groups from teachers of higher education institutions to explain to citizens the changes proposed by the President of Ukraine to the Constitution of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:05]] For-160. Decision taken. Yuri Shirka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of social protection of pensioners in granting them municipal subsidies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:35]] For-160. Decision taken. Ukrainian National Deputies Groups: Katerinczuk, Skomarowski, Demiński to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inability to obtain Ukrainian citizens' passports by residents of the Kozatin region of Winnick. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:07]] For - 139. Decision taken. Andrea Polita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the suspension of the decision on the location of a settlement colony in Komsomolsk Poltava region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:39]] For 116 Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in the absence of an answer to a request regarding the purpose and circumstances of the signing of the 2003 declaration in Moscow on behalf of the Government of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:15]] For 121 Decision taken. People's groups, I'm sorry, Les Tanjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment of salaries from 1 January 2003 to the employees of the State Theatre Art Centre, Les Kurbas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:49]] For 133 Decision taken. Group of Ukrainian National Deputies - Katerenczuk, Skomarowski, Demiński to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the closure of schools in the Hemlinsky district of Winnick. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:20]] For-166 Decision taken. Alexander Rimaruk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the Legality of Construction in the Territory of the National Cinema of Art Films of Alexander Long's Multiple Apartment House. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:59]] For-153 Decision taken. Anatolia Cukoba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the promotion of electricity tariffs, rail and freight transport and prices for the production of metallurgical enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:31]] For 111 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Tomic, Karmazin, Maupuk and others, only 20 deputies, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-subordination of the Institute by the Ukrainian Academy of Agricultural Sciences. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:04]] For 131 Decision taken. Victor Petrov to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, in connection with the closure of the hospital in the village of Skomoroshka in the Oratov district of Winnitsky. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:34]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Valentina Seminyuk to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko for bringing the normative documents of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy into line with current legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:08]] For-141 Decision taken. Mikli Pesocki to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abuse of regressive payments to miners in the city of Krasnodon Lugansk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:43]] For-151 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Pashtowatenko, Zarubinsky, Masters, Hinzburg, Rybauk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on obstacles to Ukrainian citizenship by Ukrainians living in the Russian Federation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:17]] For 245 Decision taken. Paul Movcan to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the Poltavsk City Council to prescribe the district attorney’s office for the election of the Poltavsk city head instead of the explosive. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:49]] For-140. Decision taken. Lev Mirimsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the Government of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of legislation of the implementation of the regional order for the purchase, storage and implementation of food grain in 1999-2000, resulting in significant budget losses. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:31]] For-93 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudzkowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conflict situation that took place in the stockholder company SP "Rosava" from the payout. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:04]] For-146 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies: Alexiyuk, Shirko, Assadchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the sale at low prices of property of the Ukrainian State Export and Import Bank 100 per cent of the shares of which belong to the Ministry of Finance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:39]] For-151 Decision taken. John Plush to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory investigation into the murder of a resident of the city of Baturin in Chernigiv district of Dmitr Gorban. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:09]] For-167 Decision taken. Paul Mouchcan to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of landowners of the rations by the management of the Society with limited responsibility for the "harvest" of the Heat Region of Winnitsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:39]] For 112 Decision taken. Yuri Shirka - to the Attorney General of Ukraine - is investigating the facts of the embezzlement of property and the abuse at the Reven-Silmash plant in the Plain region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:08]] For 112 Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenko, the Attorney General of Ukraine, in connection with the lack of response to the actions of the Ukrainian National Deputy Vladimir Szczerbany, which contains the signs of the crime provided for in article 385 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, namely, the illegal conduct of the leadership of the Sumsky District Administration, which goes beyond the authority of the Ukrainian National Deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:51]] For 177 Decision taken. Mikoli Karnauha - to the Attorney General of Ukraine - on the unsatisfactory course of investigation by the Lozov Interstate Prosecutor's Office of the facts of gross violations of legislation during the election in the 1-seat constituency No.180. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:24]] For a-117. Valentina Seminouk - to the Attorney General of Ukraine - about the illegal actions of Alfa Shield employees who refused to allow the Ukrainian National Deputy to sit in the 1+1 television company for the broadcast. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:56]] For-153 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Tomic Tereshuk and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the criminal offence and the arrest of former Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kozachenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:30.]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Stanislava Phydenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of the employees of UBZ, the investigation and experts of the Žitomir region involved in the illegal arrest, detention and beating of Major Borzotz's military officer. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:02]] Z-91 Decision taken. Lev Mirimsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation by the leaders of the Agricultural Associations of the Peoples and the "Friendship of the Peoples" of the Red Guard Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which led to a sharp deterioration in the standard of living of citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:38]] For-125 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the purchase of medical equipment and equipment for Kirovograd City Hospital No. 3. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:07]] For 122 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the number of complaints by voters about the inability to obtain a passport from a Ukrainian citizen due to the absence of forms of passports for internal and foreign use. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:38]] For 121 Decision taken. Leonidas Czernovecki to Minister of Health of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the problems of organizing medical care for disadvantaged citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:06]] For-90 Decision taken. Andrew School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on an objective investigation into the use of weapons by a police officer against a taxi driver in Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:35]] For 118 Decision taken. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the repayment of credit debt and the completion of the gasification of the Zacarpatsky District Tachiv Professional List. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:04]] For 121 Decision taken. Victor Pinzenik to the Minister of Culture and Arts of Ukraine for the non-privatization of the National Film Studio named Alexander Duzhenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:31]] For 158. Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the allocation of targeted funds for equipment for medical facilities in the city of Nikopol. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:59]] For-99 Decision taken. Mikoli Krutza to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster to compensate for the damage caused by the flood on the Bistrica-Nadvornańska River in the Ivano-Frankov region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:32]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mary Markusz to the Ministry of Transport for the continuation of the Edelways train route from Uzhgrad to the town of Tacheva Zakarpatsk district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:59]] For 134 Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the financing of environmental protection from the State Environmental Protection Fund. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:27]] For-92 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the formal approach to the trial of the Kirovograd District Court of Road Traffic. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:57]] For-98 Decision taken. Boris Bespalogo to the head of the State Tax Administration in Kiev for dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal regarding the enforcement of the Order of the Delhi District Court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:27]] For-94 Decision taken. Mikoli Melnika to the head of the government of the National Bank of Ukraine for compensation for the damage to the agricultural society Lipivka of the Vinick region of the Bank of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:56]] Z-91 Decision taken. Dmitry Rudzikowski, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, on the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the State Register of Natural Persons, Taxpayers and Other Compulsory Payments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:26]] For-60 The decision is not taken. Andrea Polita to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the abandonment of the complaint of the Cerkas Association of Shareholders, the Strommashina factory, the Hope Judge of the Supreme Court of the Cherkas region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:59]] For 111 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Turmanov, Škina, Hara to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conflict situation in the city of Dérginsk Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:33]] For 134 Decision taken. Alexander Dove to the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio in connection with the letter from the Head of the National Council on the verification of licences for cable television operators who are subject to entrepreneurial activity but are not teleorganizations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:10]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikoli Kroutz to the head of State Affairs, the President of Ukraine, for the fulfilment of his obligations to the village council of Krikhovci, which took place in the establishment of the national residence of Sinjor in the region of Borocan Ivano-Frankiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:46]] For-154 Decision taken. All requests made, voted. Ivan Tomic, what do you have? Please list the names of the national MPs who sign up for the talk. Please, Ivan Tomic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Twenty-four national deputies from different factions signed a petition to the Attorney General regarding the violation of the case of former Deputy Prime Minister Kozachenk. Please re-vote this request.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the request of a group of national MPs to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of a criminal case and the arrest of former Deputy Prime Minister Kozachenko. I bet on the vote to send this request [[10:34:08]] For - 183 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! We have 30 minutes to make statements, messages, suggestions. Bondarenko Viktor Dmitrovich, faction of our Ukraine, please. Get ready to cook. Is there a Bondarenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u4	Yes. Vladimir Bondarenko, city of Kiev, faction of our Ukraine. Please give the floor to the deputy Sergio Ratushnyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u5	Sergey Ratushniak, please. Is there a Sergey Ratushniak?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! In the Zakarpatsk region, in part of our sovereign state, Ukraine is in a medieval situation where our entire area, its entire territory, with resources, including human resources, is transformed into a Medvedchuk lati. Everyone who disagrees is not a member of this party, and they use the press of fiscal authorities, the press, the information press, where national taxes use national radio and television, the district newspaper only to water the dirt of all those who are not members of the SDPU(o) who do not belong to the Medvedchuk latifudia. To whom these devices are ineffective at night come in one of the police cars assigned by Medvedchuk and the bandits in one car. In the morning their statements appear that they do not so vote, that they want to enter the district rural, urban, district council in the faction of the respective MP. Verifications of structures directly or indirectly linked to 10 deputies Of the 11, I emphasize, I'm speaking out of the 10 national deputies. We're just 11 from the area. Tests are about to start a documentary test. Destroy. And where the criminalization of all members of the people's deputies, using the central channels "1+1" and "Inter". This is supported by the head of the district court, assisted by the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Supreme Court, a representative of the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Kudriavtsov. Please, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, give the commission, consider, firstly, my request, to entrust the committees of the Supreme Council with the local self-government and the law enforcement authorities with the task of dealing with a situation that comes out of the control of the state. We already have the Slovak and Hungarian press in our defenses, we're going to raise the rebellion, and we have 10 people, we're going to lead it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u7	Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u9	Chubarov's reaction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u10	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! It's the second week of military action in Iraq. It's not just the military that's dying. Many victims include children, women. The population of Iraq is threatened by a full - scale humanitarian disaster. The entire region was also threatened by an environmental disaster. And while our state has the least bearing at the time of the war, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should not limit itself to a declaration condemning military action as a means of resolving conflict situations. Therefore, I would consider it appropriate to accept a special appeal to the United Nations by the Supreme Council of Ukraine tomorrow with an urgent invitation to hold a special meeting of the General Assembly of the United Nations. [[I didn't vote!]] Let us not forget that Ukraine is one of the founding nations of the United Nations. And you can see that this places a special responsibility on Ukraine for the role of the United Nations in the world. And the second. The events around Iraq are actively used by politicians of different levels and competences. In doing so, many expressions are not merely speculative but are limited to the level of inflaming mistrust and suspicion among Ukrainian citizens. So recently, General Willen Martirosian, Head of the Military Coordination Council of the President of Ukraine, made a public statement that according to him, the Muslims of Ukraine are allegedly planning to send volunteers to Iraq. As the Martiros say, I quote: "We saw such volunteers in Nagorny Karabas and Chechnya." I don't know if there was a Ukrainian General Martirosian in Karabasa and Chechnya during military events, but if there was, the question is, Who sent him there, and for what purpose? But what this general says about sending Muslims to Iraq as volunteers is, to put it mildly, falsely, this is what I say from this rostrum. I want to finish my speech with an anecdote. It's my first time. Sorry, the original language. They're doing brain surgery on the colonel. The surgeon takes the top of the skull, removes the brain. He's running away from the messenger headquarters: "Friend Colonel, you've been assigned the rank of general." Colonel jumps in, grabs the feed, and runs to the exit. The surgeon screams at me, "Friend Colonel, what's your brain?" "Why do I need them now, General?" I'm not implying anything by that anecdote. Don't let the senior officers take offense at me as senior reserve lieutenant. But I urge everyone to think with their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u11	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic faction of Ukraine, to prepare for her. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u12	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Franchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u13	Igor Francchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The introduction of a compulsory public social health insurance is a strategic area for the reform of the national health system. As is known from the past, Parliament has found strength to move away from thinking about whether health reform is needed or not and has been able to pass a law on compulsory State social insurance on two readings. However, it should be stressed that in the past year's Parliament's work has never been able to adopt a bill as a whole. In our view, the main reason for this is the resistance of generally hidden medical officials to reform health. With regard to the evaluation and work of the previous management of the Ministry of Health, Parliament recognized last November as unsatisfactory, and the current leadership in June of this year will still have to be reported in accordance with the decree we adopted with you on 28 November 2002 on the information of the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of affairs in the national health system. It should be pointed out that paragraph 5 of the regulation requires the Parliamentary Committee to intensify its work on the preparation of the draft law for third reading. In addition, the Government is prepared to take steps to expedite the adoption of the bill and to establish a compulsory public health insurance system in Ukraine on 6 March this year. Thus, there has been a real opportunity for concrete coordinated action by Parliament and Government in this regard. In order to ensure that this opportunity is not lost, we ask the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to provide a protocol mandate to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health, Motherhood and Childhood, to inform Parliament of the status of drafting a draft for third reading. I am asking this question because, as the author of the bill during the year of Parliament's work, this assembly was never invited to a meeting of the Committee, although he has repeatedly referred his proposals and questions to prepare for third reading. And the last. We want to assure our constituents that the united Social Democrats will have enough political will to finally bring about a real start to the reforms in the medical sector. I appeal to the people's deputies of the current recruitment - to complete work on the basic health insurance law as soon as possible. I believe that only the consolidated actions of parliamentarians can overcome the crisis in the national health system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u15	Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction. Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u16	I'd like to give it to Eshchenko Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u17	Vladimir Yeshchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the national constituency, I would like to make a statement of the address and resolution expressed by the voters of Cherkaščina at the protests that took place in Cherkas and in the Cherkas region in March-month. "President Kuchma and his bankrupt regime are virtually doing nothing to fulfill the promises made in President Kuchma's appeal to the people on 24 August 2000, and in his address on 5 March this year accuses the opposition forces of delaying political reform, thus trying to mislead the people and divert the people from the protests against the anti-national regime of Kuchma. Once again, the President's announced proposals aim to extend the term of office, to substantially strengthen its mandate and finally monopolize the power in the country, through a two-story system to destroy Ukraine as a whole unitary state and to bring chaos and instability to the work of the Supreme Council, to give the Constitutional Court additional grounds for a decision on the President's third term of office. Such Presidential proposals are unacceptable to society and diverge with the initiatives of democratic opposition forces on the principles of genuine democratic political reform. The opposition forces of Cherkaščina address all residents of the region, workers, peasants, businesses and implementers, teachers, medics, students and students, men and women, military and pensioners, and all who feel the patriot of Ukraine, who are not indifferent to our destiny to unite and not to allow reforms of the "tuchmish" and full and final monopolization and power in Ukraine. Come out on April 5th for the district protest "Rise Ukraine!".. Second address. Church voters are deeply concerned about the imminent threat of global war in the Middle East, U.S. aggression against Iraq. Over the centuries, U.S. dollars have been celebrated by the robbery, the colonial takeover of other nations. The first to use nuclear weapons against humanity was to drop nuclear bombs on Hiroshima, Nagasaki, and poisons in Vietnam, to break up the Korean Peninsula, toss Grenada, toss the Storm in the Desert, and now to destroy Iraq with rocket attacks and bombings. We appeal to all national MPs to defend the Iraqi people, to prevent the destruction of the Iraqi nation. Because the U.S. doesn't have terrorists, it's not weapons of mass destruction, it's economic interests and black gold. Today Iraq - tomorrow Ukraine! Get your hands off Iraq!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u19	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist faction. Prepare Dashutin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u20	Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers'Rights. Respectable people's deputies, respected drivers who may hear me today. I am speaking today about Bill No. 2072, which will be considered today, unfortunately, in favour of a shortened procedure. The essence of the law is as follows. Today, some forces are trying to recover all that was done by the former Supreme Council, which is positive under the traffic rules. The essence of the law is to restore the right to choose rights on the ground, to restore the right of the machine to enforce fines, to increase fines on certain points from four to twenty times and a number of other reactions and ill-treatment measures, in my view. Actually, I'm not going to expose him, because he's going to be considered, and I'm going to expose him. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Mazurenka Bill, 2072, is practically in violation of all the bills adopted by the Supreme Council on this issue. Therefore, I call primarily on the people's deputies not to make mistakes and to respect themselves, we have adopted these bills. I would like to draw attention to the political aspect of this issue. The fact is that today I found out that Law 2072 was not signed by the current Prime Minister, it was signed by the former Prime Minister of China. And I appeal to the pro-government factions, if you want to prepare ten million drivers to respond negatively to the policies of the current Cabinet of Ministers in this part, please vote in favour. I invite the people who will present the bill today not to report it at all for the sole reason that I will be with Yanukovic, as Prime Minister, on this issue and will necessarily track down who put the new Cabinet of Ministers under this law today. It is too difficult for the Cabinet of Ministers to have 10 million drivers working actively against this Cabinet of Ministers today. I would also like to mention that, according to the Mazurenko bill, I don't know what faction it's from, but I don't think the faction of SDP(s) will take political responsibility for this reaction bill either. Therefore, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, I ask that we treat this bill with consideration and that we do not allow it to be arbitrary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u21	Gregory Dashutin, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine". Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u22	Please, I'd like to give Mother Vitali Ivanovich the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u23	Hello, Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u24	Statement by Ukraine’s National Deputies The destruction of the last few years in the agricultural sector has been a direct result of its reform, the substantial reconstruction of land relations, the structural transformations in the agricultural sector and the adaptation of agricultural producers to market conditions. Thus, deep concern is caused by attempts to exploit the fact that last year in Ukraine there was a significant harvest of wine and an increase in the volume of its exports. On the basis of assumptions about the causes and consequences of the temporary increase in the cost of grain, former Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister was accused of agro-industry complex Leonid Kozachenko. In particular, he is being incriminated by acts that seem to have contributed to the State’s interests by purchasing large quantities of grain by foreign grain traders and exporting it outside Ukraine at reduced prices. At the same time, the idea of food shortages in Ukraine is being promoted in the media, anti - reformist attitudes in society are being developed, and reforms in the agrarian community are being challenged. In this regard, Ukrainian national deputies who signed the application are concerned about the possible consequences of arbitrary interpretations of the activities of Ukraine’s domestic and international grain market participants and the potential risks posed by the general public. in the analysis of the situation that has arisen. We ask the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy and land relations to prepare and submit a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status and urgent steps to improve the functioning of the domestic grain market. We also ask the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Mr. Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscoun, to consider the adequacy of the measures applied to Leonid Kozachenk in connection with his activities as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of the agri-industry complex and the head of the Commission on Agriculture Policy with the President of Ukraine, including the measure of precautionary action chosen for him. In order to ensure proper parliamentary control over the course of the investigation of Leonid Kozachenko's case, we are proposing the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft decision of the Supreme Council on this subject will be proposed on the day of the vote. Eight factions, over 40 members of the Supreme Council, signed the appeals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u25	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Get ready for Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! Frost, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, 83 constituency. I'm being asked to speak to the Supreme Council by a group of Colossus agro-firms in the Mikhail district of Zaporez. I'll read the original language, that's the phrase: Please provide us with assistance in the current situation and from the arbitrary organ of ODS in Zaporozhye district from the Agrotechsynthesis agro-firm. That's the point. [[It's called "Colossian Agro-firms"]] In May 2000, Mihaylovka Zaporozki District was reorganized in the Mihaylovsk Interstate Combustion Plant, located on Tereshkova Street. In January 2001, another enterprise was operating on the premises of the company. These two enterprises are then merged into one. For some time, three of these enterprises were normal in one territory, each engaged in its own activities. Since January 2000, however, the Office of Agrotechsynthesis-Tavria and the former combinor plant have been trying to purchase shares at the lowest cost. Despite all the references, so to speak, to the power structures, this group has not achieved a positive outcome. Then, in April 2000, the Agrotechzintez Holding officials, located in the territory of the former factory, in order to restrict access to and counteract the legitimate business activities of the Syntheuse Agro-company, carried out an action by vandals, drove the Titan Guard, threw away all the working agro-company “Colos” of the plant, and the event was further developed as follows. The Colossian Workers' Office of the Colossus Agro-company requests that measures be taken to the employees of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in Zaporozhye area, which have done so, so to say, the view that they have acted unlawfully, as well as to the leadership of the Public Security Service of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs, which, for 11 months, has been disrupting the operation of the company. Our leader has tried to protect us and our rights, but Agrosynthesis has told us directly that the entire police force of Zaporozhye County has been bought and will soon throw us out of the business. W. On 24 January 2003, the Security Service did so with a working group of Colossae. I addressed Interior Minister Smirnov Yuri Alekseevich from this rostrum. The commission arrived yesterday, apparently from Ukraine's MMF. The head of the Colossian agro-company was arrested 72 hours before the Commission arrived, and when the commission arrived, the leader was arrested for another 10 days and taken into custody in the village of Lake Wesselovo. This is the reaction of the People's Deputy to the unlawful actions of law enforcement officials. I think that the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine will deal with this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u27	Alexei Babourin, Communist faction. You don't? Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u29	Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u30	To the Ukrainian People's Deputies. It's a conversion. For several days now, the peoples of the world have witnessed the impunity of the peaceful Iraqi population, the cultural and historical values of the world's civilization. The innocent blood of women, old people and children is at risk, not only of environmental disaster, but also of this local aggression in the third world war. The United Nations Security Council has proved powerless to do anything to prevent the newly declared Hitler of the 21st century, Bush and his satellites from unleashing a bloodbath against the almost unarmed Iraqi people. The message of peace, which has always been cynically covered up by the United States and NATO, has long been trampled on by a "Natov boot". It was destroyed in Yugoslavia, where Natov bombs were buried under the rubble of houses by thousands of Yugoslav civilians and where its peoples are still reaping the devastating consequences of using nuclear missiles. NATO and the U.S. have finally crushed and dusted this branch in Iraq, where the most recent means of destroying the population are being used with sadism. More and more often, it is from the mouth of a Texas hawk that threatens the use of nuclear weapons. Against this horrendous background of the threatening world war, the criminal peak of the Ukrainian authorities, in the eyes of their people and the world public, has established Ukraine's reputation not only for the criminal regime but also for the prostitution regime. The Kushmov regime, breaking into words about the peaceful policy and non-block status of Ukraine, will persistently knock on the door of the criminal alliance to join NATO. What a peace bloc his debutantes have shown. Polish Bolt specialists, making themselves known as desperate hoodlums, deserve the praise of the American palaces. It is the President, his ministers, Zlenko and Shkidchenko, who are doing everything possible to ensure that our army and Ukraine fill the ranks of war starters and war criminals. And all of this is done behind the people's back, contrary to their desire to be in union with the Russian and Belarusian peoples. Ignoring not only moral but also international law, the Ukrainian authorities have collusioned with the aggressors and have agreed to participate in their coalitions by directing a military unit to the area of hostilities. This issue was long resolved between the United States and Ukraine, as U.S. Ambassador Carlos Pasqueal made clear on 4 March, while in the city of Harkov. The discussion is only about which country to house the battalion. That is what the Ambassador Bush said, and then the American President called Ukraine a member of the anti-Iraq coalition. We, like many peoples of the world, condemn the Nazi aggression under the auspices of the United States against the people of Iraq. We request that this address be sent to the International Tribunal. We indignantly condemn those members of the Supreme Council who have contributed to Ukraine's involvement in the criminal war rather than deceiving the confidence of the chosen people. We share the view of many peoples of the world that the UN headquarters cannot be located in the United States, in the nest of aggression, in the country that exerts constant pressure on the organization, discredits it in the eyes of humanity and does not comply with its decisions. We invite the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the Governments of Russia and Belarus, the founding country of the United Nations, to take a joint initiative before the Governments of all countries of the world to move the headquarters of the United Nations to one of our founding countries of the United Nations or to one of the neutral States. We propose declaring Ambassador Carlos Pasqueal of the United States as a non-grate person for unabated pressure on the Government of Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u31	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u32	This is the referral of Harkov regional organizations, the All-Ukrainian Union of Soviet Officers, Harkovština and the Union of Women Workers for the Future of Ukrainian Children to the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u33	Anatoly Matvienko, a faction of Julia Timoshenko’s block, will perform instead of Gregory Omelchenka. Please. get ready for Leukyanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u34	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues! Sadly, each day we receive reports of new victims of a deadly disease called acute respiratory syndrome, also called atypical or Chinese pneumonia. The ease of air-bath disease distribution, the difficulty of running it, the lack of effective treatments, the high rate of airworthiness creates major problems not only for individual countries, but also for the world as a whole. On this background, when nations resort to unprecedented measures of sanitary safety, when China, for example, cancels the traditional economic forum, our President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, with a large number of accompanying individuals, visits to the region of the world where the epidemiological situation is the most difficult. The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor demanded that the President postpone his visit to Hong Kong until the outbreak of the disease could be extinguished. We are concerned not only about Kuchma’s personal fate but, above all, about the high risk of an acute respiratory syndrome in Ukraine. We are not reassured by yesterday's statement by the U.S. spokesman Markian Lubkovsky of the presence in Kuchma and the persons accompanying him with the means of individual protection. And I want to ask Kuchma and the M.E.S., and what means do we have to protect ourselves from that disaster? The absence of effective protection against atypical pneumonia today is evidenced by the fact that the disease has not even escaped high officials, Hong Kong officials, particularly the minister of protection. Sadly, we have not heeded our warnings, and we see another manifestation of criminal irresponsibility and personally Leonidas Kuchma. That's why today we demand that the Minister of Health and the Chief Sanitary Doctor of Ukraine take all measures to the President's post, including to the President himself, after they return to Ukraine tomorrow. We don't rule out the fact that they need to be completely isolated. And please consider this not a joke, but a requirement for the safety of our people. We today, the Sobor Party and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, require the government to strengthen border control to prevent the disease from entering the country. We need to inform the National Deputies urgently of how ready our country is for the emergence and treatment of atypical pneumonia. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we also ask you to give a task to the committee of profile, after all, to perform these verification functions and to report to the Supreme Council on the situation in general and on the conduct of this entire team that returns from Hong Kong and Leonid Danilovich Kuchmu in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u35	Please, Leveko Lukyanenko. Dear colleagues, there was some misunderstanding as to why Matthew and Leukyanko were speaking, the point being that they had written notes that Gregory Omelchenko and Constantine Mercury Sitnik were passing on their right to speak according to Anatolia Matvienko and Leuk Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u36	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u37	They were written down, but they handed over their rights in writing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u38	Leukko Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko faction. Address to Kiev City Head Alexander Alexander Omelchenka Your honor, Alexandre Alexandrovich, it has forced you to address the situation that has recently taken place in Kiev in the state language of the Russian Federation. It seems that authorities in the capital have lost control of language legislation in external advertising. Individual commercial structures are in violation of advertising and language legislation with a special dimension. The mecha empire's embroidery lights up the whole division, and Daniel's shop is built near the dawn itself. It's just a vul. The red and red army streets, which have not yet been renamed, are twenty-two. Private firms insolently hang huge shields in English and other foreign languages on the street walls of their facilities. The management of the system and design in Kiev had previously responded to such violations, but with Rumshin’s arrival there she refused to do so. Letters and complaints from citizens and public organizations describing the numerous facts of the production of signposts in Russian, English, French, and other languages that our citizens in general do not understand, not only do the authorities in the capital not respond but they do not respond. Dear Kiev City Head, since you signed the city's comprehensive programme of measures for the development and functioning of Ukrainian language in Kiev for 2002-2005, it has been a long time. However, the capital does not feel any disturbances and actions of authority towards ending language laws in education, trade, services, transportation, external and internal advertising. It seems that no one needs the program except those who have prepared it. Ukraine’s capital continues to lose its Ukrainian face and remains a deeply ruined city. And to grow up, foreign people are added to foreign languages, which are generally not understood by our people. Instead of becoming the capital of the great European nation of the Ukrainian nation, Kiev is transformed into a short - lived city, some faceless Babylon, and it is not surprising. In Kiev, there is no systematic control over language law enforcement, there is a program, and there is no one to do it. We ask you to organize a special session and approve the decision to execute this program. I would also like, honourable deputies, to draw your attention to such a evocative fact. The head of the State Administration, Victor Medvedchuk, said that most Ukrainians use Russian, is not true, because the census proves otherwise. For such an anti - Soviet position, Medvedchuk would have to be removed from office, and therefore the head of the Ukrainian Republican Party, Anatoly Matvienko, has already addressed the President with this appeal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, the time is, unfortunately, exhausted, although many other national deputies have shown a desire to speak. Mikola Melnik, please have it. Please have a line or procedure. Turn on the Melnik microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u40	I want to get out of here. Give me three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u41	I can't. Time's up. Let's do something different tomorrow. The replica is one minute, if you have, or if you have, or if you have a procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u42	If I'm being repulsed, I'd like to say, honourable deputies, with heartache and a scream in their hearts, there's not a dozen deputies who want to draw the attention of the President and the government to the critical situation that has taken place in the village. Unfortunately, neither Kuchma nor the government officials are yet aware that the village is dying, or perhaps knowingly, are planning to destroy it, this entire agro-industrial complex. On the ground of this year's peasant robbery. Banks have tightened their loan requirements, with a interest rate of 25 percent today. Credits are granted only to short-term clients. Lands that are unable to cover loans before the deadline are set are subject to fines. Banks refuse to overcredit. And all this in the eyes of our distinguished President Kuchma, Prime Minister Yanukovic, Head of the National Bank of Tihypak. No one with common sense will say that these national men live for the Ukrainian, for the peasant, for the worker, for the educator. Looking at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u43	Thank you. Finish up, Mikola Eutychyevich. Turn off the microphone. Today, Mikola Eutychyyevich will have parliamentary hearings on the activities of banks and will be able to speak if you want. Please, from the Kirilenko and the Oilynik procedure, and let's move on to the meeting schedule.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u44	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. We've just received dozens of parliamentary requests and we do it practically every plenary day. But it is not always legal for deputies to receive answers to these questions. For example, on March 5, the Supreme Council voted in favour of my request to Prime Minister Yanukovitch for the purpose and conditions of signing the declaration, announced on February 23, Moscow by President Kuchma on behalf of Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. In this question, I asked 11 specific questions without publicity, but the exact questions I tried to get from the Prime Minister. The request was voted on March 5th, today is April 2nd. There is no indication of an answer. I see that this is a direct violation of the law and there is direct disrespect for the Supreme Council. So I think you should take this matter under personal control as Head of the Supreme Council, or you can do that. Today we voted a repeat request to Prime Minister Yanukovic on this issue. And I hope to get an answer. And the lack of an answer tells me, by the way, that the President and the government are not coordinating foreign policy, and at the initiative of the President, the government has nothing to say to give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u45	Thank you. Peter Olinick. I'm asking you to bet in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u46	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow MPs. Yesterday, district television journalist Angelina Lavrinović announced that she was officially taking off her authorship for a story in news about the holding of the general Ukrainian forum "Our Ukraine", which took place on March 29th in Kiev. The story was censored and greatly distorted. Lavrinovich noted that the plot's actions were cut out whole parts and added comments, she also added that the authorship of the material should be attributed to the famous SDPI(s) Human Major, who edited this story.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u47	Please, that's not the point. Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues! I'm asking, let's talk about our session, and that's possible when there are statements and presentations, in different ways you can talk. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, a special report of the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner "State of Respect and Protection of the Rights of Ukrainian Citizens abroad" is presented to your attention today. To address this issue are invited and present members of the government, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mallarenko Vasil Timfiyovich, the head of the Constitutional Court, Selivon Mikola Fedosovich, representatives of the diplomatic corps of international organizations credited in Kiev, as well as public organizations, scientists. Dear colleagues! All of you have received a special report from the Commissioner for Human Rights. This is a solid 20-page book with concrete conclusions and proposals for improving Ukrainian legislation and bringing it to international standards to safeguard Ukrainian citizens' rights. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for a hearing of the Authorized Report. We will follow the precedent as it was done in the previous year. In 30 minutes, the Commissioner's report and within 15 minutes, the answers to questions are written and directly from you. The Rules do not provide for discussion of the Authorized Report. So we work in 45 minutes: 30 minutes -- report, 15 minutes -- answers to questions. Is there no objection? I invite you to the Court of Commissioner for Human Rights Nina Ivanovna Karpachov to present a special report. Please, Nina Ivanovna. If the questions are written, please prepare them now and pass them on to the presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear diplomats, representatives of the media! Respectable compatriots! The issue of migration of Ukrainian citizens abroad has recently become almost obsolete in Ukraine today. For several years now, the topic of Ukrainian workers does not come down from the newspapers and television screens, drawing the attention of the whole society. Millions of migrant workers from Ukraine, most of whom work in Russia, Western Europe and North America, are forcing the state to reawaken its role in protecting the rights and freedoms of its citizens. Unfortunately, most of our fellow countrymen are abroad in the status of illegal labour migrants and are among the most discriminated and unprotected category of foreigners. As a result, the number of appeals to the authorities of Ukraine is increasing from citizens in crisis situations abroad, asking for help and protection. Many such appeals also come to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Each address is a human pain, a lost hope of self-sustaining, of saving one's own dignity, and often of life itself. Therefore, the Human Rights Commissioner has decided to scrutinize the problems of being Ukrainian citizens abroad in order to respect and protect their rights and freedoms. The purpose of this study, which you all received in the form of a special report by the Commissioner for Human Rights, is to comprehensively analyse the problem in question, make recommendations and proposals that would help improve mechanisms for the protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights abroad, develop long-term government policies in the field of migration, taking into account the prospects for global development of the interests of the Ukrainian State and its citizens. A special report has been prepared. This is a monitoring that systematically analyzes the problem of labour migration at international, national and regional levels. In the preparation of the report, the materials of the Human Rights Commissioner himself and information provided by ministries, departments, departments, diplomatic institutions of Ukraine abroad, institutes of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, district government administrations, banks, and diplomatic representations of foreign countries accredited in Ukraine were used. In the context of the study, questions arose as to the extent of labour migration from Ukraine. In Ukrainian official and unofficial sources, the total number of migrant workers from Ukraine ranges from 2 million to 7 million. I will note that official data applies only to persons who engage in employment abroad on legal grounds. Yes, according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in 2002, more than 20,000 Ukrainian citizens worked abroad, mainly in Greece, Cyprus, Liberia, and the United Kingdom. During the same period, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, some 30,000 people were in consular custody abroad for the purpose of employment. According to expert estimates by the Embassy of Ukraine, only in the Russian Federation, only one country temporarily employs about 1 million Ukrainian citizens. And in seasonal peaks, this is 3 million people, the vast majority of whom work illegally. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, there are about 300,000 Ukrainians working in Poland, that's 2000 data, that's 200,000 in Italy. According to expert estimates that occurred on a recent visit by the Head of the Supreme Council to Italy, this figure now stands at half a million. In the Czech Republic about 200,000, in Portugal 150,000, in Spain up to 100,000, in Turkey 35,000, in the United States 20,000. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, more than 2 million Ukrainian citizens are illegally employed abroad. According to the Human Rights Commissioner, the figure of at least 5 million Ukrainian citizens living outside the country each year is more real. And given that there are 28 million working - age citizens in Ukraine, at least 1 out of every 5 Ukrainians is economically active in another country. A natural question arises, honorable national MPs, which motivates our fellow countrymen to seek better fate abroad. Monitoring of the authorised person has shown that the underlying of the emigration processes is a whole set of reasons, which are clearly socio-economic reasons. A significant impact on labour migration from Ukraine differs from that of Ukrainian nationals in their homeland to that of potential migration. The idea of this ratio can be obtained by analysing economic indicators such as gross domestic product per capita and the average wage size in various areas of the national economy. According to the United Nations rating, Ukraine ranked 102th in the world in 2000 at GDP level. Substantially Giving Up Not Only to Western Countries Europe, as well as its closest neighbors. Overall, the average ratio between Ukraine’s GDP and the European Union’s countries in 2000 was sevenfold, and for Eastern European countries more than twice. Even more significant is the difference between Ukraine and the designated countries in the pay. According to the U.S. Statistics Committee, the Ukrainian industry’s salary for one hour in 2000 amounted to 3 bracelets of 26 copies or 0.6 in United States dollars. That's twice as much. More than in the Czech Republic, three less than in Poland, more than 27 times less than in Italy, 53 times less than in Germany. Word is, in practice, a migrant gets much less than a citizen in the same country, and even less if it works illegally. However, this sum will still go far beyond what it will earn in our country. The main factors that will motivate Ukrainians to leave the country are, of course, poverty and unemployment. As early as 2000, an annual human rights report drew the attention of all branches of government to the poverty problem in Ukraine, which in itself violates human rights and makes it impossible to realize other human rights. Despite expectations of economic downturns in recent years, poverty in Ukraine continues to be a threat. According to official figures alone, the country averages 27 percent. The most difficult situation in the Zakartat region, where the unemployment rate is 47 percent. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In Hmelnicki, in Hersonsky. Mikolaiivsky, Volinsky, Lugansk region, 32 to 37 percent. That's what it means. That, on average, 1 out of every 4 Ukrainians does not have enough funds to meet their minimum needs. I remember two years ago, when I visited a prison for deported women in Greece, I met Ukrainian citizens. In a frank conversation with me, one of them pointed out that if I had the opportunity to get a job in Ukraine every month, think about it, just 200 dollars, I would never go abroad to do a job. These words are echoed today by thousands of Ukrainian migrants around the world. Migration processes are affected by high levels of unemployment. According to the International Labour Organization, which was finally recognized by the government of Ukraine, the official unemployment rate in 2002 was eleven percent of the economically active population. And that's almost two and a half million citizens of our nation. According to recent reports, more than three million people are unemployed in Ukraine this year. According to the Human Rights Commissioner, the task of overcoming the negative effects of labour migration from Ukraine is to achieve a balanced economic policy designed primarily to reduce poverty and unemployment. An increase in the share of real income payments, a steady increase in the national economy and a gradual approximation of the income of Ukrainian citizens first to the level of neighbouring countries such as Russia, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, and in time to countries such as Greece, Portugal and Italy. The economy of these countries is absorbing much of the Ukrainian labour migrants. Migration processes from Ukraine have profound consequences. One of the most negative is the loss of highly skilled workforce and, above all, scientific personnel. This topic is not new to Ukrainian society, but in the light of the issue that has been raised, it is particularly important. According to expert estimates, one professional with higher education is estimated at about $20,000. This means that each arrived skilled migrant worker enriches the country of his new residence in this amount, making the country of his origin poor by the same amount. According to the U.S. State Department, from 1997 to 2001, nearly ninety thousand Ukrainian citizens with higher education were officially emigrated abroad, and nearly one hundred and twenty - eight thousand with unfinished higher and secondary education. Over the past ten years, 574 doctors of science and 907 candidates of science have emigrated abroad, and a third of them are prospective professionals under 40 years of age. The Special Report of the Authorized Human Rights lists a strong number of expert evaluations that indicate that due to the departure of scientific and highly qualified specialists, Ukraine’s losses amount to more than $1 billion a year. At the same time, the chronic underfunding of science in Ukraine actually contributes to the well - intentioned policies of developed countries by involving a highly skilled workforce. This is how special programs are designed and operated, flexible migration policies and visa policies for such migrants are implemented. It is sad to realize that in recent years, Ukraine, by providing intellectual assistance to virtually all the developed countries of the world, has itself faced the challenge of preserving its human and intellectual potential, since up to 30 percent of Ukrainian scientists, I place your weight on this, honourable Members, up to 30 percent of Ukrainian scientists are working for the economy of foreign countries today. Labour migration also has a devastating impact on the demographic situation in Ukraine. In the vast majority of countries around the world, especially those who have developed, there is a natural decline in the population as a result of its steady ageing. Experts estimate that in 2050, Italy, for example, will decrease from 57 million to 41 million. Great Britain, from 59 million to 56 million. Moreover, in 2050 the proportion of the elderly in the world’s most developed countries is expected to be 33 percent. Experts estimate that the United Nations Organization of Demographics will need 135 million immigrants in the next 25 years to maintain the current relationship between the working population and pensioners, as well as to provide sufficient labour for the European Union. The demographic situation in Ukraine differs considerably from that of other countries, if traditional labour suppliers such as the Philippines, Mexico, India see a stable population growth and migration losses do not have a major impact on the demographic situation, Ukraine has been experiencing a steady process of steady decline as a result of a sharp reduction in birth rates and mortality since 1993. Ukrainian scientists predict that in 2026 the population of Ukraine will fall to 42 million. And an increase in migration from Ukraine will mean that the population of Ukraine will be reduced at an ever-increasing rate, especially in view of the trend towards an increase in the number of migrant workers from Ukraine who remain forever in the countries where they went to earn money. That is why, according to the Commissioner for Human Rights, it is essential to develop a concept of Ukrainian migration policy, which should take into account the processes involved in moving abroad for the purpose of employing Ukrainian citizens and entering Ukraine for migrant workers from other parts of the world. It must be said that in addition to negative labour migration, there are some positive effects. First of all, the main one is that significant financial flows are being diverted to Ukraine because most of the labour migrants' money is being transferred to their homeland through bank transfers, through the export of the currency directly by natural persons. According to the International Monetary Fund, in just one of the last years, the world’s wages in the countries of Eastern Europe, Asia, Africa, the Middle East, Latin America and the Caribbean amounted to $65 billion. And given the costs transferred to the countries in question by unofficial channels, this amount is more than $100 billion. There are no official accounts in Ukraine. Thus, it is extremely difficult to determine the amount of earnings imported into Ukraine each year. However, according to a study conducted jointly by the Ministry of Labour and the Ternopil district government from the employees of this region, there is only one region that receives about $100 million a year, an average of $4-6 thousand per person per year. According to individual expert estimates, Ukrainians who have gone abroad earn more than $2 billion a month or about $400 million per month. Most of this amount, we think, is going back to Ukraine. Undoubtedly, this brings concrete income not only to the families of these Ukrainian workers but also to the State as a whole. This factor, of course, also affects poverty reduction, increases the capacity of the internal market, which has a positive impact on the economic situation in the country, particularly on the development of production. After returning from abroad, Ukrainian citizens spend part of their money on opening their own business, providing jobs for themselves, their own family, and creating jobs for others. In studying the world’s experience in solving labour migrants’ problems, the Human Rights Commissioner concluded that, in order to facilitate the delivery of Ukrainian citizens’ foreign funds to Ukraine, the State should assume the function of creating favourable conditions for remittances by reducing the payment of bank services. The experience of Mexico is very revealing in this direction. According to the Authorized Money Transfers, migrant workers should be accounted for with a view to taking them into account in the incomes of families and determining the minimum income in the State. This can, of course, be done only through active cooperation with the regions. Respectable national MPs, migrant workers abroad, can be divided into several categories. The most protected are those Ukrainian citizens who are permanently or temporarily legally established in the territory of a foreign State and have the appropriate employment permit. These Ukrainian citizens are employed on the basis of bilateral contracts and employment agreements concluded by Ukraine with Russia, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Viet Nam, Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, as well as Ukrainian citizens who are employed by intermediaries in countries such as the United States, Germany, Libya, Japan, Turkey, Iran and before the outbreak of Iraq's military activities, where our oil engineers worked. In addition, a noted part of Ukrainian citizens have passed the status of "legally employed" in countries such as Greece and Portugal since the adoption of national legislation in these countries, which has enabled them to establish employment on the legal basis of a large number of illegal labour migrants, particularly from Ukraine, and is expected to adopt similar legislation in Italy as soon as possible. According to the Commissioner’s analysis, such persons have the opportunity to maximize their rights to proper conditions and decent remuneration for work, the right to medical care, since they usually contract in writing with the employer and are protected by the valid labour legislation of the country of residence. In the event of a violation of their rights, they are able to use the entire arsenal of legal remedies, including appeals to the court. At the same time, this category of citizens of Ukraine also poses significant problems with their rights. In particular, this category includes young women who go to Turkey and Japan to work in the entertainment industry in nightclubs, restaurants, while having -- I emphasize -- an official bilateral contract with the employer. The proportion of a 25-year-old Ukrainian citizen from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea who flew to Japan last September with a contract with a middle firm from Dniprožinska. During a single telephone conversation with her mother, she reported on the excruciating, slave - labor conditions and abuse of the employer. On July 10, 2002, a woman was found hanged. The official cause of death is suicide. Obviously, the Japanese police didn't even do forensics. The body was cremated, and two young children were left at home for whom the woman had to go to the end of the world. Following the mother’s request, the Human Rights Commissioner is being led. The most irregular situation in illegal migrants among Ukrainian workers is, unfortunately, the majority. The very fact that these people are in the territory of another State is already the reason for their expulsion, and illegal employment is viewed as a double violation of the law. Therefore, they tend to avoid contact with Ukrainian consular services abroad, fearing persecution for violating the legislation of the country of residence, which greatly complicates the possibility of granting them diplomatic and legal protection. A human rights officer believes that the very fact that Ukrainian migrants are being violated abroad of the legislation of the country of residence, I pay attention to this by the honourable ambassadors who are accredited in Ukraine, the very fact that Ukrainian labour migrants are being violated abroad of the legislation of the country of residence cannot bring about the deprivation of their human rights in general. By the way, as Commissioner, I demand that illegal migrants in Ukraine be treated in the same way as human. The working conditions of Ukrainian migrant workers abroad do not meet common standards. Workdays last 10 hours and sometimes 18 hours. A typical violation of the rights of migrant workers is the failure to comply with the payment agreement. Thus, the Authorized Individual Cases, when Ukrainian citizens worked for a time with a private owner and sometimes for years, did not receive a single copy, namely, that they were transferred to the police for deportation. It should be noted that increasing the extent of illegal emigration is being done by, by the way, the foreign employers themselves, who are often interested in using the illegal labour force itself, which allows them to save considerable savings on production costs without complying with legally established human rights standards. The Authorized Human Rights Commissioner believes that further bilateral employment and social protection agreements, which ensure minimum social standards for migrant workers and guarantee respect for their rights, should be an important policy. The relevant authorities, especially the Minpraci and the Ministry of Foreign Rights, are to carry out continuous monitoring of valid bilateral and multilateral agreements with a view to assessing their effectiveness, as many of them are virtually ineffective. In addition, the existing, universal and regional mechanisms for the protection of the rights of migrant workers need to be used more effectively, particularly to strengthen the preparatory process for the ratification of the European Convention on the Status of Migrant Workers in 1977. As early as December 2001, an appropriate submission was introduced to the Cabinet of Ministers. I believe that joining this convention will make it possible to significantly strengthen the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens working abroad, particularly members of this convention, including France, Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and Turkey, as well as prospects in the four countries that signed the convention in Belgium, Germany, Greece and Luxembourg. The problem in the field of labour migration of Ukrainian citizens abroad is the work of various intermediation structures. According to unofficial data, about 85 of all Ukrainian labour migrants go abroad to travel visas, mostly short-term visas, with many of our fellow Ukrainians using questionable middle-country companies, or tourist agencies, who often use the form of tourism services to actually recruit Ukrainian citizens abroad, mostly illegal. According to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy last year, there were 749 operators operating in Ukraine who had licenses for the introduction of economic activities from overseas. A particular problem that is disturbed in a special report that is extremely painful for our society is the respect of the rights of Ukrainian sailors. They're working on ships under a foreign flag. This burning problem, by the way, was dedicated to the entire chapter in the first annual report commissioned by human rights. However, an authorized monitoring has shown that there has been no improvement. As a result of the country’s economic crisis, as well as for other reasons, the shipping sector is virtually completely destroyed in Ukraine. Yes, at the state shipping company Black Sea Sailing out of 260 dry vessels with a total tonnage of three million tons and more than 30 passenger vessels, there are only seven vessels with a tonnage of 50,000 tons! More than 20,000 skilled seamen have lost their jobs! The situation is no better in other Ukrainian shipping companies that have lost much of our nation’s fleet. According to expert estimates, more than 70,000 Ukrainian sailors today do not have a steady job in their profession. [[Just think about it, distinguished national MPs!]] That's why our unemployed sailors are trying to get to work on a ship of foreign owners at all costs. This is used cynically by a number of brokering agencies that hire sailors. The activities of such agencies in our Ukraine are not regulated by valid legislation. There isn't even a definition of "cruing," it doesn't take into account the specifics of hiring sailors on foreign ships. A set of problems called, as well as a lack of State control in these matters -- hiring sailors on foreign shipowners -- causes many of them to find themselves in pitiful, slave conditions. In fact, without any social protection. In view of the acute nature of this problem, the authorized one considers it necessary to improve national legislation on business activities that facilitate employment abroad for Ukrainian citizens and especially seamen. This requires speeding up the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian Business Act, which facilitates the employment of citizens abroad, as well as ratifying the 179th Convention on the Employment and Employment of Seafarers, which provides for the most effective and comprehensive international standards for the protection of the rights of seafarers. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't describe a number of problems in such a brief statement. You have a special report in your hands that the Commissioner has made for this purpose, and you will find the problems of the most vulnerable category of our fellow countrymen, to whom persons deprived of their will belong. By the way, abroad today there are 10,000 people who are arrested and 2,500 who are being punished for court sentences. You will find a very acute and painful problem of the rights of our citizens who are dying outside our country. Not the territories of 69 foreign nations in recent years have 2424 Ukrainian citizens died or died. In closing my speech, I would like to point out that the problem of maintaining and protecting Ukrainian citizens abroad, as an integral part of the realization of fundamental human rights and freedoms in Ukraine, attracts the growing attention of Ukrainian society and requires a targeted state policy in this area. Despite the positive steps that have been taken in this direction, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the State Committee on the Protection of the State Border, the situation in the area of migration from Ukraine continues to be critical and can be seen as a matter of national security. And then it requires additional, operational, comprehensive measures by the state. In closing, I would like to thank all those who have supported the Commissioner in the exercise of the monitoring exercise presented to the Ukrainian People's Deputies and to express the hope that the conclusions and proposals proposed in the Special Report of the Commissioner for Human Rights will contribute to this. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, the report is closed. Question, please, let's sign up. 15 minutes as we agreed. Please give us a list of the names of the national MPs on the board. Oleg Belarus is a faction of Julia Timoshenko's block.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u50	Oleg Belarus, please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u51	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u52	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the political party of the Ukrainian National Assembly. Dear reporter. First of all, I would like to ask two questions that usually arise after this report. That is to say, what is the system of protection for people who are abroad, i.e. the systematic work done, the calculation, the number of people who work there and the treatment in which the situation took place, because there is no need for any special things, is being eaten in the capital cities of Paris, Madrid, and every Sunday there are five Ukrainians, fifteen thousand in designated places and can be conducted, all illegals there are being gathered, and there are barely a register of these people and a list of their problems. And the second. Of course, you realize that the situation in Ukraine is the result of today’s situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u53	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u54	I don't know if you share that opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u55	Unfortunately, there is no systematic monitoring of our citizens' rights abroad and their numbers in general. You were in Parliament yesterday looking at a bill for the creation of a migration service in Ukraine. So here, honourable national MPs, this important bill, but it only touches one element, the issue of internal immigration to Ukraine, and it doesn't touch our citizens' issues outside Ukraine at all. So in my opinion, the creation of such an organ and the determination by Parliament of a state policy in this direction should necessarily take into account two components — immigration and immigration — and then be able to systematically influence these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u56	Boris Bespaly, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u57	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Nina Ivanovno! Let me begin by thanking you for the great work you have done during these five years and asking such questions. It is well known and in your report that you have done a lot of targeted protection for individuals, participated in the development of conventions, but this is the office of the Authorized Supreme Council for Human Rights. And in my opinion, what would you think, based on your experience, would you be able to do to influence legislation? Because there is no influence on the legislation of the Authorized Supreme Council on human matters. And the second. Your report did not properly reflect, in my view, yet another very important question that many people are complaining about, namely, serious pressure during the pretrial investigation of humans. I realize that there's procedural legislation that seems to regulate this issue, but practice is that this pressure, it's pretty serious on people. And what do you see here is the role of the Human Rights Commissioner in protecting the rights of these people?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the Commissioner's election will take place in May. And no one takes away from me all the necessary measures that I've taken and I'm going to use for the elections that are to take place in Parliament of the State. This is the first time. Secondly, regarding the impact of the Authorized Human Rights on the legislative process in the state. Under the Constitution, the Authorized does not have the right to legislative initiative; it is solely the prerogative of the national deputies. For five years, however, the Commissioner has been constantly cooperating with the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it is through parliamentary committees that the process of enacting laws and ratifying a series of conventions is affected. I think I'll stop at this in more detail in two weeks when I present my annual periodic report in this room. What is involved in the pretrial investigation. I understand, Commissioner Boris Bespali, what do you mean, of course, the investigation outside Ukraine, and not in Ukraine, I understand correctly about our migrants there? The problem is extremely painful, since, in fact, mediators, particularly lawyers in the vast majority, are taking considerable money from our migrants, without actually providing adequate legal assistance. Let me give you just one example. One of the Italian lawyers who specializes in Ukrainian migrant workers from 30,000, who he was to hand over to a Ukrainian citizen after the trial, took 25,000 euros, and left 5,000 to the Ukrainians. That's a very nice thing to do. That's why I'm proposing to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, in particular with our lawyers, particularly with the Injury of the Lord. Dmitry will address this issue systematically and, above all, involve Ukrainian lawyers who have the experience of protecting our Ukrainians abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u59	Ivan Plush, Democratic Initiatives MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Nina Ivanovna! My question was addressed to both you and Vasil Timothy Malyarenka, but what he came out of, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You should listen to them. I think they'll give it to him. The question is. You've been doing, as your information suggests, systematic work to uphold the rights of our people who have gone abroad. I wanted to ask you how to protect people who didn't go abroad. I'll read you a letter. 11 people: Prussian Petrovna, and another 10 with her, young people, she was 54th year of birth, was brought to trial last year for not paying the salary for four years -- 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000. The court considered and decided to pay this debt and obliged the executive authority to do so. For more than six months, they have walked the thresholds, not accepted or paid for. It's about protecting their rights, and I wanted to ask you to give it to me how to answer them. And especially Mallarenko Vasil Timothyovich, would like to ask, how do the executing bodies of our bodies carry out their judicial decisions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u61	Ivan Stepanovich, thank you very much. Your question is extremely important. Because I want to point out that this monitoring study has just been done to look at this problem in a comprehensive way. This problem exists inside -- you're right to say -- our state, or there are consequences in those countries where our migrants go. Of course, the monitoring that I did was done with great respect and love for the Ukrainian people, since the part that goes out is returned to the vast majority, and it is the families that remain here: children and women in Ukraine. And it is for the sake of their families that they are forced to go abroad today. Next. It's about payouts. It's a systemic disease. When you were the Speaker of Parliament, that was the problem. Now we have another speaker. I think that in order for us not to do this in the near future, we have to systematically change the situation in the state, because in Ukraine today, the economic crisis that does not allow this issue to be fully resolved. You're saying that ordinary citizens can't make court decisions today. This is absolutely so, and I get a number of references from our citizens, and every day I deal with these painful issues of pensions, wages. Even today, however, John Stepanovich, the honourable, has come to the point that court rulings on non-payments of salaries -- court decisions on judges themselves -- are not being made in our state either. Let me give you an example. I was approached by 50 judges at the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region for failure to execute court decisions on their failure to pay their salaries. What's that? We need to work together to find the answer to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u62	Nina Ivanovna, in writing, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u63	They're in writing. "In the report you brought -- this is Deputy Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor -- in the report you brought statistics on the subjects of the management of so-called intermediaries who have licenses to employ citizens abroad. Why so many? They don't do anything but take our girls abroad. They don't do anything. They don't do anything. We men must cut them off as quickly as possible. " [[three points]] I'm sorry. "Protect our citizens and withdraw such licenses. How do you feel about that?" I mean, the rite of circumcision the Authorized doesn't work. And as far as the painful problem you've raised is concerned, the number of mediators in Ukraine today is fantastic. And so these are the tourist companies that employ a few -- up to a dozen citizens officially, and above all, they're doing unofficial employment, of course, illegally, of our citizens, Ukraine, abroad, with certain profits. I've given examples, by the way, of sailors, of these mediocre structures, called kruing. So it seems to me that the issue of state-of-the-art importance and the bill that is now in Parliament, precisely after these operators, should be adopted as soon as possible. On the other hand, it's about getting our girls out of the country. You know, at the time we passed the law with you, I mean the parliamentarians passed the law that established criminal responsibility for trafficking in human beings, and in particular children and women. This law now works in Ukraine. And I can say that to date, from 1998 to criminal responsibility for human trafficking and, above all, for exports abroad, 315 of these crimes have been found today. And 250 people were called to account, by the way, and foreigners, including. Most of our crimes today are in Crimea, Dnipropetrovsk, Lugansk, Donetsk and other areas of Ukraine. It seems to me that the ratification by the Ukrainian Parliament of such a convention, which, by the way, has been proposed to you in the conclusions and proposals of the Authorized Human Rights Committee such as the 2000 UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and the protocols before it on warning and halting trafficking in human beings and smuggling of migrants should be as soon as possible ratified. In addition, I made a contribution to the government two years ago. She finally opened a government project and found that the government in the project had taken this issue into account and was soon ready to ratify the UN convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u64	Is there more to the letter? We agreed that one was in writing and one was in writing. Please calm down. We immediately asked the questions that had been written, and we did not write. One question and then another.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u65	She's asleep now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u66	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u67	It's your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u68	Nina Ivanovna! I'm going to say in this room what people's deputies rarely say. I want to thank you for the clarity and string created, the efficient system of the Authorized Device. I would like to thank you, on behalf of my hometown girl Kseniya Nadravov, who, with the help of the Authority of the Supreme Council, has come back personally to Ukraine after years of infidelity in the family circle. I have a question about labour migration. I think colleagues, the national MPs will agree with me, you can't sit back and watch TV reports from western Ukraine when little children of orphans in live TV parents are asked to come home. Please tell us how the authorities in the regions react and understand the problem of moving citizens abroad in search of work. This is a very important question for them, especially for border areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. I would like to say that in the course of this monitoring, at my initiative, we tried to reach out to the heads of the district administrations and ask them to give their own perspective on this problem. And frankly, almost all of Ukraine's regions except for two, they, by the way, listed here in this report gave this information more or less thorough, but did not give information and expressed their position, the whole chapter of this report, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, about the problem -- the eyes of the regions, this problem. And that's very important. I hope, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we will send this report to at least the heads of the district councils, through the Supreme Council, we can also do so with the support of the Prime Minister, and I will address, as Victor Yushchenko did in due course, the task of the Prime Minister of Ukraine should be to all heads of the district administrations on the monitoring of these issues and to comply with the proposals made in the special report of the human rights commissioner, taking into account the regional aspects themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u70	Ivan Ivy. Dear colleagues, I'll be sitting in the hall one day, and they'll ask me a question, so understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Nina Ivanovna, I have come to realize with certainty that we have to take on a speaker in the State to carry on, not an executive service that is subordinated to Minust and Minust to the executive authority? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u72	Ivan Stepanovich, unfortunately, I meant that we should use even the authority of the speaker of parliament and the entire parliament to force the executive service to control the execution of court decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u73	Letters, please. That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u74	Heads, excuse me, honourable deputies, excuse me, Ivan Stepanovich, Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u75	Letter, letter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u76	Yes, Georgi Volodymyrovich Buiko: "Thank you for the thorough and honest report. I can ask you to read, it's hard for me to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u77	Buiko is a national MP, please microphone. Buyko, national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u78	Thank you. Buiko Georgi Volodymyrovich, Communist faction, Donetsk district. Dear Nina Ivanovna! Thank you for the thorough and honest report on Ukraine’s problem of labour emigration. Unfortunately, this tragedy applies to both Donbas and, above all, to mining cities such as Gorlovka, Torres, Shakhtarsk, Snow and others, from where tens of thousands of miners and their families are begging abroad, not only voluntarily but eventually selling them. This is especially true of women and children. Our committee on the fight against organized crime and corruption, after hearings have been held and by your participation, has found the actions of the executive organs in this regard unsatisfactory. So my question. What do you think we need to do to counter the trafficking of our people?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. What's important is the question of poverty and unemployment within our country. This is a question of a systemic crisis that we have to deal with in a complex way, regardless of whether it belongs to the left or the right factions. That's the main question that we have to solve here. It's creating jobs in Ukraine. It's raising its own economy right here on Ukrainian soil. What must we do to prevent the trade of our women? I believe that first of all the ratification of a series of their conventions that I have already stressed today, and most importantly, to appreciate our women and to create conditions for them so that they are not really driven by fate, our Ukrainian destiny.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u80	Thank you, Nina Ivanovna, time is up. Please sit down. Let us thank you for the report, dear colleagues authorized by human rights. The Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities has prepared a draft decision that has been handed down to you. Tomorrow we should make a decision on this matter, that is, a decision. I'd like to ask, honourable national MPs, if you have any comments, suggestions, additions, clarifications, to submit them to the committee today so that the committee can finalize the draft ruling. Olga Hinzburg, with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u81	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I just have to say this, that's a complicated question that we're dealing with today: getting citizenship. Being in the district, and such a difficult problem is, I also want Nina Ivanovna to know that obtaining citizenship by our citizens today, which is linked to the Russian Embassy, is of great concern today. For many, almost a year now, people have been sifting under the Russian embassies to get these help in order to obtain citizenship. They can't get any benefits not for children, not for themselves, not for subsidies there. And we've raised this issue in Russia in front of a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it's still pending today. And I very much ask you, if you are able to raise this question at the level of appropriate structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before we announce a recess, I'd like to consult you, because the next item is personnel. This is the Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments, which has proposed this procedure. For today's head of the State Property Fund, 10 minutes to go, 10 minutes to go, 10 minutes to go, 10 minutes to go, 10 minutes to go. For the head of the State Property Fund, the same is true. The report is five minutes. And then we've got 40 minutes to discuss this together, so we have to make arrangements for factions to do this or we're just going to be in arbitrary mode. That's the first one. The other one. But the special control commission offers a slightly different structure. This is for Alexander Bondaru's 30 minutes report, the answer to 30 questions, and then to the contrary, 15 minutes for the candidate and 30 minutes for the answers. In fact, time is not meant for performances. What would you say if you were to maintain your first position or your second position? The first one, yes. Please, Yuri Lucenko. In order for the speakers to prepare
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! I have an offer, perhaps a compromise, to leave the first option, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, but the answers are still 30 minutes, as a minimum, to the challenger. You realize that in ten minutes, even one faction will fail to ask the applicant for such a position. So, at least, Mr. Chetchet's answer should be 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u84	Are there any other suggestions? None. We'll take that as a yes. There's a 30-minute pass, up to 12 hours 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u85	We continue our fruitful work. The issue of consenting to the release of Alexander Bondar from office of head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine and the appointment of Mikli Chechtov as head of the State Fund of Ukraine is under review. According to the schedule we agreed with you, dear colleagues, we've already agreed on the deadline, so we're going to have to work until 2:30. I would ask your permission to be able to address this issue, to complete the discussion. I invite the head of the State Property Fund, Alexander Bondar, to the rostrum. As we agreed, the 10th performance, the 10th question. Dear colleagues! We agreed because we don't have enough time. I'll tell you more. 10 minutes and 30 minutes for the candidate to answer the question as we agreed. And then 40 minutes to talk to all the faction leaders. Please, Valentina Petrovna. But we don't have time, we don't have time. That's what we have to do by 14. 30, and there's parliamentary hearings. Before the break, we considered the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u86	Vladimir Mikhailovich, 10 minutes when the State Property Fund report was in November 2002, reported Bondar for 5 minutes and answered questions for 5 minutes. Such information cannot be done so quickly. So let him speak and answer our questions as members of the Supreme Council and Alexander Mikolaiovich and Mikhail Vasilovich. I didn't take the commission's authority, it's an economic policy issue, but let's listen to the Special Monitoring Commission's decision. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u87	Valentina Petrovna, I informed the national deputies before the break, and then in the session hall they arranged a procedure. We've made up our minds. Today, it's not about the State Property Fund report -- we can put it separately -- it's about getting out of office. And in this regard, we agreed on such a procedure, such a rule of procedure. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In view of the limitations on my speech, I will give a brief account of the work I have done in directing the Ukrainian State Property Fund for five years. I would like to do that in order to remove the extra questions that came to me and arose during the time I applied for my release and that period. Secondly, I have been privatizing since 1992. I have something to report and tell you, so I'm just going to stop at the most fundamental moments. The first principle, I think, is that the moment at parliamentary hearings is the amount of revenue coming from privatization throughout the years of privatization. I want to explain where this number came from and what the responsibility is for this fund and for me personally. Indeed, in 10 years of privatisation, the money came from the sale of government property of 7.5 billion dollars. Of these, 6.5 billion dollars came from the sale of government property. From 1998 to 2002, I received 6 billion dollars. From 6.5. In addition, one and a half billion dollars came from the sale of small - scale privatization objects to local budgets. I would like to remind you that I, too, took part in a small privatization in Ukraine as the deputy head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund. In addition, 10.9 billion dollars of property -- 10 billion dollars of property -- and 0.9 billion dollars of compensation. The Certificate Privatization Act has been adopted by deputies, the fund has implemented them and has not been able to implement them. And so I want to remind you that the Supreme Council has three times passed the deadline for the completion of certification privatization, and three times as head of the fund, I have denied these transfers. Next. According to the Special Law on Privatization in the APC of 2.9 billion. was given free of charge to the sellers. The Law on Privatization in the APC was also passed by the Supreme Council, you know who was the initiator of this law, and the State Property Fund was implementing this law. Because of the lease with the ransom. This was free of charge at the expense of the income of rental companies, and the property was transferred to $2 billion. It was the rent law in the new edition that prohibited this free transfer. I passed the Rent Act through the State Property Fund through the Supreme Council in 1995. Before that, it was free of charge and it was worth 2 billion. was devoted to the labour force. In total, $23.2 billion has been implemented. Is it a lot or not? I think we should compare the coming from privatization, not from coming to other countries, but from the budget of Ukraine. If we have 10 billion dollars in Ukraine's budget and the privatisation revenue was going to be 1 billion dollars. Every year, I think this figure is higher in order than in these civilized countries. Because there is one firm in the West, its budget is just as much as that of Ukraine. If we have companies making profits of 10 billion grand, how can we sell the fund for 1 billion dollars? Is it property? Where is this property to be taken, and where can customers be found? Now it's different. Unfortunately, we still have no statistics on privatization legislation. What I mean. The statistical report submitted by the Ministry annually includes enterprises that have been transformed into open stock companies. For example, I can tell you that we have the status quo privatized, the Ukrnaftagaz privatized, and all the other shareholders. But we didn't even start selling them when we report for coming, we report only on the shares of stock companies that we sold. And most of the objects in general remain state property for many years and will not be available. So I would like to make estimates of privatization in ten years at a time when I was head of the State Property Fund, but objective assessments have been made and are in line with reality. I'm going to show you a very showing table that we distributed to MPs during the parliamentary hearings by the number of privatized objects per year, and by the time the funds come from privatization. It may not be very good to see, but it shows in green the number of objects that have been privatized each year. Starting in 92 to 95 years, it was a peak -- it was a green one. Then the decline went down, and by 2002, very few objects were sold. It's this curve. Now, from the privatization of the funds, the situation is the other way around. So this went down to zero by 98, and this went up, and this red one shows how much money was coming. I want to say that since 98, the fund has started selling single objects, with a considerable amount of money for Ukraine, I mean. And to say that the fund's okay, I can't, I'm not happy with the foundation's work, I've always talked about it. And in 1992 coming from privatization, I have documents when I wrote to the then Prime Minister at the Cabinet of Ministers that the privatization task of 5 billion 9 tenths of the year 2002 was impossible. Because it is up to Kabmin and the President to decide not to sell these objects. And you know the President said that those decisions were right. Other objects in Ukraine have no such importance. And we couldn't do that in any way, by the way, because I'm now responsible for not doing the budget. Now the very important question is whether or not privatization has taken place. Of course, privatization was not normal in Ukraine. And the last example of the Nicolel Ferrospoline plant proves that. I will not say who is right or who is to blame. But what is happening around this object is a shame for everyone, for all the participants. But why is this happening? In fact, the decision is made by a large number of structures, ministries, and authorities, and by one State Property Fund. I can now tell you which ministries, who took decisions at the Kabmin level when the conditions for the privatization of the Nicolepoli Ferrospoline plant were approved. But I think it's a waste. The Order of the Maintenance Fund, which is challenged in court, was executed on the basis of a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Have you heard any words about the Nicole Ferrospoline ferrospoline from other structures besides the State Property Fund? Did the Antimonopoly Committee say anything about this? He could say who was worthy to participate in antimonopoly legislation or not? I say this because we have a paradoxical situation where decisions are made in other organs, and responsibility lies with the fund. And I have this responsibility to you today, the deputies, openly and openly bear in mind that the Cabinet of Ministers ruling on my release came out on March 7th, I couldn't help but count on it, there was an appeal to the President about my release, I can read out the formulation of this decision, and accordingly I, as a person responsible for my further actions, have applied for my own request. I gave it to her voluntarily. I told the President frankly at the meeting that when the Cabinet of Ministers told me that they didn't trust me, they thought I should switch to another person, and I can't help but count on it, sit on it, work. So I made a completely objective decision. Then you make a decision -- you take this resignation, you approve the new head of the fund, it's all your political decisions that you have to make. I'm the only thing I'd like to say to you. I would very much like to make a decision about my resignation, first of all, not about myself, but about the State Property Fund and Ukrainian privatization. I thought that while I was in that position, I would simply be the object of criticism and accusations and would be the hostage of the fund and all the privatization. I didn't want to let that happen. I want the foundation to be strong, to be led by a strong figure who can state his position. which can resist the insistence and financial pressure of industrial groups, and the Cabinet of Ministers, if they're wrong, and other structures. And to really implement the Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Privatization Programme, and to make the Fund respect. I've worked in this structure for ten years, and I'm very concerned about his fate, and I'd like you to share with me this one, let's say, and the experience of the Fund and our Ukrainian privatization. Believe me, when privatization was marked, I was rewarded by the World Bank with "For Better Small Privatization Project in Eastern Europe," which means it's not as bad as we draw it here. And I'd like us to really objectively evaluate that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Alexander Bondar. On the board, please list the names of the National Deputies. Vadim Gurov is a member of the People's Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, distinguished rapporteur. For ten minutes, you kept saying: money, money, money, money, and as a plus-7.5 billion you got six billion when you were on the throne. I still believe that the privatization and work of the Holding Fund should not be determined by the amount of money you put in the treasury, we spent it, and that's it. The essence of the analysis is: What are those enterprises that are privatized doing now? The main objective is to get industry, agriculture and the population out of the gap. So you're going to answer such a simple question, specifically, privatization -- what did it give us? And the second question. You've put the foundation of metallurgy into the privatisation plan. And now, in a conversation with a future candidate, he says, "We don't know yet which scheme, I'm proposing four schemes. Maybe you have a plan to privatize Krudprom. And if he doesn't, I don't think he needs to be touched, he makes a profit, and let him work the way he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u91	I said only one aspect, the responsibility of the fund and the privatization of the money coming because I only had 10 minutes. Secondly, this was the main claim of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council at parliamentary hearings to me as to the head of the fund. On that basis, the Cabinet of Ministers appealed to the President about my resignation, which is why I explained the money. I believe that never money from privatization can be the only indicator of the foundation's work and me as its heads. I can report to you for those objects that have been sold by the fund since 1998, under my direction, I think no one will have any objection that this has been done successfully because I will now address those objects of the MPs who are present in the hall. The Illicha factory was sold to a labor group. The Mikolai Agricultural Plant, the Linos, the Odessa NPP, the Hersonian NPP, the Zaporozhye Car Plant, the Ocean Factory, are few examples to think that we had a successful privatisation, not my own private, but the privatization of the fund. But we don't talk about it very much, and the MPs who are in the room and who represent these businesses, they don't say much about it. It's about Rudprom. There are different approaches to privatization about Rudprom, and I think we need to talk about them in college and make decisions in college. But Rudprom has spent the third consecutive year planning to get the money from privatization. If a decision is not taken again this year, the next head of the fund will excuse you for failing to carry out the task of privatization as well as I did. You have to sell something, like Rudprom, and they put the third year in the plan, not the fund, but the Cabinet of Ministers in the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u92	Boris Rykov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u93	Rajkov, 200th District, Cherkasy, "Democratic Initiatives". Dear Alexander Nikolaevich, you have said that seven and a half billion have been budgeted since privatization, but I believe that the goal of privatization is not only to invest in the budget but also to attract investment in enterprises. Can you tell how much investment has been made in privatized enterprises? And what is the effectiveness of these investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u94	Thank you for a very good question. In fact, I couldn’t say that. The volume of investments that have already come into privatised sales contracts exceeds twice the amount of privatisation. And in the sales contracts that have not yet been completed, this sum is going to be 5 times that coming. And that, I think, is much more important than what came into the budget, and we ate it and we forgot it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u95	What is it? Dear colleagues, let's do it. Who's in charge, I'd like you to take a look and invite you from the balcony for security. Yes, please, National Deputy Petrenko, Communist faction. That's just the tip of the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u96	Thank you. Alexander Nikolaevich, you said there were serious violations of privatization. In the people, you know, privatization is called "admission." Instead of creating jobs, you heard Karpachov today told us what happened to us, it ruined Ukraine to the ground. Maybe those mistakes you called, so you can go back to reprivatizing a number of objects in order to actually restore justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u97	I totally agree with you. Where laws have been violated, where no sales contracts have been made, there is a need for reprivatisation. And that's what the fund does all the time. And every year, objects that returned to government property and were sold again, with more acceptable conditions for the State increasing. But one is the problem of reprivatization that we wanted to solve through the law that was passed in the Cabinet of Ministers. Where there was a certificate privatisation or a lease with a ransom, or the same privatisation procedure in the APC, there were no sales contracts, there was no way for the court to return the property of the objects to the State. That's what I'm going to do with them? That's what the Supreme Council needs to decide, because the problems are the most painful. You see, that's where the social problems you're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u98	Sergei Matvienkov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u99	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Alexander Nikolayevich! I have two questions for you. And before I ask you any questions, I'd like to make it clear. What was the primary thing for you, your desire and the statement you wrote, or the Cabinet of Ministers ruling that came out, and on the basis of which you wrote your statement? More clearly, please specify. That's question number one. Question two. As you can see, to date, the system of verification of investment projects, the obligations of those who have so far taken over by the participants in this process that exist and exist, is it sufficient for the fund to be able to manage all this process? And the last. Of course, I can't help but say. It's been a big deal over the past 10 years in your work. I think I'm going to express the opinion of many deputies that there's enough funds on my feet, and that's what you deserve, so to speak, from yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u100	There are no secrets from the application, no intrigue either. On Saturday, March 1st, the Cabinet of Ministers was scheduled to hold a meeting, and there was a draft decision to be prepared that warranted the President's release. I was told about this on Friday evening. And in order to avoid conflict and aggravate the situation, they offered to apply at their own request. I did it on my own free will, and it was in the determination of the Cabinet of Ministers that came out. I've always said it outspokenly, that was the basis for the statement. I felt that in the situation that had arisen, I should not resist, prove something, and sharpen the situation around the fund, which is not always self-accepting. I did it again, I say, just for the fund and privatization. There's a verification system, and we're doing it. I think it's okay here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u101	People's MP Mokchan. You don't? Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please turn on the microphone. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! I'll have a question, not about money, but that question. Why, then, when you had the time when you applied, did you not send all your deputies to the same retirement?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u102	I'll do it. I didn't understand the logic of the question. Well, I could do that, too, if I wanted to, because some of the points in the Cabinet's ruling were not about me, but about my deputies. But I felt that if the Cabinet of Ministers accepted that I should be personally responsible, I carried it. I'm not going to translate the blame in front of the Cabinet of Ministers. Wait. And if you're asking about the release of my deputy Grishan, I put too much time on him and there were completely different reasons, I would say, morally ethical even a plan because he contradicted himself to the entire collective fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u103	Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Eugene Jovtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u105	Eugene Yellow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u106	Thank you. In your speech, you've stopped short on the problem of Nicolel Ferrospoline, but I would still like to clarify that question. The point is that this factory is valued at the price of a mini-bike -- 20 million dollars, while all business experts are rated at least 50 million -- that is, the fund has discounted the estimate 25 times. And the terms of the competition are prescribed in such a way that there is one person in Ukraine who can win this competition, iterpipe, who is led by the son-in-law of President Kuchma Pinchuk. So it's actually a kingdom, not a privatization. And the second question is. You said you could quote the verdict, so they would like you to quote it. The Cabinet of Ministers for your release.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u107	I don't want to go into the details of the privatization of the Nicolel Ferrospoline plant and the tiredness of moral and ethical considerations, because this is the object that I'm most likely not going to make a decision about anymore and I don't want to judge. I said in general the situation around this object does not honor Ukraine in general, failing to evaluate all the participants in this process. I'm telling you again, I told you that in terms of privatization of the Nicolaus Ferrospoly plant, I took part in a commission that was composed of six other bodies, including local authorities and central authorities, and then those conditions were sent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was set up by all ministries and adopted at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u108	You'll go out and talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u109	I'm saying we need to look at this in a completely different context. There is a need to change the regulatory documents for the contests so that there are no such cases. And for that, there is a new privatization program submitted to the Supreme Council. Next, take a closer look at this object. And now I'm going to read out the ruling part: "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decides: 1. For the low level of organization of the implementation of Ukraine's laws, regulations and orders by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to acknowledge that Bondar O.M. remains unworthy. in the position of Head of the State Property Fund and Potter M.V. In office of the Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee. 2. Ask the President of Ukraine for the release of Bondar and Potter from positions. To be aware, the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Bondar, has applied for discharge at his own request." This is a March 6, 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. Now let's listen to Michael Chechchev, please. Click on Alexander Frost's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u111	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich and Mikhail Vasilovich! In respect of all participants in today’s action, however, we must be guided by basic logic. So far, the head of the holding fund is Bondar, he's reporting. If we decide to release him tomorrow, we will consider Chechtov's candidacy and appoint him. And you can't do that, you've never done that before. Despite the President's application, I don't think we can do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! Here I hear the voices right and suddenly we see. At the Conciliation Council on Monday, we agreed on a procedure for dealing with this issue, and there were also voices called "Right." 12 hours ago, here we were talking to you again and saying, "That's right." Yes, if we agreed, let's show a sequence, not a principle, as some show when they're taking it off. Is that right, too, or is it not? Let's always show this principle, I say this to Alexander Mikolayovich. Perhaps earlier this principle had to be exercised, and perhaps today there would be no such problems of removal from office, no applications for dismissal. Let's finally talk, we agreed that we were going to talk about this, and tomorrow we're going to vote. We don't vote, we don't make the right decision. Everything's gonna stay where it is. I understand, but before we agreed on Monday, we wouldn't have such a colossal conflict. But we've already agreed, so let's work. We're not listening to the report. I'd like you, dear colleagues, to read what we're looking at, please. We're talking about giving consent for Bondar's release from office as head of the State Property Fund. And we're not listening to Bondar's report, we're listening to the State Property Fund. I think it's two big differences, although sometimes they match these positions. We've already agreed, and now we're starting to find some nuances. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u114	I'm sorry, my dear colleague! You yourself have offered 30 minutes to consider this matter, and we have made a deal with you. But no, before the break, Alexander Alexander, we agreed, and Yuri Lucenko suggested that it would be less than 10 minutes, so let's answer the questions for 30 minutes. Then there wouldn't be any problems, now there's a problem. Let's get to work, please. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u115	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At the beginning of the new millennium, Ukraine’s State Property Fund faces great and serious challenges. Based on the experience gained and the identification and understanding of the problems accumulated in the process of reforming state ownership, it has recently become imperative to establish principles for effective governance of state ownership. In the coming period, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine should more than ever meet its name, namely the State Property Fund, pay considerable attention to such an important aspect as control and preservation of and management of state ownership. Using all the scales and mechanisms, it is necessary to do everything possible to make the State Property Fund, as an authority authorized to manage state property, truly an effective owner and steward of state property. The Fund is to become an active preacher of public policy in the field of government property management, to defend the interests of the state in the sphere of government corporate rights. The adoption of the new State Privatisation Programme 2003-2008 will be an important step towards State ownership. The project provides for the analysis of ownership structures in the relevant sectors and taking into account international experience, the optimization of the public sector in the relevant sector of the economy. There is a need to determine objectively the boundaries of government property in the field of economic activity. The grounds for remaining state-owned enterprises should be those where, first, the State is the sole or main consumer of the production or services of the enterprise. The second is the production of social goods and services for technological or historical reasons cannot be passed on to State owners. Third, the temporary market failure due to the weakness of market mechanisms and economies in general cannot satisfy the demand for certain types of goods and services. Fourth - state enterprises are effectively marketed. In another case, the State must be freed from stock packages that do not allow the company to operate effectively and at the same time hinder the development of the enterprise and the arrival of the investment. Taking into account the strategy and ideologies of this course of further property reform, the project envisages leaving behind control packages of a size of at least 50 per cent of the statutory VAT fund, which can ensure that the State has a decisive influence on making the most important decisions regarding the activities of society. This approach is aimed at more efficient management of Ukraine's economy from the financial resources of the state and from the possibilities of real aid to enterprises. Small stocks left behind will be sold. With a view to optimizing the structure of state ownership and increasing governance, avoiding instability and uncertainty in the share of government property, it is necessary to create a single unified database: register, objects, state ownership rights, which is provided by the new Privatization Program. It is necessary to continuously introduce basic monitoring of information, its analysis, and the adoption of management decisions aimed at removing detected systemic obstacles. One of the key tasks of the fund in the coming years in line with the new programme project will become consistent, and once again I emphasize the successive transformation of the public sector. The gradual reform of the population-based complexes, the decision to bring each particular complex into market transformation will be very balanced and will be implemented cautiously and gradually. Taking into account important risks, hastyness in this matter is unacceptable. The preparation of complexes will be done using individual sub-programmes based on the location of the program. Preparation will begin with a detailed inventory of the property of the complex, an analysis of the impact of each enterprise on the production of the main product. After a detailed analysis, pre-training plans will be approved. These documents will set reasonable limits for reforming each complex. Only after all planned arrangements have been made for the preparation of the complex will there be a thorough diagnosis of the effects of privatization. Central executive authorities, highly qualified experts and consultants will be involved in the development and implementation of the sub-programme, and decisions approved by the sub-programmes will be taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The efficiency of government ownership depends on the financial capacity of the State to promote the development of enterprises and to increase their competitiveness. The State should use the cost of selling objects to develop enterprises to adopt them into market conditions of European society. The programme envisages a change in the way in which the funds received from the privatization of state property are used, the costs derived from the sale of state property are included in the Ukrainian State Budget and are partly directed towards compensation for the costs associated with privatization, as well as investment for the purpose of re-arming, modernizing and supporting privatized enterprises. Ukraine's State Property Fund stands firm in one position that the cost of selling businesses should be focused on innovatively updated to modernize industry production, should work on tomorrow's day of our economy. The innovation and investment model for State ownership reform has found an appropriate reflection of the Ukrainian National Privatisation Program draft. To ensure the effectiveness of the property reform process, the tasks assigned to the fund require a fundamental legislative framework. The support of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the adoption of bills on the State Property Fund is essential. Ukraine, a new national privatization programme, public property management, and shareholders. Without adequate political support, it will be very difficult to solve the problem, so the State Property Fund looks forward to supporting its efforts to effectively manage the state’s property of all the political powers of Parliament, government, state authorities. The Fund is ready for joint and constructive work with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, committees and parliament, Ukrainian National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We will be grateful to accept all the suggestions and suggestions and criticisms at the foundation’s address with a view to taking them into account and using them in our future work. For the purpose of establishing fruitful and close cooperation, I am personally prepared to meet with every national MP to discuss any problems of reforming public property and its effective use and I will be very grateful for your suggestions and advice. In part, I would like to express my warm and grateful words to the address of Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, who has long been the head of the State Property Fund, for creating a highly professional team of professionals, appropriate mechanisms of work, and for initiating close cooperation with the Supreme Council. And although property reform has certainly failed in a complex and unknowable way, it does not diminish the significance of the team under Alexander Mikolaiovich's leadership, on which we expect further work. In concluding my statement, I would like to emphasize once again that when letters are addressed to the Statehood Fund, with proposals from the people's deputies, we never look at the political faction or the political power of Parliament represented by a people's electorate, we try to get to the bottom of the problem as quickly as possible, to understand and to help, because we understand very well that there are tens, hundreds of thousands of voters behind you with their pain, needs, aspirations and problems. And thank you so much for bringing these painful human problems to the highest authorities and helping them to resolve them more quickly. Speaking today from the highest stage of the State, in spite of my eyes, I would certainly be insincere if I said that I was completely indifferent to the results of tomorrow's vote in the event of Alexander Nikolaevich's resignation from Parliament. Of course you don't, of course I want you to support me. And I'll ask you to back me up tomorrow. But as a former political MP, I understand very well how difficult it will be for most of you to make a decision tomorrow, especially given that it will be made more politically, politically. But I assure you today that I will treat with deep respect and understanding any decision taken by Parliament. Whatever decision is made tomorrow, I promise you that, as I will be open to dialogue with each and every one of you, I will be ready to meet with each and every one of you, to get the most out of your problems, to deal with the problems of your constituents, to understand and to help you, because, as no one else, I understand very well that only the close, consolidated work of all branches of power, the Housing Fund and the Supreme Council will be for the benefit of both the State and the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. We agreed, 30 minutes of questions will come. Please state the names of the national MPs on the board. National MP Mokchan, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u117	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich! The city of Krivi Rig, 31 constituency, Silent Volodymyr. I told you yesterday at the faction my point of view, I won't support you, but I want to repeat the questions I asked. Why, after all, did the State Property Fund appeal to a higher court for a difference of trade in the North Mining Coal? Why are you in the daytime order when you voted in the general mining community in the last year and chose the governing bodies, today you are putting in order to make changes? I'd like to hear it. And as for, if you can answer, you may not answer about my bill on the features of the privatization of Ukri.Prom.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u118	I'll start with the third. When day-to-day arrangements are put into place, there are unique enterprises, strategically important enterprises, enterprises that are strategically important to the state, and I think very balanced decisions should be made. And in this case, I've already said this about your bill, in my opinion, the prospect of developing an enterprise because of the prism of privatization, if the state goes for it, it has to be formalized in the form of a law. And in my opinion, we need to pass the law on the Ukri. I can't say what philosophy, ideology should be put into this bill right now, but that without the political support of effective privatization, I'm sure by 100 percent. And not only do we lose this company, the state loses. And I very much ask that you and I, now under the Property Fund, initiate the creation of such an interdisciplinary group to draft a bill on the perspective of Ukr.Proma. We invite the people's deputies there, let's make one bill, go state-owned, and we'll make sure that this unique enterprise is really developed. I see a prospect only in the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u119	National Deputy Rajkov, Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to ask you a question like that. In your speech, you said. That one of the main tasks of the Housing Fund is to maintain the State's stock control package of 51 per cent. I think you know that in order to invest in an enterprise, it has to be an effective owner. An effective owner is the one who owns the stock control package. Did we get you right or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u121	This is a very important issue and really in the privatization programme we have to solve one very important problem for the state -- the problem of optimizing state ownership in the country. On the one hand, when we leave an enterprise in state ownership, we need to understand that we are thus cutting it off from access to temporary investment. In this case, however, the State must assume responsibility for the fate of the enterprise and not just the responsibility but the corresponding liabilities in the plan of granting aid either through the budget, or the concessional lending regime, or the tax, or the State’s procurement. And if the state is unable to help under these parameters, and at the same time it denies against temporary investments, then the enterprise will be very difficult and it can go bankrupt as a state and then, so to speak, it can't be privatized. So in this case, the point was that where there are control packages, there is, the state has to say to itself clearly: there is an opportunity to support these enterprises, there is an opportunity to give them a hold, let's leave these enterprises in the government of the state, and where we are. We don't have the financial resources or the administrative resources, so let's go to privatization. And here, really, where there is a control package of shares, where the state can influence the appointment of the director, the leadership, and because of that to form economic and financial policies, it's more appropriate to leave and the state can do something to help. And where there is no control pack, the state cannot appoint its leader. And really, there's only a state dispersing its administrative resources and it can't concentrate on those key enterprises where, in fact, it can intervene and move them to a higher level and in efficiency and competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u122	National Deputy Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u123	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u124	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u125	Dear Michael Vasilovich, three, even four short questions. First. Why the management of the Holding Foundation so late mentioned the need for the implementation and consideration of the law on the administration of public property in Parliament. The initiators, such as Valentina Seminyuk, had to contact foreign embassies, ask experts for information on the need to do so. This is one step towards transparency in privatization. The other one. Why have you never supported a line to finance, to create a normal electronic repository? We still have everything under the carpet, there's no openness to privatization. And finally, your clear position on the privatisation of the Nicopoli Ferrosco factory? And tell me, please, what will you be guided by? The Cabinet's Privatization Order, that is, the sectoral principle of privatization under the instructions of the Cabinet? Will you be guided by a program approved by the Ukrainian Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u126	I got it. Thank you so much for asking. The first thing that concerns the adoption of a law on State ownership is that I called four basic bills that need to be adopted and we would very much ask that this law on the holding fund, on the privatization programme, on the new edition of the Act on Shareholders and the law on governance be adopted. In fact, for various reasons, from different viewpoints and opinions and national MPs, I am very respectful of every position, but we have not been able to come to the only conclusion. I'm very grateful to Valentina Petrovni, we work very closely in this direction, this is where we fit in, and we're going to do everything we can, as soon as possible, that the law on government property management was passed. This should be a comprehensive solution to the issue, the adoption of a privatization programme and the adoption of a law on government if we really want these privatization programmes to be implemented in life. It's about making a depository. I'm not against it, I'm ready now, even if there's a button, to press, to vote in favour, but the costs of coming are distributed by the Supreme Council. If you propose, from the privatisation costs to vote for two percent, or one percent to go, or the absolute amount of the amount to go to the depository, no one will object. I can't afford the money that comes into the budget. It's not me, and the State Property Fund can't handle it. Now, as far as Zalka is concerned, I fully share the position of respectable Alexander Mikolaiovich, who really said that everything should be decided by law. Let's do the privatization program, if we want it that way, let's erase the industrial investor's thesis, it's not there. And then, as they say, only money will be put into the head. Whoever brought more money, our bank, or the foreign bank, or this firm, or the investor is working on this market, and with it, there will be no worsening of the situation after privatization. Or rather a very bad situation, but he brought in more money, let's sell. Let's put this rule in the program and then one day we'll solve this issue so it won't be discussed. Unfortunately, the program there is a thesis about an industrial investor. The industrial investor is the investor that works on the same market segment, which requires the approval fund through the government of the corresponding classification requirements that have been made. Alexander Aleksandrovitch said that. But by law, we must decide once and for all to stop discriminating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u127	Vladimir Petrenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u128	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy, Hinzburg Olga Petrovne.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u129	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u130	Thank you. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Mikhail Vasilovich, I have two questions for you. And my fellow MP, Petrenko, and I could raise one topic. First. I wanted to say my opinion. I know that neither you nor anyone else--there's a golden man to put a place to it--it breaks under the pressure of the situation that we have in Ukraine after the privatization of businesses. I'm not just saying that, and that's a fact. They'll break everyone in there. And I'd like to believe that you'll be different, but that's true. I wanted to emphasize something else. We don't have laws. Whatever gold law we're taking here, they don't work, they don't exist in nature. We don't feel their action. For example, I am concerned about the question. The state property of the enterprise, if they are in your possession, they must also feel the interference of the state. For example, you said that economic and financial policy should be on the part of the state -- and the appointment of the director, and so on. I'm talking about Six, the Everything factory, we've talked to you about this. We've changed the director. We've appointed him. And there is no economic, financial policy on the part of the state. I'm asking you very much, please tell me what it takes to get us to do business like I have everything in Six, and it's in state property, to change the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u131	Thank you so much for asking. Indeed, the particularly difficult situation in those enterprises for which the market was all over the Soviet Union when they were implementing production not only on Ukraine, and the loss of the market -- it had a very negative impact on the situation in those enterprises. And a powerful example is "the universe." And in order to solve this problem node in this company, there was little effort by one fund, no effort by the Ministry, there was only a joint effort by the Ministry, the fund, the district administration, and the deputies. I've already set up a meeting where we'll all meet: and the district administration, it shouldn't be on the side of this process, the ministry, the State Property Fund, if you need to come, and you practice holding such a council with the participation of the national deputies where we really go to normal state decisions. And on the other hand, if there's a need for human strength in this company, let's do it, but it's very balanced. It also does not adorn the Treasury or the Treasury. And so the manager who has been appointed needs our support, too, the shoulder needs to be set up. I mean, once again, we're going to get very, very involved in this problem, we're going to meet with all the representatives of the branches of government, and we're going to try to help this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u132	Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u133	Sobolev, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. Mikhailo Vasilovich, you are the first Deputy Head of the Foundation since 1999. I understand you're working on a team with Mr. Bondar. And the decisions you made were made, including by your participation. Your head, the manager, resigns. As a team, you stay in place, more than that, with your head down, you're running for head of the State Property Fund. Is it moral or not? You may not answer that, God judges you. Now, two specific questions. I didn't hear the answer: this is how the privatization of the ferro-flat factory will be stopped, or it won't. Here's the Yellowstone, the Frost is asking that question. And the second question. You haven't been in Parliament for the first year. Privatization, so called under investment commitments. Key objects in Ukraine are privatized under so - called investment commitments. The state has lost billions of funds that have not been met with investment commitments. Give me examples of where such contracts have been broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u134	Thank you. I answer about ZALK. The court's ruling has already been made, and privatisation has been suspended. The other one. What touches the moral side of the problem and the discussion. This was decided by the hall and I am very uncomfortable here in this rostrum. We have a very good relationship with Alexander Mikolaiovich, he and I are friends and friends, and the procedure that put us on the rostrum today was not up to us. And I'm not ruling out if it's decided that Alexander Mikolaiovich is going to work at the foundation, we're going to continue to take care of the shoulder work. We're friends with him, we're friends, we're friends, we're friends, we're friends, we're human beings, and since the procedure's pushed so hard, I apologize. Third. What is involved in investment commitments? Investment commitments, which are, are the department where the fund clearly controls, where they are not executed, the fund breaks contracts, and after the court's sale contracts are broken, we're putting these objects on privatisation again. About a hundred objects where we bought sales contracts through the courts were broken up because of the fact that investment commitments had not been made. So this is where the investigation goes, it's not done, we're breaking the contract through the court. Thank you. For the Ferrous I said -- stalled, today's latest information, today was submitted to a Ferrous Eight Applications, two applicants responded before the start of the verification procedure by a special committee of the Documentary Fund. There are six remaining today, but this group has not completed a review of the documents of six potential buyers, potential owners, due to the fact that there is a court decision to suspend the competition. The contest is suspended today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u135	Sergei Matvienkov, European Choice Group. I'd like to ask you a shorter form and a shorter answer so that you can ask more questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u136	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Mikhail Vasilevich. You're taking the lead at a very difficult time, it's all wonderfully understood because the tasks of the fund today are to privatize such large objects as Krukrupprom, Telekom, Bread Ukraine and so on. Therefore, much will depend on your personal position as you do on matters. Therefore, I would like to ask you a specific question, please answer your personal position on the privatization of Krudprom. First, you believe that the privatization of this facility should take place as a whole or should be privatized separately by GOCs, enrichment plants and so on. That's the first question. Second question. If privatization is to take place as a whole, what proportion should be, what should remain of the State and what should be put on sale? I would like to have a specific answer to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u137	So I will answer, I hope, but unfortunately, I can only answer in half. I am deeply confident and will do everything to privatize this unique enterprise only under a separate law about.prom. There must be a separate law that should be done by the ministries, the holding fund, and the people's deputies. That's the first thesis. As far as philosophy and the ideology of the law are concerned, the economy needs to be read very and very well. I didn't count, I can't now, I have four choices, I called yes. But I can't say that this is the best one, this one. It's just going to be a superficial analysis, and it's going to take a lot and a lot of counting. Well, it's just that all it takes is the law to be, I'm sure, like no one else. Otherwise it will not only be bad for you, but it will also be bad for the interests of the economy and the state, as they say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u138	Andrew Schlell. Is there a Andrew School? Please, I didn't see it. Andrew School, please, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u139	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. Dear reporter, I would also like to highlight what my colleagues have been stressing. And I'd like to know your personal position on the subject of the Nicolaus Ferrospoline plant. Because you know, today Russian television has leaked information that it undermines Ukraine’s almost unstate security, that it breaks the relationship between Russia and Ukraine, that is, the same pressure that was exerted on Ukraine in the country’s clay plant, you remember. And our former colleague Bogoslovska then contributed to privatization in three copies to the state budget. I don't know how much she's made on this in person, that's her business. However, who and how much does he earn to privatize a ferrous factory? And what is your personal attitude, because you understand, is that Ukraine, with privatisation, is constantly losing. One day we're going to go out there and make some money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u140	First. My position with regard to proposals or Russian or other countries, we have to listen to them, yes, but we have to make decisions on our own, coming out of national interests. This is the first key thesis. So that we don't get advice from beyond the ocean, even though it's close to the neighbors, far away. Thank you, thank you for your advice, but decisions should be made on the basis of the national interests of Ukraine. It's a key thesis. Another key thesis. For today, we have come to such a level that simple decisions are no longer available. By the time simple decisions were made, he had already been thrown into summer. What concerns this enterprise is the normative base, I repeat what Alexander Mikolayovich said, is a normative base, there is a legislative basis, unfortunately, it has unfortunately been able to approve the government's terms of the competition and the foundation. As far as I'm concerned, I'm an expert, and I've been asked about the privatisation of Krustyrum and I can't say, I can't fool you into introducing what I didn't calculate, I haven't seen the figures. And we have people. which are far from the privatization economy and begin to comment on what numbers. But I can say that, in general, even this scheme of privatization of the Nicopolski Ferrospoline will put at least half a billion dollars into the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u141	Stanislaw Skybko, please, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u142	I would like to take the floor to Vassili Gureev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u143	Basil Gureyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u144	Dear Michael Vasilovich! Still on Rudprom. Whether it's privatized or not, it's an integrated approach or not, I don't think the State Property Fund will influence it. But given the complexity of your situation, I want to focus on one problem. There are closed shafts. And the budget, the state, is draining water all the time, and in the budget we're predicting Krivbas is restructuring, millions of dollars are losing. Now, after privatization, who's going to drain those waters in closed mines? That's the first question. The second question. Your position on privatization of the defence complex. So they know in what state, we know what kind of government order, they're limited and today they're obsolete core funds, they were once the best in the country, and they're still separate directions that need to be preserved. Your position. Question three. The question of intellectual property. When are we going to take into account the value of intellectual property when privatizing institutions, and not just the value of premises and creditors' debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u145	Thank you, Vasil Mikolaiovich. I have a lot of respect for you, but on the first question, I don't agree with you. There will be no fund at the side of the privatization process of Ukri.Proma. It won't. Maybe someone wants to push us out. No, the fund will be at the epicenter of this process. We've initiated this process. Next. If we were to take out separate businesses, sell them, then it wouldn't be clear what was in Krivbasa, yes, with mines. And that's a complex question to be asked. That's me. I didn't say that this law should be about the privatization of Ukr. prom, which is another way to call it the Law on the Perspective of the Enterprise, and in the context of that it should be about privatization, restructuring and solving the environmental problems that you're talking about. This is my position, I'm going to stand up for it, and if no one wants to push the fund out of this process, we're not going to get together. Third. That touches the defense complex. Well, it's a very serious question, it's hopefully not 7, 10 times to look at, look at, and in terms of the strategic significance of these enterprises for the defense of the state, for the security of the state. Furthermore, what may not be of such strategic importance to the security of the State in terms of opportunities to help these enterprises and, given the capacity of the State, to help make decisions on the private investor's move through privatization. But it has to be very, very careful here. Not to harm the security of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u146	Vadim Gurov, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u147	Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. First of all, a little trailer. In my opinion, there are only two cases where you can always bet your boss. When the deputy chief went up, that's a good thing. Or when something happened to the deputy, it's also the First Deputy's job. And in other cases, you both need to be cleaned up. Because you're saying the line is single, it's so smooth, so why is it so bad for us to privatize? No Bondar is to blame for this. Now for the question. The medics have a golden rule: no harm. Look, Krivbas, it's in the budget, it's in the pension fund, there's no debt on the salary. It's the one called Krudprom. So I would like to ask: for what purpose did you put him on the privatization schedule? What's going to change? If he was in a breakthrough, I understand. But if you privatize a prosperous enterprise, what is your goal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u148	I will repeat what I said at the end of my statement that I have deep respect and understanding for any decision taken tomorrow by Parliament. Now it's really about. It's about the Crucifixion. I'm sorry, I didn't write down the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u149	Why is privatization being exhibited, what were the motives, what were the motives?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u150	The point is, in the budget, as we didn't insist, but in the budget, there's a figure of $2 billion.100. In order for this income portion of the budget to be included under this article, the expenditure in the expenditure portion of the budget is included. In order for the matter to be resolved, some objects need to be put on privatization. We're still cautious about this, there's no energy in this plan, there's no Kretelekom, there's no Ukrbudprom and we've written it down, but we've written it down so that we can go very, very carefully just because of the decision at the legislative level, because of the formalization of this decision as a law. If the decision is made this way, it will not, so the privatisation of Ukrbudprom will not continue. If you want to say honestly, as I count it, I have never, with all due respect for the budget and the law, ever identified the fiscal component as the main goal of privatization. And if we're not sure that the privatisation of Krustram will give us the opportunity of an enterprise, then in my opinion, God forgives, let there be a budget failure, which will result in the loss of such an enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u151	Mikhail Vasilovich, you said correctly that there is no Skrnafta, we don't have much, even if it's still formally counted. You said right here you didn't. Mikhail Dobkin, please, the Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u152	Thank you. Mikhail Dobkin, Democratic Initiative Group, 174 constituency. Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, please answer such a question. I don't want you to find him provocative, I want to understand. Having heard your report to the Supreme Council, I believe that this is the report of the top-manager of the European level. It declares a lot of the right things, and if you're elected tomorrow, if you can stick to everything you've said, I believe that privatization in our country will be perfectly orderly. I have a question about this plan, you're not new to the State Property Fund, you've been on the team, I don't want to mention ethical reasons, you'll understand, especially if you have a friendly relationship with the chairman of the State Property Fund. I have a question like this, or what has been bothering you, or who has prevented you from pursuing such a policy to this day in the State Fund that you have stated that you will follow up after your election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u153	The first is not just my vision and it comes from the privatization programme developed by the copyright team, including the Ukrainian State Property Fund. But I am deeply convinced of the second, and I have said that I am asking for the support of Parliament, the Government, that it can only be implemented together through appropriate laws, appropriate normative acts. It's touching that it didn't give us the opportunity. I think if I gave Alexander Mikolaiovich more time to speak, maybe some of these and he'd say it. This has been invested in a new privatization programme, yes. The program's gone from the fund, it's a vision of a future fund. Yeah. But this perspective, I'm very grateful for the good grades, but we can only implement together. We're set up for this kind of cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u154	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u155	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Mikhailo Vasilovich, it is clear in Ukraine that all wealth goes to oligarchs from the use, exploitation of state monopolies and natural resources. What is the criterion, do you think, for example, that you would like to repeat, please, the activities of the State Property Fund? And you told us on the faction that eventually this State Property Fund should not be a privatization fund, a fund to preserve the interests of state property. Because today there's this question, look, there's a new philosophy of your foundation's work: in France France there's France de Electric, there's France de Gas, and there's the State Railway, and Aerofrance State, France works a hundred times better than we do. We already want to privatize the railway. Oblenergo was privatized. That's where the Hersons were privatized. Today neither the administration can nor people can figure it out, the state is poor. When will the new philosophy of preserving government property and its effectiveness be?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u156	Thank you very much. The new philosophy is in the privatization programme, where the emphasis is, on the one hand, on improving governance efficiency and, on the other hand, on the individual nature of privatization. And once again, I would like to say from this high rostrum the key question of the future privatization programme: this is a thorough preparation of the object for privatization and a thorough diagnosis of the consequences of privatization. If we are not sure that after privatization the enterprise will work better, there will be a higher level of competitiveness and efficiency, such privatization will not be necessary. So the business is not ready, not a market. Risking such objects where it might be negative for the security of the state, we don't have the right -- it's the first key and main thesis. And what's really touching is, on the one hand, privatization needs to be costed, and on the other hand privatization is the main thesis, the main requirement of the society of those people who work in the enterprise. They say the main thing is to ensure the development of the enterprise after privatization. And that's why I said this thesis in the program: the fiscal component shouldn't close our eyes on the future of the enterprise, and at least twenty-five percent of the state's funds will never be enough. Investing in tomorrow, developing, not eating through the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, just sit tight. From the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment to the presentation, the First Deputy Head of the Committee, Demjokhin Volodymyr, is invited. Prepare for the Head of the Special Monitoring Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u158	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. Yesterday, two issues were considered and a decision was taken on the acceptance of the dismissal of Aleksandr Nikolaevich Bondar. The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council give such consent. On the question of the appointment of Mikhail Vasilevich Cechochev, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u159	Thank you, sit down, please. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, Head of the Special Supervisory Committee on Privatization, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u160	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, yesterday at its meeting, the Special Supervisory Commission discussed the President's motion for the release of Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar from office of the State Property Fund, and since this issue is not a personnel issue, we cannot consider such issues, it is the question of the Economic Policy Commission, which is why you have listened to its opinion today. The decision that was made on the special review committee was to allow Alexander Mikolayovich to speak in the hall, to answer the question, the truth of time we predicted a little bit more. And the second. It is that, in accordance with the law on the Court of Auditors, this article 6 paragraph 8 states that it should conduct a preliminary analysis of the Committees and the Supreme Council of Ukraine reports to the Anti-Monopoly Committee on the implementation of State control over the enforcement of anti-monopoly legislation, as well as, I note, reports from the Fund of State Property of Ukraine and officials who are elected, appointed, or approved by the Supreme Council on the effective management of property, which is the basis of, the main national wealth and property of the Ukrainian people. That's why the commission asked the Accounting Chamber to carry out such an analysis of the 2002 report, especially since those proposals that were made in the 2000–2001 report were not accepted in the session hall, then the Supreme Council had warned of the negative effects of privatization, but the "community" had actually been made and the report was actually made for five minutes, the responses were then for ten minutes, the actual, detailed analysis of the Supreme Council had not done, adopted such a "not bite", such a light decision on the inefficiencies of the State Property Fund and not so much as the State Property Fund, as the Cabinet of Ministers and therefore, today I can only find out that it was actually necessary before the release of the House of Auditors, to follow the procedure accordingly -- firstly to release Alexander Mikolaiovich, and then to appoint. It's first, it's not ethical, it's ethical, and it's procedure as provided for by the bill on the House of Accounts. Regarding privatization itself, and I would like today to have members of the Supreme Council who were present or listening to parliamentary hearings, we talked not specifically about the work of the State Property Fund, we talked about conceptual approaches to the privatization system, about what is the negative that needs to be corrected. I would like, Alexander Mikolaiovich and Mikhail Vasilovich to have those results of parliamentary hearings reflected primarily in the Government Programme today. We need to get away from production, not from sales. We're just doing what we're doing, selling, selling, not thinking about how effectively an enterprise should work during privatization, until privatization and after privatization. And today, as the head of the special review committee, seeing the problems that are being privatized, I can tell you that we don't have privatization, we don't have a stock market, we have ownership among the clans. And that's why today it's going to be a complete splinter between the clans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, we're moving on to the performances, as we agreed, from factions. I'll tell you who. Light up on the board, please, from the factions. Well, full list, there are four national deputies: Washunik, Our Ukraine; Dobkin, Democratic Initiatives; and Alexander Frost of the Socialist Party. I'd like you to sign in if you're interested. Now let's move on to the performances. National Deputy Vasjunik, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Dobkin. So we're from factions first, and then we agreed from factions. No, we're from factions now. We agreed that you would speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. The biggest threat to the next phase of privatization is its politicization and engagement in the 2004 elections. Undoubtedly, there is a danger of exchanging Ukraine's strategic resources to support a candidate from power, and there is a real danger of transforming the State Property Fund into a sponsor of an electoral company at the expense of another large-scale human theft. That's why, honourable colleagues, we should consider today's discussion, and tomorrow's vote, to my conviction, not as a mere formal support for a candidate. We have to make our decisions based on systematic evaluations, the results of privatization in recent years, because it was the previous head and his first deputy, who is running today, who was in charge of this process. In this regard, let me share a few points with you. First. The privatisation program has failed for the last three years, the budget revenues are not executed, the shadow schemes are not eliminated. We have not heard the analysis of this failure, just as we have not heard the self-assessment of the responsibility of today’s challenger. The other one. Although privatization has taken place in Ukraine, it has not become a factor in economic growth, the formation of the owner's institution and the improvement of the economic structure. We got a dead stock market, a mass of inefficient owners and a lack of any corporate culture. Third. In Ukraine, there is a lack of state corporate policy, but there is a lack of exploitation of state property, and there is a beggary policy that is not worthy of a State’s dividend. Four. This problem, like many others, must be addressed through the responsibility of the State Property Fund. The State Property Fund, its leadership in recent years, has not even tried to take an adequate place in the political responsibility system for the results of privatization. It has provided a convenient location for both the technology operator and the contractor to order from one group or another. As for the candidature of Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov. I think there's a lot in this room that there's no doubt about his profession. But Mikhail Vasilovich once had the opportunity to show his professionalism when he was in charge of the privatisation scheme of the Zaporozhye Aluminum Union, which resulted in the loss of more than 150 million dollars by the State, and thus far the "limited liability society", which was formed six months before privatization, has not fulfilled any investment obligation. In this regard, the role of the Supreme Council in the prevention of outside or fatal privatisation decisions has been dramatically increased under the engagement of the executive branch today. [[I'm done.]] And we have no right to make a mistake. The other one. The State Property Fund should be headed by a person who has undisputed authority in Ukrainian politics and who does not represent or represent the interests of any group. It's a matter of honor for the Supreme Council, if you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u163	Mikhail Dobkin. Please, a group of Democratic Initiatives. Alexander Frost will speak after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u164	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! State property policies essentially determine the entire domestic economic policy of the country. It's just gone in Ukraine. A large part of government enterprises are monopolies that receive billions of dollars, but they tend to remain largely outside the State budget. Ukraine loses about 5 billion potential dividends each year. In the same way, it loses its ability to implement a large number of social programs, leaving teachers with an average salary of 198 bracelets and medical personnel with 176 bracelets. Last year, not even 440 million of the dividends planned in the State Budget came to the State. This meager plan has been implemented by less than 25 percent. And that's when only the government of the State Property Fund has control packages of about 300 companies with a total value of 12 billion dollars. The reason for that is that you're not counting dividends. As a result, hundreds of millions of dollars pass the State budget. The creation of national stockholders and holding companies is accompanied by a free transfer to the administration of state property without setting appropriate restrictions on its alienation. The result is gray privatization. It's happening in closed offices. The winners of the privatisation auctions are identified on open tenders, and thus in saunas and hunting houses. Thus, privatized industries produce 53 percent of the total output, but they make only 25 percent of the investment. The amount of unrealized investment liabilities increases by 100 million dollars each month. That's why we have the embryonic state of the stock market. Its capitalization is only 7 percent of GDP. In Poland this figure is 20 percent, and in Estonia, in Hungary it is 37 percent. A targeted policy of deterrence of foreign investors has led to one of the lowest foreign per capita investment rates. Over the years of independence, foreign direct investment amounts to $80 per capita, which is one and a half times less than in Belarus and seven times less than in Azerbaijan and thirty times less than in the Czech Republic and Hungary. Destructive policies aimed at dissuading serious institutional investors have, among other things, the result and continuing lack of income from privatization. Only part of the government’s equity package is systematically put on sale. It was a violation of the law. Shareholders and participants in the privatisation trade, not to be admitted to the board of directors. As a result, not only do we have low monetary revenues from privatization, but we also have no real investment. The artificial restriction on competition is crippling the possibility of price increases on shares. Because of such voluntary activities, the state budget is undercounting hundreds of millions of dollars. It's a separate matter of renting government property. This process remains completely opaque. There is no complete list of leased objects. It usually happens at prices that are 5-10 times lower than market prices. At the same time, in the wake of this ruin, the State Property Fund is spending 25 million dollars on its own needs in 2001. In conclusion, I want to say that the fundamental change in the policy of the State Property Fund, the granting of equal rights to property subjects, the weighted state support for weak sectors, the transparency of procedures are the necessary conditions for restoring what we call privatization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u165	Alexander Moroz, of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Bastris.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u166	Honorable MPs, distinguished radio listeners! When I was chairman of the Supreme Council, there was a change in the Head of the State Property Fund. Instead of Yuri Yehanurov, who was governed by the Law on the State Property Fund, Alexander Bondar was recommended. The replacement took place by accident, because then the Supreme Council tried to ensure that relations in the state were adequate. Since national ownership had been privatized and the Supreme Council represented the people of Ukraine, the relevance was clearly followed. In order for transparent privatization, two extremely complex laws on the circulation of securities and electronic depositories have been adopted. What came into it was that the President's desire for power was, in particular, to hold these important governments in his hands, not how many states, but the interests of those who somehow intervened in privatization. And it was all done to break this perfectly logical scheme and introduce another principle, so that privatization would be carried out according to the direction of the administrative force, that is, the state, the President and his immediate surroundings. In these circumstances, there has been a change in the head of the State Property Fund, and with all due respect for Alexander Mikolaiovich, I will now neither reproach nor praise him or that because he was an element of this system nor any more. Notice, during this time, there was the primary coastal privatization with certificates and so on. Today, the second phase of privatization is continuing, and note that the same mechanisms that were used in the first phase are now being applied to large items of state property, former state property. There's a colossal concentration of capital, through the mechanisms we discussed yesterday and in the statement we did, our faction and other factions, through the transfer of state property to the administration. She's handing it over to one of the co-owners of the company, and then for nothing, it's all sold into the same co-owner's hands, kind of at the time of privatization. And the property is gone. Property came into private hands. We said this in the Nicopolian factory, this is the exact same thing in the Zaporozium Aluminum. Everyone's raised violence, listen to what they're doing, 180 million are stealing from the state, and no one can do anything or do anything, and they've stolen, and everyone knows they've stolen. This policy continues. What was the result? I've just been bringing up my predecessor of comparison with Hungary, we've about 60 times relative to a Ukrainian citizen in privatization, we've lost compared to Hungary or, more faithfully, robbed 59 times of Ukrainians during this privatisation, because it was about efficient use of property, and we're talking about how to take what's coming to profit, take it into private hands and put it into private hands. The bottom line is, it doesn't matter who it is, Chechetov or Bondar, or anyone, because it runs a system that continues its previous work -- the plunder of society, the plunder of the state. So it's not about changing heads today, it's about changing the power system, starting with the President. Here's the conclusion to be made. And our faction in this affair doesn't want any part of it. That is why we will not vote in any way — not for our release, but for our assignment, let us take a look. We hope that deputies and other factions will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u167	The Bastrig People's Dept. from the faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u168	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, we are now considering a very and very serious issue. Why is he serious? Well, it's serious because we initially got to privatization wrong. We didn't set the main goal - what should we do with the sale of property? We did not pursue the sale of inefficient enterprises, but went together. And as a result, we see how our budget is being formed today, how it is being filled with dividends, how the budget is being filled. And over the past year, to the extent that these data are reliable, we have received four per cent of the return on the profits of the privatized enterprises. Of course that's the main reason. I therefore fully support the need to allow the Court of Auditors to make a thorough analysis of the work of the State Property Fund, to spend time there, then in this sessional room enough, maybe even a half, because this is one of the articles that can seriously fill our budget and resolve social issues. I have specific proposals. First. I've already spoken at parliamentary hearings in this room, and there are such wise words: in time to stop in a losing cause is already a profit. Today, it is necessary to suspend privatization, engage in the law on economic societies, engage in a law that would allow the State and leave the State with the right to intervene, even though there is one golden action. A serious review of the Bankruptcy Act, which has been written in a very literate manner, has been avoided by many enterprises and the profits of enterprises have been stolen. The analysis, as calmly stated today, is based on accounts payable per year to the unsuspecting, hundreds of millions. Someone has to analyze these numbers. This leads to, it's afraid of what they'll ever say in this room: stop, let's think about what we're doing! Therefore, I would like to refer once again to our colleagues and to the distinguished heads of the State Property Fund. This is how I support and realize that it's not your fault, it's your system. Therefore, we need you, whoever is here, to find ways for legislators to protect that the main objective of the sale of the core funds is to be devoted and incomes from the proper work of well-organized privatized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u169	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u170	Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. According to the Socialist faction, there is no privatization in our country and there is a division of property among clans. Here, even with knowledge, my predecessors told me about saunas, about underground other methods of doing so. But what I'm saying is that since its founding, the socialist has been advocating a competitive economy, especially against the clan derby that we see today in the economy of Ukraine. And the Nicolepol Ferrous Plant, which Mr. Chechtov had to give for the President’s submission to his presidential family, at half price, giving twenty - five percent to the auctions, and twenty - five percent of it is not the only example for the government. Unfortunately, today's Head of the Fund also has on his conscience and the Mikolai Agricultural Plant, and Donbasenergo and PNZ all over Ukraine and many other examples. Another thesis. Socialists for the state regulation of economic processes and as its main component, for the effective management of state property. What do we have today? We have only 250 million dividends today on government property in a year. Think about this figure, all over Ukraine. We have an example today, for example, from my home country of Plain Nitrogen. The control package was devoted to the government administration and gave it to the private structure and the factory, which has always given 20 to 30 million per year of income in one year, let me say, it has 120 million losses. At the same time, the holding fund was removed from its response to the situation. How investment commitments were carried out. "Ukrainian Aluminium," there are no Lords today, I'd like to know where the investment is and where the aluminum plant, the primary aluminium production in the Kharkiv region. The same is true of many other objects, but what is done in the DUSA, the State Office of Presidential Rights. Hey!Oh, my God! The Presidential majority, soon to be filled with vodka, have alcoholics transferred from the holding fund to the President's Office more than the state has left. I don't know if they're just drinking or doing anything, and they're still resting. In Crimea they also have many houses of rest. The third thesis. It's about the candidature. Chechetov, on the example of the Nicolaus Ferrospoly plant, demonstrated the MPs and our faction’s willingness to carry out family and clan orders. Bondar did exactly the same during the previous years, unfortunately. There is no other authority. That's why our situation was set out by the head of our faction Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, we will not be taking part in planned debates, if that happens, that Mr. Bondar will be removed from his post, then the only argument we can take up Chechtov's candidature will be the guarantee that an objective list of privatizations for a year will be approved in this room, including individual laws for the largest enterprises, will be adopted by the members of the Supreme Council on the features of the privatisation of Krustproma, Skrutelecoma, Skrnafti and so on. These are the only two conditions under which we can consider voting in general for the next candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-02-m0.u171	Thank you. The distinguished national deputies, the distinguished ones present, all who signed up for the talks on the subject spoke. I'd just like to say that in closing. In fact, to a certain extent, there's not exactly an ethical point that we're already discussing the successor's candidacy with our active head. But, folks, listen. I want to read it from Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, and he writes: “Please release me from my position as Head of the State Property Fund at my own request in connection with the transition to another job. So, the statement leaks out, the minute, the esteemed colleagues, from the statement that a person already has another job, and she wrote a corresponding statement. I mean, there's a reason to think about it. That's the first one. Second, respectable colleagues. The decision was such a Conciliation Council and plus two committees, including Valentina Petrovna Seminyuk, only time differences. I mean, more time to take up this issue. And I thought, Alexander Mikolayovich, when he thought that the principle line was what he was demonstrating today, he could come to the Supreme Council and say, because he's giving consent to his appointment: honourable national deputies, you've agreed to my appointment, I want to report to you and to give you an assessment of my activities, and then after assessing your activities, I'll write a statement. I'd say that's the principle, I think you'd support me, the position was. As far as the account room is concerned. There is a point, indeed, that the function and authority of the Court of Auditors, paragraph 8, conducts a preliminary analysis, an analysis of the reports of the State Property Fund and officials who are elected, appointed or approved by the Supreme Council on the effective management of property, which is the main national wealth, property of the Ukrainian people. So this is two of these. We did not consider the report today, but we did consider the issue of release and appointment. Secondly, we don't approve or appoint, and we don't choose the head of the State Property Fund, we give exclusive consent to the President for appointment. So this is where we went, I think, balanced and correct. As for the decision, tomorrow we will vote and make the right decision, first on the release, and then, if there is a positive decision, on the assignment. We just worked here to save time. Although there is an ethical moment, I agree with Alexander Alexandrovich here, I would be grateful if he had been told that I was present. Ladies and gentlemen, the morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. At 2.30 p.m., there will be parliamentary hearings on the banking system. I would ask you to be present, and whoever does not, to take your cards away so that they may be preserved.
