ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:02:50]] Registered -426 There are 426 national deputies registered in the hall. The evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues! As we agree, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 is now being announced for consideration. The Budget Committee proposes the following rules: a report from the Cabinet of Ministers, up to 10 minutes, answers to questions, up to 10 minutes, a report from the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, up to 10 minutes, and answers, up to 10 minutes, discussions, speeches by the people's deputies within 40 minutes. Please, National MP Melniczuk of the procedure. I'm asking the reporter to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u2	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I don't mind considering making changes to the Ukraine State Budget Act for 2003, but only today did we get these documents, this is an important document, we need to work out. But I would like to discuss separately the agricultural issues of the 600 million people who absolutely need to vote in this room and give the government 48 hours to make it possible to do so. Tomorrow it will be too late, and 26 million for the irrigation of the Hersonian, the Odessa region. 150 million for animal subsidies and so on. I would like this block of questions and this sum to vote accordingly is separate from other very important issues. And in principle, allow us to process this very important document that needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u3	Thank you. Yes, please. Everything? Dear colleagues! We agreed three weeks ago that 13 numbers at 16 will be considered by the draft law amending the State Budget Act, and today we're looking at it. Let's think about it, let's talk about it. With regard to a specific proposal, to bring the APC problem behind the draft bill's parentheses, a separate bill is needed. So let us go to the proper consideration of the Rules that we have agreed upon. I invite you to the report of the Secretary of State of Finance of Ukraine Fedor. Wait a minute. Peter Sass, please. Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u4	Sergei Sass. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Sas, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the requirement of the Rules. In particular, article 6.5. 1, where it is noted that the bill is prepared by the Main Commission for the first reading, the conclusions of the relevant committees and other materials are made available to the deputies no later than six days before the hearing. The material to the mentioned question is given to the national deputies today. People’s deputies had no opportunity to get to know these materials. And there's more. I'd like to talk to you about that. The bill that was given to us says in the Prime Minister's letter: "Article 3 of the bill makes a technical error in the section "Resize the size of the rent." [[second paragraph]] There is no article 3 in the bill itself. And other things. The bill contains pages 1 and 3. There is no second page at all. I would like to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers is more sensitive to the drafting of this bill. In order not to be in the way of problems related to a violation of the law, I propose that the bill be left uncontested today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I think our colleague is right too. I think we need to pay attention to the Cabinet of Ministers to make it more responsible to formulate its positions. With regard to this issue, it is brought into consideration in connection with the fact that it was agreed upon at the Conciliation Council of Deputies three weeks ago and was confirmed yesterday. As far as I'm concerned, one minute! As for what we received too late, in fact, we received documents here three days later. This is due to the fact that both the Cabinet of Ministers brought in the late 10 figures and the fact that the deputies worked in the districts and were absent. Let's look at it, and then we'll define ourselves in the process of discussing this problem. Is there no objection? Please, Feder Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u7	Well, I've already announced the question before. Excuse me, please. Yuri Carmazin and we're moving on to the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u8	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have just spent my lunch to find out if there is a conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority on the bill. There is no conclusion. It was only yesterday that this document was submitted to the Science-Expert Authority, only it was obtained by the performer. In the order set, this document is analyzed for at least five days, you understand. We are also given an annual report on the implementation of the Ukrainian National Budget 2002 Act, which is also an extensive document. How can you, without considering the annual report, ask questions about changes without scientific expertise? I'll tell you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we haven't had that question in nine years. And there should never be. Because this is contrary to both the Rules and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u9	Please, Feder Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, present! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending and supplementing the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 and some other tax laws is proposed. What is proposed in the draft law presented by the government. The bill aims to ensure that a number of priority socio-economic tasks are implemented. The first is looking for additional financial resources to make minimum wage. It is known that this year’s budget was adopted in December last year without taking into account the further increase in minimum wage. Realizing that we can't allow income and expenditure imbalances in the budget, we've really assessed the ability to look for additional sources of funding. And the first step in implementing the Ukrainian Act on Minimum Wages for 2003 was to make payments to budget workers to the statutory minimum wage level of EUR 185. However, in full terms, it is necessary to ensure that the additional workload caused by the increase in minimum wage parameters is not allowed to break through the budget reserves, and the distortions in the implementation of other articles cannot be prevented without a review of legislation. Therefore, to provide financial security for the introduction of a minimum wage of $180. The bill proposes to increase the general budget of the State budget by EUR 623 million. The other one. You certainly know, and today this question has been raised, how difficult the situation has been this year in agriculture. About half the crops of the winter were affected. They need money to move them. That's another problem, not enough moisture. And another of the many problems — the low cost of animal production — has led to a reduction in the size of cattle, pigs, and a reduction in the volume of other agricultural products. Thus, the government considers it necessary to provide financial support to agricultural producers affected by natural disasters, as well as the development of the agricultural market, with a further target of 576 million. That's right. Third. It is proposed to increase spending on a number of emergency social programs by 225 million. That's right. This is about increasing pensions for military personnel, increasing scholarships by 44 million. and lifelong payments to scientists at 12.2 million. The bracelet and everything. In general, it's suggested that we pay an additional cost of 1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union for the financial year 2014-2020. That's right. On what basis is it proposed to do so? First source. This is an improvement in the existing tax legislation, which will allow an additional 535.6 million to be added to the budget. That's right. Some excise duty rates are proposed to increase by 234 million. That's right. An increase in the rent for oil produced in Ukraine is $214.3 million. That's right. The increase in rent for gas in Ukraine and the introduction of rent for gas condensed in Ukraine is 87.3 million. That's right. Second source. The government proposes to increase the annual budget allocations by 325.8 million. That's right. It's going to be imported and exported -- 192 million dollars. The money, the customs, it's $90 million. The sum and other payments are 43 million. That's right. Third source. According to the re-direction of the special budget of the State target supplement for the construction of nuclear power plants in the amount of 225 million tons, a special fund of the State target budget has been allocated to the United Nations Development Programme. That's right. The adoption of this bill will also provide real funding for investment projects in local budgets. Four. Reduction of expenditure by $237.7 million The money at the top of the government debt service is 287.2 million dollars. In general, these are the real sources that will financially ensure the introduction of the minimum wage of 185 dollars, allowing resources to strengthen state support for agriculture, other important social issues, while improving tax legislation. We should not allow the imbalance of the income and expenditure portion of the budget, let alone a situation where a beautiful figure on paper does not give real money to a particular person. Therefore, as a result of budget constraints, it is proposed in the draft law to provide for the suspension of the minimum wage of 237 dollars from 1 July of the current year. Ladies and gentlemen, another question I would like to address is the bankruptcy and liquidation of the Ukrainian commercial bank, which has been extremely protracted, which has prompted us to consider the issue of the redemption of property that is in the hold of the National Bank of Ukraine. This will help to avoid its further degradation and abuse, create conditions for the further use of this property in more effective directions, as noted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The source of this expenditure is proposed to determine the additional excess of income over the expenditures of the National Bank "Ukraine" from the operation. What would I like to focus on again? That in the proposed government bills the expansion of the resource partly by improving the existing bill. That's how you have to look at the proposals in the complex. In any case, these questions cannot be answered. Dear national MPs, parliamentarians! Teachers, doctors, cultural workers, are waiting for the decision of the Supreme Council to be taken. At the same time, the government, along with the task force, will work on maximizing your proposals that will not change the budget balance. The government is also counting on your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u11	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the Secretary of State. I'd like you to fill out a list of names on the board. Mikhail Kosov, please, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u12	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. Dear reporter! You remember, apparently, when the budget was approved, perhaps not a conflict, between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Budgets, it was that the Committee of Budgets insisted on increasing the income portion of the budget accordingly, and the social costs you were talking about. The Cabinet of Ministers has convinced us that there is no way to increase the income portion of the budget. As is the case now, because the statement on this point is completely the opposite. Right now, it's like the Cabinet of Ministers might be able to find extra funds to cover those demands for wage increases. But why did we not immediately consider these proposals when we approved the basic law of the annual, or State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u13	Thank you. Of course, it's an interesting and reasonable offer, but you know ideologies, philosophy, how the 2003 budget was adopted this year. And you know that the Minimum Wages Act has been passed since the adoption of the budget for the current year. So the government, given this, has worked and calculates that, indeed, this law needs to be implemented, but the resources to fully implement the two minimum wages of 230 dollars today of our state's economy cannot provide enough money for the budget to come into effect today. And if you're informed that the income situation that goes on today, it also goes on extremely intensely, and there are enough different factors that affect the Income and Expenditure Budget Act. So the government has been working and has found compromising options to involve additional sources to provide these social needs that are being addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u14	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u15	Dear Fedor Alexiyovich, I have two questions for you. First. Until now, there will be no previous law on the budget for capital deposits. Deputies from all factions have made their bids for capital investments, five months have passed, and nothing is being built in the state. It is not clear why the government does not implement the Budget Act, which, along with the Committee's budget, had to distribute capital investments in the regions, taking into account the positions of factions and national deputies. First question. Second question. To what time will you increase the funding of the Presidential Administration of the so-called DUS, State Administration of Affairs? Did they have enough to add up to 330 million a year? Well, how long is this going to take on this soul?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u16	Thank you for asking. You're absolutely right to make reasonable suggestions about the coming of money on centralised capital investment. You know, over the past years and this year, it's extremely difficult to identify sources and administer them, and it's extremely difficult. But I can assure you that the government has already taken steps to get the relevant sources involved, to make the right decisions, is already looking for the money to be involved. The year 2003 has ended, declarations have already been made, financial plans have been drawn up, and all measures will be taken by the government to ensure that this budget article is implemented this year. As to the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u17	The budget committee is expected to approve the objects for capital construction under the Budget Code. Why is this not done, and when will it be done? The essence of the question, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u18	The essence of the question. Soon all of this will be done. The second question. The issue is precisely in the context of increasing the implementation of the Minimum Pay Act, restoring the ratios, and the question is not about raising expenditure on the Presidential Administration, but is about ensuring the operation of the Minimum Work Act in institutions that are in the Presidential Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u19	Stepan Cloud, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u20	I think we're all very pleased with the answer to the second question, and I'm also asking you to give the floor to Deputy Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u21	National MP Kalinchuk, Kirilchuk, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u22	Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Fatherland. Please tell the Honorable Reporter. The State Budget for 2003 is recorded in the agenda. [[Agreed]] Who he's in agreement with when the drafters of the bills, who've given other levels of income, who. In order to comply with the Act on the Increase in Wages, you didn't count? That's the first one. The other one. Please tell me whether we have the right to consider the budget today, when this budget is not budgeted, there is no way to abolish excise laws or the law on wage increases that you are reducing or are planning to fail to comply with these laws. And the third. Where do you get the money to raise a teacher and a doctor in a village to pay when you didn't anticipate the funds for local budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u23	Thank you for asking. First. The bill was worked on by working groups, and in the process of processing calculations were made, analytical materials and questions were provided, all of which were in line with the committees that were involved in the work of these working groups. On the second question. This bill is amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget 2003 Act and some tax laws are also proposing changes to existing tax laws. This includes the Act on the Excise Congregation, the Tax Law, and the Law on the Taxation of Business Income. And the third question is, where do you get the money in the village? I want to emphasize, and you know, when the 2003 budget was adopted, the revenues of the local budgets were diverted to 1.6 billion dollars that were included in their expenditures. We have done an enormous amount of analytical work on the introduction of a minimum wage of 185 dollars per local budget, studying their cost opportunities. Virtually all regions have been checked, and it has been established that to date local budgets are provided with adequate financial resources for the introduction of a minimum wage of 185 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u24	National Deputy Komar, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u25	I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, don't understand why this kind of harsh treatment of a man in the rostrum, if we all know that Feder Alexiyovich has done a great deal of what has not been done in Ukraine over the past three months. My word to Conovaluku Valeria Illi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u26	Valery Konovaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u27	Thank you, Mikola Stepanovich. Dear Feder Alexiyovich, in fact, by supporting the government, we will be helping to solve the problem of budget changes and resolving the minimum wage issue by the end. Feder Alexiyovich, you know the committee's decision because you were present on this issue. And I think the head of the committee is going to tell his report, but that's a question. We have a lot of references coming from local authorities, and you've also raised this issue in the report, not all of them are provided with resources to increase the ratio of the minimum wage. That's the first question. And I want to ask you again whether the Ministry of Finance has been looking at the possibility of abolishing individual tax benefits that would give additional revenue to the budget. But there's a situation where we have a fuel-energy complex, you know, like a dairy cow, which in principle provides certain resources today, when we consider increasing income, not thinking that there was a lot of years and a drawback that really didn't solve absolutely any financial issues and in the budget in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u28	Thank you. On the first question, I already answered the local budgets that the resource was provided. In the central budget, we're just counting that the budget isn't enough. And there's a proposal for an increase of 626 million. Regarding the milk cow -- Naftogaz Ukraine -- the question is quite different. So you know, the oil business, it's extremely profitable. And our position here is about the optimal balance of payments of resources, rents and income taxes. So we have two articles to do today. This is 52 -- about removing part of the profit, where we need to remove this part of the profit and provide the source. And with regard to the increase in the minimum wage, we have examined in detail the financial plans, and in fact, today there is such a real opportunity to set up such an interest rate that would be really reliable sources of the income part of the budget in the second half of this year. The ploughs. We also worked on the questions. But you know, there were a lot of different laws that were passed in this room in support of shipbuilding, aircraft building, machinery building, and so forth. So now we're working very hard to reduce all these benefits. And in other laws that we're going to work on the value added tax and profit tax, that's exactly where we're going to propose measures to cancel these taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u29	Feder Alexiyovich, thank you, time's up. Have a seat, please. I invite the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Peter Dustenk, to report. Please, Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u30	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to start by supporting the position taken by the First Vice-President of the Regulatory Committee and based on the decision taken by the Regulatory Committee to prevent violations of the procedure during the consideration of all bills, primarily budget bills. This means that at least the budget committee has reached its conclusions regarding the procedure. At the same time, in answer to a question: Who, then, was approved of the bill now submitted to the Supreme Council? In fact, it was created by the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council, a working group that, unfortunately, had never met in its entirety, and this reflects the interest that government officials and some national deputies actually have in the well-balanced, balanced, calculated changes to the State Budget. So when we make accusations, we should first look at ourselves. But we've tried our best to work out those mechanisms to increase the income of the State budget, which could make it possible to implement the rules and regulations of the minimum wage law, which foresees an appropriate increase. I can say that 80 percent of the budget proposals were taken into account by the government. And that's where the extra resources that the government is offering us for approval come from. Why did we do that? I confirm a speech by a colleague of Kosovo who said that all the work that we are doing here was done back in October, November, December 2002, and today's budget day, the joint efforts of the government in this direction allow us to conclude on the objectivity and regularity of the calculations that the Supreme Council then presented to the government and around which there was a huge noise that someone was trying to blow up the budget with the air. Life told us that our calculations were correct. Now for the spending part of the budget. I can confirm that the position of the National Deputies and the position of the Committee of Budgets was as follows. We should not overburden this bill with any of the most important issues, except the question of raising minimum wage, because the solution to this most acute, painful social issue is much more important than solving any other seemingly important but time-consuming issues that we think have to be resolved by means of individual bills. As for the procedure, we have now held a meeting of the budget committee, which lasted almost three hours. It was very difficult because, first of all, there were observations that we were looking at this bill in an extremely short term, and second of all, a huge number of comments were made to this bill, and I wouldn't want to misuse time and count them all. The main point was the procedure. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets strongly denies the adoption of this bill on Thursday and the voting of the bill as a whole. We are confident that we must abide by the rules of the Rules and be able to take into account the proposals made by members of the people, in order to take into account the position of scientific and legal administration, it is essential that we have some time for the second reading that the Rules of the Supreme Council require of us. That is why we will recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft ruling that has just been approved by the decision of the regulatory committee where we recommend it. I apologize for recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget of Ukraine and certain other tax laws, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of only the first reading. Second paragraph, following the insistence of the members of the Rules Committee on the removal from the draft paragraph of Part Two, Part One, of the suspension of the minimum wage rule of July 1, 237. Why are we doing this? It's not really a populist position, it's for us to be able, once we have a carefully calculated resource of the income part in the second reading, to allow the Supreme Council to determine when, or whether or not, we should suspend the rule of action of this law. To the National Deputies, paragraph 3 of the draft regulation recommending the adoption of the Budget Committee by the 18th of May of this year, to submit to the Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Proposals for a Draft Amendment Act and beyond. It's number four. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Questions should finalize the draft bill, taking into account the proposals, the comments of legislators, and make it available for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. That is, we need to follow the regular procedure clearly. What positions do we need to take into account and which are not included in the government bill? I've already said that part of the government's proposals to increase the income for one reason or another have not been taken into account by the government. And we would like these proposals to be considered by the Supreme Council and made objectively with regard to their fate. Second position. The question of the solution of even balancing ratios is very important to the interests of local budgets. The Budget Committee has explicitly and unanimously approved the position to listen and individually approach the position of each individual local budget, artificially under pressure to adopt the Law on budgetary change is extremely risky and unacceptable. The Budget Committee proposes on May 16 when a meeting will take place in the Supreme Council with the heads of the district councils, the heads of the district budgetary commissions, the heads of the local self - government subjects, and the opportunity to raise the issue after the budget has been adopted as a basis for the first reading to be discussed by the representatives of the regions. And only after we have discussed the matter carefully on Friday will they consider adopting the fourth supplement of the State budget. In addition, we are confident that it is not appropriate to allocate additional funds to any other expense, other than the minimum wage and the solution to the problem of agriculture. What does that mean? The development of law enforcement, force structures, other principals of the funds contained in this bill today must be resolved only after we have received the answer to the main question: raising the minimum wage and establishing the appropriate inter-tariff ratio. And we are also confident that the issues that have been raised today, such as transfer, implementation, financing of public funds, as asked by my colleague Lucenko today, from 1 February to 1 June, are unacceptable because someone has to be responsible for the fact that 5 months in the state is not financed by public investment, because on the one hand we do not have the resources to finance them, because part of the revenue of public enterprises is not removed, and on the other hand, the relevant ministry does not submit to the budget committee to approve an objective list of state capital investments. So let's talk about responsibility first. This should be the key word, and then it should be allowed to carry the deadline for implementation, the deadline for solving the problems posed by the Committee on Budgets. That's why we ask the honourable colleagues to support a similar proposal from the budget committee, and given that the issue of solving the minimum wage problem should be unlocked, because we have a responsibility with you to not solve this problem, we recommend that we compromise and adopt a government project on the basis that the budget committee can proceed with its work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u31	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Is there a question? Yes. Please sign in. Please state the names of the national MPs on the board. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u32	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, I have two specific questions I asked you on December 26. And in front of me is a transcript of your beautiful deeply motivated and deeply optimistic answers. You haven't solved my doubts, I don't understand. So the capital investment costs for the investment projects of the Ukrainian National Deputies will be or won't they be, first? And then tell me. Who Is to Blame? The minister has a name, he has a face if he has a face. Who Is to Blame? And the second question. Please turn around to the city of Zaporozhye. There in the transcript, 14 million dollars were to be allocated to the construction of bridge crossings that were strategically important for Ukraine, not just for Zaporozhye. Please return to the investment projects of the National Deputies and 14 million at the bridge crossings for Zaporozhye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u33	Dear fellow Suhi! Since the faction "Our Ukraine," which I represent, is not part of a coalition government, I'm sure it's much easier for you, as a majority participant, to figure out who is personally responsible with you for transferring the project to the budget committee. That's the first one. The other one. The 14 million question. After a comprehensive discussion of the basis for the allocation of funds for the construction of bridges in Zaporozhye, the Budget Committee at the second reading stage will determine and decide on the appropriate decision or confirm its previous decision on the allocation of funds for the construction of bridges in Zaporozhye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u34	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u35	Stepan bubba. Please give the word to Joseph to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u36	Joseph of Viennese, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u37	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Peter Alexiyovich, I would like you to clarify the answer to a series of questions for the people's deputies. First question. Why do you think the Cabinet of Ministers has not submitted this bill to the Supreme Council for almost six months? Because everyone knew in December that the budget did not close the cost of wage increases. It's a different subject. If this budget, which the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted, decides that from July 1st we don't raise the minimum wage, which is the direct entry in this document, then whether that means that we don't get any pensions, because pensions are made on the basis of payroll calculations. So does that mean, in your opinion, that the Cabinet of Ministers has made a tough decision to block any social programs in Ukraine? And the next question then. Where should this money go? Isn't it sometimes for the presidential election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u38	Thank you, Reverend Joseph Vicentiovich. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to ask these questions to the government when he felt it was necessary to submit the bill. I have such an explanation that in order to examine the state of implementation of the budget this year and to confirm the calculations that we have made with you, Joseph Vikcentiovich, during the budgetary process, it took the government some time to understand the trends. Well, in terms of economic science, it takes, at least, a quarter. The findings of the first quarter show that our calculations were correct and that the government has some reserves to solve these problems. I would like to stress once again that our position, for no other purpose than to raise the minimum wage, we should not direct the costs. With regard to the increase in pensions, unfortunately, pensions are irrelevant and the budget of the Pension Fund is not regulated by the law of Ukraine on the State Budget. [[I'm sorry!]] If the Supreme Council supported the budget committee's proposals and the budget resolution for the current year, it would be up to you to date, national deputies on the basis of the objective calculations we would make with you, to make changes to the State Budget Act, to increase the expenditure of the Pension Fund, and to decide on an increase in pensions. I would ask that if we were to develop the 2004 Budget Resolution so that the experience of the current year as expressed in the question of Joseph Vicentiyovich would be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u39	Peter Alexiovich, we may need to develop it, not speak in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u40	Well, according to the budget code now. The government, it's in the government field.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u41	Well, we should take the initiative, I guess. Please, Boris Bespali, faction of our Ukraine. Boris Jakovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u42	Please pass the word to Valery Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u43	Valerius Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u44	Thank you. Peter Alexiyovich, it would be a good thing if you were still to inform the deputies how the discussion on the budget committee was going on, it was very difficult, and not all the deputies agreed to any cuts in the social guarantees for our voters. Especially considering the fact that the President has signed a new decree to increase wages by 90 per cent to strong structures. But the question I have before you is, how do we deal with this bill, because it includes a number of tax laws. In particular, the excise bill and the bill are related to the abolition of the minimum wage. Shouldn't we do what we always do, first we adopt tax bills, then we adopt social bills, and then there's a budget bill on the basis of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u45	Thank you, Reverend Valery Mikhailovich. I can really confirm that there was very much discussion on the budget committee, and not all agreed on the draft decision on the adoption of the government project on the basis and finding compromise was extremely difficult. And the Committee on Budgets actually commissioned me to announce that it was unacceptable for me to make decisions during the budget year on raising financial security, increasing allowances for individual categories, such as military personnel, by 90 percent, without the consent of either the Supreme Council or the budget or the government or the Ministry of Finance. Because anyway, we just put it down, we end up facing the fact that we're forced or we're not going to execute the decrees that we're going to see for this increase, or these decrees are going to come out without adequate resources. As far as the procedure is concerned. Indeed, we are confident that before the adoption of the Law on Changes to the State Budget, they will have to be voted on. And this is not the competence of the budget committee. I insist. This is the competence of the Committee on Finance and Banking. The corresponding part of this law is the changes to the excise law, which are extremely resourceful. This position was expressed on the committee. And we hope that either we get a proper call to the Cabinet of Ministers, or we try to settle this issue at the second reading stage, when we try to remove this part and put it to a vote separately, before we vote on the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u46	Gregory Kolletnik, European Choice Group, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u47	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I would like first of all not to agree with you that the violation of the bill's review procedure on budget changes has to do with the lack of interest of the people's deputies in considering these changes. Since there were no meetings of the Committees in the previous two weeks, there was no meeting of the Committee on Budgets. But I have a question for you. Paragraph 10 of the amendments to this bill provides for the budget to allow the Cabinet of Ministers to make the purchase of property to the Bank of Ukraine in an order established by legislation of no more than $555 million. Money from sources and so on. The point is that it was the only source provided for by the law adopted by the Supreme Council as the ability of the liquidator to deal with citizens and legal persons by selling this property. So I would like to ask you: can you confirm that by doing so and by allowing such a procedure, we can guarantee that the stolen citizens and the budgetary institutions, who also lost their funds, who were going to go to medical, educational services, will still be returned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u48	Thank you. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Budget Affairs should only consider the bills that have been tabled and officially registered, which is why we have not considered them at our meeting. In line with the commission of the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Conciliation Council of the Heads of the factions to consider the preparation of the agreed project, the working group would be involved. In my statement, I drew the attention of fellow national MPs that the individual members of this working group had never visited this working group before, and that was why there were problems in drafting this harmonized bill. As for the situation with the Bank of Ukraine. Indeed, according to the law that we have adopted, the appropriate schedule of repayments of liabilities to investors of the Bank of Ukraine and the realisation of the assets that are in lieu of the National Bank is not the only source of repayment of this debt to the bank's stolen investors. And the work of the liquidator who has not been able to pay off in a year is not that the third, and even the second, of the investors, I think it should raise a very large number of questions when we, by deforming the only system of the property complex of the Bank of Ukraine, would allow it to be valued by certain regional managers, as we have had, unfortunately, these examples, to implement the single asset complex and thus solve the problems of the individual investor. We believe that it would be in the public interest to preserve the only comprehensive property complex in state property, as evidenced by the decision of the Supreme Council, which was adopted by means of an appropriate decision, to create on this basis what would be required. What will be considered a necessary government, since this will enable us to save huge funds in 2004-2005 to finance the state's capital expenditure on the construction of one or more buildings. So the preservation of this complex and the resolution of this issue can, in our opinion, be supported by the Supreme Council, because in fact the State Budget Act only decides on the mechanism of transfer of property from the National Bank to state ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u49	Thank you, Peter Alexiovich, please sit down. What? No, well, there's a lot of questions written here, but I can't. Oh, from the procedure, please, and Pecklesenko from the procedure, too. Please, the People's Deputy of Vernigor from the procedure. Peter Alexiovich, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u50	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I have submitted to you several times both through the Cabinet, and directly to you, and the faction has submitted to remove the 65th article from the budget, which is an interference in the self-reliant activity. of the trust fund. We gave them the right to self-governance, and we deprive them of it. Right, they can be self-governed by the law themselves, but not by this budget law. Intruding, Peter Alexiovich. You promised me to delete this article and pass it on to the bill, to supplement the Social Insurance Fund Act. So it turns out that we're also running state-of-the-art funds. I'm asking you not to forget again, and please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u51	I promise you, at the second reading stage, we will consider these questions, but I assure you that the solution to this question is not so simple. The point is that hundreds of millions of dollars are being measured for today’s self - control budget. And we've been entrusted with this by the head of the Nightman's Committee, Mikol Petrovich, I would ask if you could meet together and work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u53	And prepare a negotiated decision, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u54	Pussy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u55	Petr Aleksieevich, you remember we are the 11 people and our faction voted in favour of the budget only after you said6 “A technical error has been stolen, a line of 14 million will be.” You can say, please, the name of that rabbi who left our 14 million only two. That's the first one. Can you please get an answer in Zaporozhye for $14 million? And the second question. How do you feel about the proposal to solve the problem of the investors of the Slavyanski Bank under the scheme of the investor of the bank “Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u56	Thank you. The first is about the rabbi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u57	Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u58	I think that this is actually the distribution of state capital is not the powers of the Supreme Council, it's the power of government. And the government really had the opportunity and had to make the right decision after the approval of the list of capital deposits centralized, where financing of the Zaporozhye Bridges would be included. The Committee on Budgets took the appropriate decision to recommend that the proposals be taken into account and sent to the government. I think we will have every opportunity to make the right decision when we discuss the drafting of the bill for the second reading stage. Regarding the Slovenian Bank, I can tell you that we have, unfortunately, not very satisfied with the way or the process of solving the problems of the investors of the Bank "Ukraine" and we have developed proposals for how we can resolve the issues of the investors of the Bank "Slovenianski". We can also count on the stage of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the performances. Stop it. Don't turn. Please, please, there's an order now you're going to be speaking. National MP Baranowski, prepare Carmazin. Follow the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u60	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Today we are looking at the proposed bill for changes to the State Budget. Early in the morning, documents were handed out, and at 16 o’clock we’re looking at them. Do we not exaggerate our ability to evaluate the Cabinet of Ministers as quickly as possible, and say, on Thursday, to vote on their entire law, on which the fate of the entire Ukrainian people depends? The tailor measures seven times and then ends, and we never measure, for we have not seen what to measure, and we are already prepared to be cut. We have only recently experienced the so - called counterfeiting of the 2003 budget. The Regulatory Committee drew the attention of the Supreme Council to non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council when considering any legislation, especially when considering the laws relating to the budget. Therefore, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine proposes not to vote on this Thursday, but to allow the deputies to get to know it in depth, the budget committee to take into account the proposals made by other bills, such as those introduced by Timoshenko, Moroz. To deal with the proposals of all deputies and only then to adopt this law in the following week in the first reading. And by the end of the week, let's say Friday and the second after the bill that we see now, the faction of socialists cannot vote for the following reasons. First. The project does not provide for execution, but rather repeals the minimum wage law from July 1st to July 1st in 237. And understand, the President signed the bill on 237 bracelets. If we vote even in the first reading to abolish 237 dollars, the President may not sign such a law then and accuse us, members of the Supreme Council, that we have abolished 237 dollars that the President wanted to give. The other one. There is no cost distribution project for capital investments. And the deputies voted in favour of the 2003 budget on the promise that their proposals would be taken into account. Third. There is no provision for the allocation of funds to educators to cover debts under judicial decisions. In the Gitomir region, it's about 17 million. Four. Unforeseen costs of equalizing the official ratios of cultural, educational, and medical rates financed by local budgets. The government plans to do so only from July 1st and then from a calculation of 185 dollars and to use the funds allocated. The government is still planning to release the excise stamps with a hologram. As early as the 2003 budget, Pinzenik calculated that it would require an additional cost of about a billion dollars. The question is: Who needs them, and who will print them? It doesn't print them today, let's say the National Bank, but they print, they're already preparing a private structure, and they're betting on 10 million. It's not clear with the property of the former grandmother "Ukraine." First the money was stolen, and now, in our opinion, it could happen to the property itself. So the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is proposing that the property complex of the Bank of Ukraine be transferred to the statutory fund of the Bank of Reconstruction and Development and that we save the property and solve these painful issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u61	Yuri Carmazin, please, the "Our Ukraine" faction, please speak. Prepare Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u62	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I understand you had to bet, gave the word Vladimir Mikhajlovich, but you didn't give a word that you'd be breaking the rules, the budget code, and today we're breaking everything. There's no conclusion, people just got handed over. What do you want to push? Well, not you, but the government wants to push. Let's get this straight. The point is that it is proposed to stop for 2003 the operation of article 63, insert 63, article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003 at the minimum wage level from 1 July 2003 to 237 GW per month. This is what we're proposing to remove. Other things are less and less important. Even though it's important to put half a billion dollars into the budget, it's a bank called Ukraine. I don't think it's the money and it's the mechanism that needs to be paid out of the state budget right now. What? The price of these. Wages. That's what people will tell you today. When you say you won't give them money from July 1st. And the government is saying that today. So you voted for the government program. I didn't vote for this crime program, I'm not responsible for it. It predicted that all of you, along with the President's letter, supported the salary of 237. Today, you're offering one stroke virtually without any estimate of how to destroy it. That's 7 billion dollars. We need to find them. Let's learn from Lukashenko where he found it. And for one factory, he's going to take one and a half billion dollars. What did we sell? And in 10 years of privatization, we sold 6 billion dollars. It's all property! So maybe there's a source? Why don't you guys eat a little bit? Why don't we close the free economic zones now? Why don't we stop working for Uncle Sam and find this money? They can be found with this money. Next. A state that does not finance government capital investments is doomed to have no future. What are you doing, Mr. Janukovich, and today is Mikola Janovich Azarov. You don't finance government capital investments. The Committee on Budget Affairs has agreed on 12 areas. What, a difficult decision to make? But that's a determination, if you have to. State property, you take one night and you sign in five minutes, and here, when you have to finance government investments in 12 areas you've already agreed on 400 million dollars, there's no time. So I think that the budget is presented and prepared irresponsibly, without. And besides, I wanted to ask you a question from the procedure. We're bringing it in. propose to amend the tax system, electricity, income taxation and excise duty laws. What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u63	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u64	No, I'm sorry. Are these the rules of the budget law? These are not the rules of this law. That's why they didn't give me the right words. And we didn't hear the 2002 budget report with you and we're doing everything, so if you'll excuse me, it's my ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u65	Thank you. The Supreme Council is doing the right thing. I wouldn't want to embarrass the Supreme Council here. Taras Cranville, get ready for Stepan Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u66	Dear colleagues, I probably won't be original again, because I'll start with the same. The procedure that we're offered to work with those budget changes just doesn't withstand any criticism. First. They didn't give the MPs in time. There's an excuse that there was work in the districts. There is, for example, a commission to amend the 2003 government budget, which Peter Poroshenko mentioned, was not found or distributed to the members of the commission. When we need to find a board meeting, they find us, there's no problem. There was no distribution on the committees, not even the previous materials. Excuse me, if even a group of deputies who have been assigned to work directly with this have been completely ignored, what reconciliation can be made? Now, with regard to the main point that has already been highlighted, it is the termination of the item on the minimum wage of 237. Let's stop and say that there's not going to be any more of this change. The Supreme Council will not vote on this. And the government should now not be looking for ways to find an excuse that we can't do that, but to look for funds to do that. Is there a problem with finding funds? The problem was already looking for funds at a time when the budget committee insisted that the income could be raised, that it was gone, and now that's where the money came from. Some of the needs that result automatically as the minimum wage rises, some of the reasons why they don’t want to spend money. The President's decree on additional payments to the force, not to the sergeants, not to the younger officers who really need it most, but to all those senior officers who don't have it today. But the tariff grids aren't being taken seriously at all, as far as I could see it, literally in a few hours, this budget that we've been given doesn't look at raising the minimum wage level at all since July 1st. Let's get out of this -- we're going to have to pick it up and look only for that. Where to find more money. You know, the old story is not to steal. Just don't steal. We have enough facts about how we are privatizing and how we are cutting off those potential buyers of property or investors who are willing to give a higher price by pushing them away from the competition. It's not millions anymore, it's already billions of bracelets and billions of dollars. We have excellent examples of how we don't pay taxes in Ukraine and Mikola Janović should know the situation in both the Lviv region and others how companies with billions of dollars of taxes pay. These are absolutely real things that fill the budget. I would like to reiterate that the government has the opportunity to fill the budget in order to make it up to 237 dollars. If we couldn't get out on 237 even, if we really wanted to find those funds, at some point we'd give up as the Supreme Council, in some way we could look at something. But in this case, we just can't open the way for impunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u67	Stepan Gavrish. Democratic Initiatives. You don't? Please, then, Yuri Solomatin. You don't? Vladimir Cherniak. Get ready for Bastris. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! In a state of hard thinking, I went out to this rostrum. On the one hand, the government seems to be formally right. There is no increase in wages in the budget law. But, on the other hand, the Supreme Council cannot go to the conclusion of an active social policy. The Supreme Council passed the law, the President signed it, the people of joy, the people expect to increase the minimum wage not only by 185, but also by 237. What does the government offer? Article 63: “Stop for 2003 action, 42 amendments, Article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the establishment of minimum wage for 2003”. [[on the part of setting the minimum wage from 1 July 2003 237 dollars per month]] This is the first time. And second. The government is trying to find funds to raise the minimum wage to 185 dollars, and with great difficulty. In my opinion, the government is going the wrong way. Costs are, they need to be searched, and this is exactly what we need to focus on: how do we solve the problem of filling the income part of the budget? Where do you get the money? Costs can be taken if we go by making it impossible to hide income from income. If we go through the way of overcoming VAT fraud, that's four billion dollars. Next, there is a huge lack of tax and regulatory energy. Next, the taxpayer is now 16 to 17 billion dollars. Why does the government not take extraordinary steps to reduce or eliminate even taxpayers? 16-17 billion dollars! Some pay intolerable taxes, others avoid paying taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich, time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u70	Let the government give us a program to fight the undernourished. And finally, privatization. Much of government property is owned outside the privatization process, let the government fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u71	Ivan Bastriga faction "Ukraine" please. Prepare Gregory Omelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, respectable Nikolai Janović, distinguished President of the Supreme Council! We have spoken ambiguously and on more than one occasion about the problem that has arisen long ago, historically faced development in the Zaporozhye of the transport system. A repeated visit, such as that of the President of Ukraine last year, a visit to the Special Commission on Ecology, which dealt with the problems of the island of Hortica and a specific study of the Dnieper transport programme, a retreat meeting of the factions of our regions led to what we have identified, a solution made on the basis of the President's instructions last year, was a government decision to proceed with the problem. What's the problem? Today, history has shown that a dam, a transport crossing through a dam on consoles. The consoles do not provide for heavy loads of transport, trolleybuses and so on. The second transport bridge, the bridge of Premzeński, was built only for the carriages with horses. And, of course, 200,000 inhabitants who are behind the two Dniepras. All transportation from northern Ukraine from central Ukraine to the south goes through these two arteries. Any stop even this old guard leads to a motion paralysis for several hours. And Nikolai Janović, respected, we do not understand, as colleagues and many fellow deputies, we do not understand when we adopted the budget, the decision of the “Region” faction was the decision of the Committee on Budgets, as reflected in the transcript. And before we voted in favour of the 2003 budget, you and I shook hands with each other in the presence of the Prime Minister and decided that yes, this problem would begin to find a solution at least. There will be, of course, a billion of you, the answer, but the city will continue to deal with this problem, and the city will make sure that the journey through Zaporozhye is paid through this bridge. Taking the path of attracting a foreign investor, but this problem needs to be resolved. Here, too, the problem when we sounded this solution is construction, 13 years of water is being built throughout the South, and 97 per cent of it is missing 3.4 million, specifically for the resort city of Berdjansk. We said yes, we'd solve that problem. Here is the problem of Stepnoorsk, which we have also heard from the President in 2002, it is. And I absolutely agree, and our faction will fully support the decision that will be taken and left by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u73	Grigory Omelchenko, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, will be followed by Michael Hapochka, the People's Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u74	Gregory Omelchenko, Association of Ukrainian Officers, Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. A few common figures that might help the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the strong ministries and authorities to see where the funds are. In Ukraine's private foreign accounts, I emphasize that there are currently almost $10 billion of U.S. citizens abroad, outside banking control. So it's in cash, there's not a penny in the budget, it's in Ukraine, if you can say, in hands, almost $12 billion. In the past four years, with the approval of President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine himself, he is washing away and returning to Ukraine no less than $4 billion a year. The total amount that is now accumulated in foreign accounts and working for the national economy of those countries is at least $30 billion. The Attorney General's Office has specific names of officials who are involved in the theft of currency and in the currency accounts of those funds or their families, beginning with President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine and ending with many national deputies of Ukraine from the so-called majority. There will be a subject of a separate conversation, the name of all these 12 national MPs. It's about the President's Office and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That's not what this is about. That's where you can look for funds to fill your budget. I am addressing you with my distinguished colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers on behalf of the four national deputies of the Ukraine of Domansk, Kuzmuk, Rudzikowski and myself, who have submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Bill 2644, which provides for the repeal of article 59 of the Law of Ukraine on the State Budget, which has abolished the social guarantees that have been provided for military and law enforcement officials to violate the Constitution, law enforcement, the Constitutional Court's decision. And it's more painful, literally, for 30 seconds, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, because I'm speaking out of four people. How was the Supreme Council of Ukraine used? The Supreme Council of Ukraine has placed three trusts in the Cabinet of Ministers, which has promised to develop a system of compensation for these social guarantees and to accept violations of the Constitution of State budgets for 2000, 2001 and 2003. When the State Budget was adopted for 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not go into violation of the Constitution and preserved these social guarantees because three months later there were elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and when the budget for this year was approved, the Supreme Council gave in to its principles and violated the Constitution of Ukraine. I ask the Committee on Budget Issues to include in the vote a bill of 2644, which has been tabled by four national deputies, which provides for the return of social benefits and guarantees to law enforcement officials and military personnel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u75	Mikola Hapoczka, National Choice MP. Prepare Gabrielek Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u76	Dear colleagues! A balanced and realistic budget is a prerequisite for macroeconomic stability and economic development. Lessons, when the budget was balanced, were the pace of real GDP growth. In the last year, an unrealistic budget has resulted in excessive government demand cuts and slow economic growth more than double deflation. The new government supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken appropriate measures to improve the implementation of the budget. The 2003 budget adopted has become the most realistic in all years. During the four months of the current year, Ukraine’s general budget income plan has been implemented by 103.3 percent, and software expenditures are fully financed. As a result, domestic demand rose to 7 percent in the 1st quarter of the year, and economic growth accelerated to the only and best indicator in the SND. At the same time, real wages increased by 17.6 percent. But overall positive figures hide problems. There is a growing gap in wages between industrial and budgetary workers, resources. Unsecured increase in minimum wage is a threat to the budget. I don't know what We need to adjust fiscal policies in a way that ensures stability, contributes to sufficient income growth and stimulates economic development. Procrastination with decision - making can be much deeper as the future will be much more difficult to solve. It is therefore necessary not to delay the adoption of a law amending the 2003 budget, but to promote its adoption as quickly as possible. Let us not wait for the social and economic problems to get worse, but move from a fire-fighting policy to a pre-emptive policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u77	Thank you, Mikolayovich. Vassil Gavriluk, please, members of the People's Government. Prepare Gurey's Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u78	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The People's Government Group understands the Government's motives for making changes to the 2003 State Budget, but a number of provisions of the bill need to be clarified and clarified, which will give more stability to the budget process and more constructiveness to the bill itself. The question of suspending the minimum wage law for 2003 needs to be addressed most carefully, since such a decision significantly undermines the social orientation of the budget. In addition, we need to determine how long the law is suspended. Let's think about it and make a decision. The law takes effect, for example, on October 1st or December 1st, taking into account the positive trends in the development of the domestic economy and the projected increase in the budget. We need to take on a specific responsibility to the people. In this respect, it would be appropriate for the government to propose a mechanism to make changes with a view to bringing the budget into line with the Ukrainian Minimum Wages Act. I think the bill should clearly provide for a rule that increasing budget revenues should be directed primarily towards raising the minimum wage. Then everything will be in place. Not forgetting the second paragraph of the Minimum Wages Act, which clearly states "to make additional grants to local budgets to increase the minimum wage for budget workers to reconcile." We believe that the increase in excise duty on tobacco products is justified and acceptable, for the relationship between the cost of cigarettes and the number of smokers in Ukraine is obvious. In addition, in the future, the size of taxation of tobacco products in Ukraine should be brought into line with European standards. Regarding the proposed changes in the cost section. In addition, almost 661 million dollars have been allocated for the needs of the APC state, and certainly much support for the village, but it needs to be used in a master's way. The main part, 576 million dollars, is projected to be directed "to take action to overcome the effects of natural disasters in agriculture and the development of agrarian markets." This formulation is too hazy. These costs should be specifically and unambiguously distributed in the areas, in the direction of destination, to be targeted and targeted. The purchase must take place exclusively in the grain manufacturer if these costs are to be specifically used. From our point of view, the proposal to reduce the cost of developing a material and technical base is not relevant today. In view of the above, the People's Government MP Group considers it appropriate to draft a bill. I would like to add that we must adhere to the budget code and the Supreme Council Rules, which will not allow us to abuse and violate the laws that exist today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u79	Basil Gureyev, faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. Vassil Nadrag will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the question today is very practical. Today, the government, which we have put our trust in for almost a year, is taking concrete steps. It makes changes to the budget and it's a positive, it's the current work of every government that gets confidence. I mean, honourable deputies, today the problem is how much we trust these steps, how much we appreciate them. In my opinion, the first question we need to ask the government is how much we solve the social problems that exist in the state today. And I think we need to make a decision as soon as possible on the social protection of teachers, doctors, cultural workers, science and other budget workers. That is, what is being offered today. It should be noted that following our adoption last December of the Ukrainian law on the establishment of minimum wage for 2003 there has been a significant violation of the approach to determining the wages of skilled professionals and lower-skilled workers. And that's a very practical, life issue that we have to solve. And only a parliament can decide on the proposal of the government. The lack of allocations in the public budget has prevented decision-making on at least partial sorting of the wage level of employees in the entire budget area. This is a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian State Budget 2003 Act, which will allow for a renewed ratio of tariff rates, salaries for budget workers and a substantial increase in the level of pay. In particular, the proposed increase in labour costs under the General Fund of the State Budget will allow for the restoration of the employment ratio of May 1, the current year, resulting from the minimum wage of 165 dollars. And from July 185 dollars, that is to raise wages from 1 May to 17.9 percent, and from July to 12.1 percent. It has to be said that the government has already passed a decree on a significant increase in salary and tariff rates in the budget area. However, it is supposed to take effect after the law has been enacted, this law that we are considering today. Dear colleagues, these are political issues. It has a social dimension for our citizens. I believe that these steps of the government must be supported. I want to pause for almost one minute, or just a few seconds, on questions about the real sector. I like that the government today has drawn attention to the structure of the real economy, the energy dependency of other countries, energy efficiency. This refers to the question of supporting the development of wind energy and so forth. I believe that this proposal, this law of government, must be supported. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u81	Yes, Basil Nadrag, please, People's Choice Group. Sergey Doroguntsov will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, as manager of the Retired and Retired Pensions Subcommittee, I would like to discuss this subject in the context of today's discussion, especially as it has already sounded. There are two myths that sometimes make a sound in this room. First myth: The Pension Fund has so much money that they don't know where they're going. Dear colleagues, let us be responsible in such statements. You don't have to come up with what you don't have, and that's more to say, translate from a headache to a healthy one. The second myth is that today, and this thought has already sounded, let's talk about budgets, and we'll deal with the Pension Fund budget. First and foremost: The pension fund, like all other public trust funds, is regulated by individual laws. These laws contain, who and how the budget is approved, how the budget is charged and how it is used, respectively. To date, our desire or desire for those who would like to command it has been concrete. If, in 2001, and in 2002, the State budget fully reimbursed the Pension Fund for all the amounts, this amount was not available for 800 million dollars in the 2003 budget. We are so fond of talking to you today, and we very often hear and agree that pensions today do not correspond to any basic subsistence minimum, and yet today we have not added nearly 800 million bracelets from the budget. And this is the basis for increasing today's pensions. I want to say that, and once again, that the previous two years have been fully restored. Today, while using casusistism, certain gaps in the law, the Pension Fund is not fully reimbursed for money, and these amounts amount to about 3-4 per cent of the increase in pensions. Therefore, when it is said today that pensions should be increased, we must first understand that increasing pensions is only through the collection and increase of resources. Therefore, the idea expressed today by our distinguished chairman of the budget committee that, in the context of the preparation of the 2004 budget resolution, we will again, or someone else, wish to arrange, distribute, excuse, the situation and solve the problem of financing the pension fund from the State budget, as we did in 2003, I must say, this cannot be done because today 14.5 million pensioners depend on, to some extent, our decisions, including budget decisions. Therefore, all of our best wishes must be directed at one thing: what is stated must be budgeted, and where necessary, let us work there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u83	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction, prepare the Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! I represent the faction of the Company of Ukraine and I want to emphasize, as you always say, that I mean you, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, that on Thursday we will determine by vote. But what I'm saying right now is that our faction is going to take a firm stand against any reduction in funding for social programs. They are still circumcised, as the people say. I'd just like to take a break on some of the questions. Let's say I haven't had a clear question in five years, why does the President categorically deny that the Court of Auditors has the right to check the income portion of the budget? Expensive -- please, at that low cost they're digging up, they're looking for something, there's half a million, there's 10 million, and there's no way to get close to the income. All of our attempts to include a similar article with you in the bill on the House of Accounts were shattered by the President's unwavering will. Why? Because we don't need to know what kind of income lies in the top of our nation. And they're not small. Some of them have been talked about here. I'd like to say that, well, you know, you know, when there was a pay collapse, there was certainly a drop in productivity at the same time. Then they said, as we work, we live. That's about what we have. And I want to say here that we work much better than we do. I mean our people. We, our productivity is much higher than what we get. Compare, the productivity of the work we're lagging behind the so-called capitalist states at 3, 3, 3, 5, 4 times, and the wages at tens of times. That's the model we have. And it needs to be changed, including in the state budget. We have to make sure that we approve the minimum wage, so we've saved the one that was budgeted by the President himself. In addition, make sure that the ratio in the tariff network is maintained so that the distance between the minimum wage and the last rate of the tariff network is maintained. I want to say that we have huge opportunities to increase budget allocations for social programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u85	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich, please, Suprun Ludmila Pavlovna, faction of the People's Democratic Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u86	Ludmila's wife, the faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear colleagues, right now at today’s meeting, we are on schedule to listen to changes to the State Budget Act. Could this bill be adopted on the basis of us and can we be as national MPs, representatives of different factions, MPs to accept this project in the first reading. Clearly, before this bill, we have a lot of observations. But I want to mark the next one. First of all, the Cabinet of Ministers proposed a change in the revenue portion of the State Budget for 2003, which you and I practically supported when we voted for the first time in the second reading of the State Budget Act. In fact, 80 percent of our government's proposals and proposals coincide. Are our proposals for expenditure compatible? We would like to point out that these changes are made to the law, first of all, in order to implement our commission with you through the Minimum Wages Act, increasing its level to 185 from 1 January to 237 from 1 July. That is, the government is actually doing our job. Sadly, though, he lost one important detail. After all, we also offered to provide special transfers, subsidies for local budgets. And so, as an option in proposing the adoption of this law in the first reading, we consider it necessary to stress, first of all, the directing of additional transfers to local budgets. This is going to be the object of compromise. How many transfers do we need to make? On May 16, there will be a Round Table, where there will be representatives of regional authorities, local executives, national deputies, scientists, representatives of the public. The subject of these Round Table hearings is the following. We need to determine what resources today need to be directed towards local budgets, and we will be working on a committee to channel funds at the level of the state budget, to raise the minimum wage level in order to implement the Minimum Wages Act. A government subject to this initiative. And that's why, given that our income propositions match, we consider it possible to adopt this law in the first reading, it's essential to refine it and give the country a finally agreed decision that the government is working on today and the Supreme Council. This raises the minimum wage level with the obligation to maintain the ratios between the different wages of different categories of citizens. Otherwise, we can balance all of them with one of the wages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u87	Thank you, Sophia Pavlovna. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 has been completed. Again, Sergey Ivanovich, we will make a decision Thursday on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues! Today we were to consider a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. As you know, this question is extremely mature and painful. There was an appropriate commission for the working group, corresponding to the committee’s instructions. The Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the Budget Committee, prepare and submit this bill. Unfortunately, however, there is no draft of this document for today. So let's do it this way. Today, we will decide that next Tuesday the committee will necessarily submit the bill in line with the government. It must be a common document. Let's take another look at one of the draft laws, dear colleagues. This is about making changes to paragraph 22. 3 Article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income for Criminal Enforcement Workers. As we agreed, a reduced procedure. I invite the head of the Department of State to report on the execution of the sentences of Vladimir Anatoliyovich Ljovczyn. Volodymyr Anatoliyovich, I ask for a very brief explanation of this bill within three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u88	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Prodigious national MPs, present! Designed by the Ukrainian Department of State for Execution of Penalties, the draft law amending article 22, paragraph 22, of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income is in line with interested ministries. The main purpose of this bill is to extend to persons of the ordinary and primary composition of the criminal enforcement system a provision of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of Business Income, which provides for the financing of housing and the acquisition of housing for military personnel at the expense of the funds received from the State Treasury authorities for the special budget accounts of one and a half percent of the income tax paid to enterprises. The need to expand the number of persons who are affected by this rule is due to the transfer in 1998-1999 of the supervisory and security functions of the criminal enforcement system and to the transition of nearly 20,000 military personnel from the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to the enforcement agencies, the need for the preservation of the benefits they had during the service in the internal armed forces has arisen. In fact, the Department became the successor of the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the housing of former members of the internal forces, who were transferred for further service in the criminal execution system and lost the status of military personnel. In addition, more than 360 former Afghan soldiers are serving in organs and institutions. It should be noted that the service in the organs and institutions involved in the execution of sentences is extremely complex, involving considerable physical, mental overload, but it is vital for the rule of law and for the security of the State. And workers are entitled to recognition and a just reward for their work. The numerous appeals and complaints of former members of the internal forces regarding violations of their rights, which they were guaranteed when transferred for further service to the criminal enforcement system, initiated a solution to this issue by amending the Ukrainian Law on Business Income Taxation. The bill aims to implement the existing laws of Ukraine and other acts to assist in housing workers and their families. The adoption of the bill will enable employees to live in institutions to execute sentences, create appropriate socio-economic conditions for them, reduce social tension, strengthen the professional core of the staff by highly qualified professionals, and promote the prestige of the service in organs and institutions for the execution of sentences. The adoption of the law does not require additional budget spending. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine determines in a general conclusion that the bill can be adopted as a basis in the first reading. Similar decisions were made by the Committees on Construction, Transport, and Communications and on Finance and Banking. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u89	Thank you. Please sit down, Vladimir Anatolyevich. From the committee, the profile committee, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u90	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill relating to the amendment of article 22, paragraph 22.3, of the Law on Taxation of Business Income was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Banking. As has already been pointed out, the bill proposes to extend to members of the ordinary and primary criminal-executive system the operation of paragraph 22.3 of the Ukrainian Law on Taxation of the Income of Enterprises, which provides for the financing of housing and the acquisition of housing for military personnel at the expense of the funds received from the State Treasury authorities for special budgetary accounts, a half percent of the income tax paid to the budget. The need to list the persons to whom this law applies is due to the fact that, in connection with the transfer of the functions of supervision and protection of the criminal enforcement system and the respective military personnel from the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine to the State Department for the enforcement of penalties, it was necessary to preserve before the termination of the contract the benefits they had during the service in the internal forces. In addition, when discussing the bill, it is proposed that national deputies and members of the committee include in the list of persons designated by paragraph 22.3 of the law by the members of the ordinary and primary criminal system a similar category of persons of the internal affairs of Ukraine and their families. The noted remarks were made in the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. It should be noted that the adoption of the law is proposed as of January 1, 2004. Today, article 63 of the Ukrainian Law, which has already been mentioned, paragraph 22.3 of the Ukrainian Act on Taxation of Business Income has been suspended. In doing so, the 2003 budget for the State budget for Ukraine for the construction or acquisition of housing for military personnel is included in the protected articles of the General Fund of the State Budget. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted in the first reading and, in general, that it be included in the text of the list of persons defined in paragraph 1 of paragraph 22.3. - in addition to the members of the military and the principal composition of the criminal system, as well as the members of the ordinary and primary bodies of internal affairs and their families. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u91	Yes, thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, we need to discuss two for two against. Please, is Yuri Carmazin there? Then please, Melniczuk Mikhailo. Remove your computer’s name quickly there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, since there is no Carmazin, two orders from Melniczuk, please. Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The region of Chernobyl. Dear Vladimir Anatoliyovich, I've been very familiar with the bill, and of course it's a page and a half, and I'm willing to support this bill, because it's really about protecting the crime scene workers and their families. When it comes to solving the real housing problem of this category of workers, and if it helps to stabilize the professional core of the staff of organs and the execution of sentences, a clear channeling of funds will be to implement the programme that the department has adopted on the issue of housing for this category of citizens and workers. The need to support this bill is obvious. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will be determined on Thursday as we vote. Personally, I think this bill will have to be supported, but, Vladimir Anatolyevich, I would like to address you, and pay attention. If it's about protecting your employees, it's a normal thing, but when your institutions are talking about Sokirian ITK, they took 42,000 of their own funds into one of the enterprises, they're their own workers, and so far they're not accounted for, 42 thousand, they're going, take care of, please, why the Sokirian ITK leadership doesn't pay attention to the appeal of the National MP, the appeal of more than 30 employees, they don't pay people back. It's their money. It's about the Novoselicko Entrepreneurship Meat Bukovina. And one more thing, Vladimir Mihajlovich, since I still have a rule, I would like you to have a bill on the court system of Anishuk and Melniczuk, please put it on or on Friday first. For a month, the draft legislation will be completed, and there will be no courtship. Finally, this bill needs to be adopted in order to further develop the qualifications of the committees. Today, what's being done in the courts, most of the judges are practically not doing justice because they don't have the capacity because they don't have the proper status as approved by the Supreme Council or otherwise. I would ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to pay attention to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u93	I'm asking the Secretariat what can be done, and I'm going to look at this bill. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, please. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, you'll be performing later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u94	I'd like to say two words about first. Of course, it is good that we care for those who protect prisoners, but I think we should say a few words about those who are protected. I was happy to hear that there was a desire to improve living conditions, to create opportunities, and so forth. Let's do the resolution, Mr. Lewochkin. I wish you'd listened very carefully. You hear I'm happy about that. To improve the conditions for keeping those who are still not condemned, but only under investigation. When they finally take off the cover on the windows that the people call bayane. I mean, what it takes to do that is to at least allow sunlight to penetrate it. And all this talk about what's going to be caused by some higher conditions, by other things, I don't want to hear it, it's not a desire or a fear. And without warning, we need to treat people like humans, these people are not yet to blame. They will be guilty only after they have been found guilty by a court of law. Only the court determines their guilt and why they are held in conditions worse than those condemned. Why is it that no one thinks that they have lost normal living conditions, they have been moved into inhuman living conditions? And the usual thing is, it's going to be hard to explain, and we have over 300,000 prisoners, and those who just came through the insulators are very much, if our Prime Minister went through these insulators, you know that. So here we have to remember that, but as far as we're concerned, whether we support this bill or not, the faction is usually going to be decided on Thursday, we're going to vote. But I wanted it to be easy for this vote to be an incentive for you and an incentive for the entire criminal-executive system to finally come back face to face with those you protect. There are people there, and people who happen to be there, and because of political motivation. At present, 14 political prisoners are being held and all are well aware that as the political regime changes, these political prisoners will be free and those who imprison them will be under investigation. So I'm convinced that this stimulus should be for show. And to conclude, I would like to refer here again to the leadership that we need to put in place a bill that regulates the presence of people in the detention facility, although, in fact, on Friday second, because we, Vladimir Mikhailovich, cannot go back to this bill. It's always floating somewhere in the last place, and we can't discuss and vote, I believe, an extremely necessary bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u95	Please, Vladimir Cherniak. Yeah, we've got two pros, if we're up against it, so let's go "against it."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, we're discussing a rather specific bill, a need in which, in my opinion, there is, this is where Deputy School spoke of the fact that we are convicted in difficult circumstances, and that is indeed the case. We are still far away from the conditions in which we are condemned in European countries, where they have separate cameras with baths, TVs, air - conditioners. But by the way, we have a convicted person getting paid, no less than pensioners to keep the convicted person. This should also be taken into account in our reality of the month. But I think we need to ask about improving the work of the criminal execution system as a whole, and in particular about improving the living conditions of employees of the criminal execution system. They also have, indeed, a heavy ministry, a hard job, and they usually perform their duties conscientiously. That is why we need to take care of them and how we can provide housing. Clearly, the state of the budget cannot finance this, it has no funds, and it cannot provide housing for free, as it was in Soviet times. In this regard, it is suggested that we get out of the situation. The bill is about financing housing and acquiring housing by the employees of the criminal enforcement system on the basis of budgeted costs by counting half the profits of enterprises that direct this revenue to the budget. This way, it's kind of a compromising path. I don't think it's effective, but at least it's a palatif, which gives a certain opportunity, gives hope to the employees of the criminal-executive system, at least in terms of getting housing. Today it has been said that this does not require payment from the budget. I don't think we can say that clearly, because in the end, budget cuts. But I think that's the way we should go. I think that in the first reading we can support this bill, taking into account the suggestions that have been made, the ones that we will make in the process of preparing for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u97	Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u98	I'd like to immediately divide two points on this bill, which I'm willing to support, which I do have a claim about. The bill, indeed, is fundamentally simple and in the context of it, will obviously have to be voted for, but it is the granting of benefits and any social guarantees on a professional basis that is, in itself, criminal and unacceptable. And that's why we're going to have to go back to the basic law that we're now amending and making changes over time to remove that notion. We should provide assistance, benefits, and so on only for those who are recognized for their social status and status as underage. As far as this bill specifically applies, the amendments are concerned. Indeed, according to the logic of executives who are former employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who were completely subject to this law and who, in changing their legal status and losing their military status, did not in fact change the conditions and characteristics of the work, would obviously be subject to the same law. So I'm obviously going to vote in favour of this law, but I would ask the Supreme Council once again to return to it. And two side effects, which, for me, are definitive. One point was already mentioned by Andrew School. If we go to this law, let's count it as an advance, and we're still going to demand it for that, and this is where the government has to be the initiator, because it has to do all the proper calculations, we don't have that information, in order to carry out the reconfiguration of existing prisons, especially previous imprisonment, in order to create normal human conditions there. Let's take into account what kind of investment is needed there and what might be the mechanisms for making this. And as far as this bill is concerned, it has one threatening point. This bill can be used, not by such a regular and junior officer’s staff, but by a higher officer’s warehouse to build his own villas and so forth. So I'm also very much asking that proper control be put in place when this law is implemented and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u99	Dear National Deputies! In order for us to complete our full-time workday for 30 seconds, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u100	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Let's think about what we're offered. In principle, it seems a good thing to extend to those working in the penitentiary system the operation of this law, paragraph 22. 3 Article 22 of the Law on Taxation of Business Income. But let's see what's going on there. Military personnel, about 100,000 without flats. Police officers are the same. Is that the way out? We're expanding this glove now. I'm here to give you a place to live. Only that's not the way out of position right now. Now we're putting, pushing each other together and increasing the queue where it is. So this is a question that needs to be resolved, but it's not at the expense of it. I don't think it's a way out of the situation, people work hard, specifically, they work with a specific contingent, because we have about 200,000 people. And I think the government issue needs to be resolved separately by funding the criminal enforcement system of employees and they need to be provided at a decent level, but not from this glove, from another source of expenditure. If you want, even from the State Budget Act, where we are now making changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the head of the Committee, Vasil Onopenko, insists that we briefly review the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment and the Criminal Procedure Code. In this regard, I ask your permission to continue your work for 15 minutes. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you, dear colleagues! This is the bill or amendments to the Law on previous imprisonment, which was just mentioned here. And that's very important. To me, the National Deputies of Levcun, Seminoga, have made appropriate changes, leading to the fact that all restrictions on keeping watch are derived from only one goal — previous imprisonment, restrictions on movement, and communication. We know that today citizens who are detained and in pretrial detention or who are often said to be in detention are in very difficult conditions. And Vladimir Anatoliyovich Ljovczyn knows about it, and we know it. Thus, adjustments can be made without spending a lot of money at all. That is to say, we suggest that those who are accused or suspected of committing economic crimes are kept separate from others who are under guard, such as robbery, and other such crimes against citizens. The rights of persons taken into custody, for example, should have the right to an immediate report on the motives of arrest, detention, prosecution, knowledge of their rights, and so forth, to purchase food, items of primary necessity, writing devices, newspapers, books, and so forth. To use televisions, radio sets, refrigerators, bed linens, they should be entitled to an eight - hour sleep during nighttime nighttime during nighttime lighting, and other such rights — that is, that they should have a more liberal regime. A person taken into custody is entitled to a date with close relatives — mother, father, husband, wife, children, siblings, grandchildren, grandparents, adoptive parents, adopted once a week for up to 24 hours, for an intimate date with his wife or husband. The administration of the institution must ensure that conditions are met. It is also about changing the article’s provisions: Where should appropriate complaints and applications be addressed? Today, these statements are transmitted to the administrations of the place of previous imprisonment. We suggest adding this article to the proper position that either to the court or to the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. These and other positions, they're liberalized by legislation. We need to keep in mind that we are individuals. They're being held in detention cells. not recognized as committing a crime. It's a presumption of innocence. So I ask you to support this important bill. You know that appropriate sanctions have already been applied to Ukraine today. There are six lawsuits, and the European Court has satisfied these very motives for improper detention in places of deprivation, as well as in investigators. Therefore, I think it is your responsibility to make appropriate changes that will improve the situation of these people. The guilty party will then be able to take appropriate action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u103	Have a seat, please. The word is given to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on the legislative provision of the law enforcement activities of School Andriy Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u104	Thank you. Well, I'd like to go on with what Vasil Vasilovich did. The fact is that the conditions for holding people in a detention facility and people convicted are not equal, and this inequality goes towards violating the rights of people held in a detention facility. Absurd, it would seem, in the detention facility, there are innocent people who are not yet found guilty, but only the court determines in us, well, and here, indeed, is the presumption of innocence. People who are found guilty are punished and held in better conditions. Why, why we have this inequality, and maybe that's why we have a lot of people wanting to be punished by being in a detention center. What does that mean? Well, first of all, the most important principle is that the person who's in the detention unit has no right. A date with a loved one. Prisoners have. And I'm told that you understand the uncreated conditions, the conditions can be created, the desire can be created, everything goes in sequence, the law is passed, and then the conditions are created, there is never a reverse, there is never a condition, and then the law can be passed. Here, on the contrary, we must be initiators; we must be pushers of the human attitude toward those who are very often found not guilty. And it is very often necessary for the State to pay compensation for the unlawful detention of the prisoner under the conditions they were in. The second and certainly not the most important in the situation, there is a person who is under investigation. She has to keep working with documents, materials, work with her lawyer, and defend herself. It just has to be isolated from society and no more, it doesn't have to be punished in a detention facility. Today’s conditions, I am forced to claim that a person feels punished and stricken in his rights more than the person in prison. And believe me, there's no weakening, a man who's guilty, his judgment admits, he's going to go to the right place, and there's going to be his punishment. And it's going to be an investigative isolation, of course, but it's just a court decision. And if the court justifies, who, where does the girl of those years that man has spent there, many of them because of the negligence of the investigating authorities, of others, for political reasons at last? So I don't think there are any other options here to support this bill. He simply takes away this inequality between those who are already imprisoned and punished and those who are imprisoned but not punished, they are simply isolated from society. And they need to create all possible, once again, legally prescribed conditions. Second, one last nuance. They can tell me that, and the wife will communicate with him, and at the same time, she can somehow influence the course of the investigation. There is now a position that we have adopted in the walls of this Parliament that allows a wife to be a protector, a wife, a mother, a father, a brother. Please use these connections, but on the other hand, when. I'm sorry, for a few seconds, when a person is able to communicate with his family: husband and wife, wife and husband. I'll be right with you. The committee decided to support this proposed bill. And I suggest and urge you all to support this room on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u105	Let us move on to the discussion with a reduced procedure. The word is given to Yuri Carmazin. Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u106	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The noble people of Ukraine! I'd like us to look at everything clearly, not just to solve a question altogether. Even though our Prime Minister has twice been in places of deprivation, he's had a chance to be there three times, even though we have to think that we're proposing today. First. It is suggested that the right of those who are on watch for a date once a week for 24 hours and an intimate date with their wife, husband, and 5 hours of length be anticipated. I have calculated that an increase of 60 percent in the number of housing units in previous prisons is expected. It's going to cost 971 million dollars. Let's figure out if we've solved all the questions in the state. You and I have adopted the Criminal Code, which we have provided, except for the deprivation of liberty, the restriction of will, the conditional punishment, the correctional work, the arrest, and so forth. We accepted it all. We democratized the code three times, three times. Let's see how the criminal world responded to that. Did he become more noble? Is there less delinquency? No, it's not. And we're still going. We say, let them breathe out of hunger, because a billion needs to be used, but better conditions. Excuse me, Your Honor! I distinguish between where a crime is committed and where there are usually only people in previous prisons who have committed serious crimes. Major crimes. If not, this is a lack of law enforcement. These misdeeds need to be tackled. On the line of the prosecution, and on the line of the courts. Of course, I was studying today what I did with the vice-deputy summons in the Dnipropetrov region -- the verdict. It was illegal for a man to be convicted, but it was true that he would not be deprived of his will. And now they're figuring out why there are, what are the reasons for what's standing there. Next. I'd like to take a closer look at the proposals. The proposed changes in the part of an intimate date run counter to article 162 of the Criminal Procedure Code, because there is no such date or question as to who should give it. Next. We don't take into account what the Civil Code says about formal or civil marriage, but we're still going to have to deal with these issues and these are very serious questions that are going to arise. I think the question of blowing up 1 billion dollars isn't in time. But I'm here to democratize the system of punishment and increase the number of dates, but with the possibilities that the state has for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u107	Ivan Verni Dubov, please. John's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u108	Indeed, the conditions are bad. He who does not know has not been there himself has heard a report from the Authorized Agent of human rights, Carpathian. But "scissors stretch through their petticoats." If we can't give that minimum wage to the people who have already voted, of course we need to look at these things a little more realistically. Unfortunately, the proposed project cannot be supported today for the following reasons. You know, according to the Transitional Provisions of the Constitution, a system of pretrial investigation and the introduction of laws regulating its functioning are now being established. In particular, according to the Supreme Council, a working group of highly qualified specialists and law enforcement scientists has been set up to develop new criminal and procedural legislation aimed at strengthening the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. Moreover, the Supreme Council has recently passed a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Code, which separate, most important of its standards are brought into line with the new Criminal Code of Ukraine, which allows for the conduct of pretrial investigations according to the requirements of today. The bill provides for an unmotivated and unwarranted radical change of regime and conditions. However, the drafters did not take into account that the proposed changes require significant additional financial costs and do not indicate their source of income, but require nearly a billion dollars. Unfortunately, the implementation of this bill is far beyond the economic capacity of a state that is financially unable to provide the necessary conditions. The reporter spoke of the need for a date and so forth, but he did not really say that 24 hours, which European or world legislation foresees such a date. What can be done on a date of 24 hours? That's what the bill can be called otherwise, turning our penitentiary institutions into a sanatorium or an intimate date without taking many positions into account. I think that this bill can now be put on a committee that we've adopted a temporary special commission on the future, led by Yukhnovsky, that would be really logical and appropriate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two have opposed this law. I believe that John's Sergey Anatolyevich is against this law too. Who's in? One. Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you as humanists and to those present and to those who vote on Thursday. This bill is aimed at humanizing the conditions of pretrial detention. And that's absolutely logical and correct. Indeed, there is a contradiction, an unwarranted contradiction that needs to be removed. A more severe punishment is prior imprisonment than imprisonment. Is that okay? Moreover, there are often innocent people there, and the court must prove them guilty. What we may have reason to keep in the previous imprisonment of those who have not been judged by the court. In this case, I think Karmazin was acting as a prosecutor. Mr. Yuri, it is not excluded that you will find yourself in a previous prison, and then what will you say? And you'll be very sorry that you didn't support this bill. I think about it, for example, and I care, and I think you should do it. Regarding Verni Dubov, he said he had a date there for 24 hours. If you were there, you wouldn't get a date - 24 hours. And you'd ask for more. I understand that these are the details that can then be corrected in preparing for the second reading. I agree with you that there is a question of funding, and I agree with Karmazin. It's a serious thing to fund the improvement of these conditions from where, how. But it's still conceptual, it's not about funding. Let's at least accept it as a conceptual, framework law, a declarative much in order to testify to this problem, to try to regulate it legislatively, to take the first step on this path, and then, really, to think about the accounts, and the specific things that are not solved here. I also don't think this bill is a masterpiece, but I think it's a step in the right direction, and I suggest we support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u111	Thank you. Carmazin’s replica. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u112	I, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Dear National Deputies! I don't think my colleague Cherniak thought when he said such a thing that someone could sit down from the deputies and so on. I want to tell everyone that, first of all, they're not waiting, and second of all, I want to say that today we've done everything we can with you to democratize the Criminal Code. And 212 in encouraging by. tax evasion, 175 on non-payment of wages, and so on. Today, in places where people are deprived of their will, there are mostly people, except political ones, who all know that full political affairs on March 9 are largely for violent crimes. Our job is to make the system work differently. I want to make a point, not to make any examples. I have great respect for my colleague Black, but I don't think he's the best choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The vote will take place on Thursday. At this evening’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., plenary meetings. Good-bye.
