ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your places of work. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:27]] Registered -352 352 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine is involved in our work, members of the government present, heads of central executives. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Melnik Mikoliyyyevich, who was 60 years old. Let's welcome him and wish him well. [[Applause]] Mikola Eutyhiyevich is awarded the highest prize of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will be given separately in a solemn setting. [[Applause]] Today is the birthday of our colleague Isaiah Leonidas Alexiyovich, and let us welcome him as well as Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! In line with the Rules today, the Supreme Council takes decisions. You have a meeting schedule for Thursday. A draft decision on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of Melniczuk as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian policy issues is under consideration. Please, Valentin Grigorovich, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u2	Dear colleagues! On April 2nd, the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and the Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council reviewed and supported the statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk, to move him from the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. The committee has brought to the attention of the Supreme Council a draft of an appropriate decision of the Supreme Council, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u3	Valentin Grigorovitch, is that how we vote for the Supreme Council? Dear National Deputies! I put to the vote a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at number 3340. On the election of Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Politics, Land Relations and his dismissal from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self - Government. Please vote. [[10:06:31]] For 329 It's been decided. Thank you. The draft decree on changes in the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the election of Kozlovski as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations is under consideration. Please, Valentin Matviyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u4	Thank you. To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Rules of Procedure of 9 January considered a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Kozlowski, from the one-maned constituency number 133, the Mikolai region, a member of the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine to move him from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in matters of pensioners, veterans and invalids to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Considering that the calculated quota for the proportional representation of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party in the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has been ten times exceeded, thereby violating the requirements of article 4.4.5 of the Supreme Council Rules, the committee decided not to support the application of the Kozlovski People’s Deputy to move to the above-mentioned committee. You have received the committee's relevant material on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, the position of the committee towards your acquaintance has been proven. At the same time, there is a registered draft of Decree 3406, which states that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Anatoly Mikhailovich, should be elected as a member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. I'm putting to the vote the draft of this order - 3406 number. [[10:08:51]] For 278 It's been decided. And now I'd like to ask what we need to think about, to complement the committee so that they can work in the right place. A draft regulation on changes in the composition of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft of this decree 3313 has been handed over to you. This is proposed to be complemented by the faction "Ukraine" and "European Choice". If there's no objection. Please, Adam Ivanovich. Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u6	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! When we made a decision to create a temporary special commission on project preparation and changes to the Constitution, you and I decided that from each faction we would delegate a proportional number to the rules of the Rules. And we've determined with you that from the 20 people's deputies, each faction recommends one member of this committee. And so, if I'm not mistaken, there are 40 people's deputies in the faction of Ukraine, so their quota is two people's deputies. If he says two people's deputies is another matter. If they want to increase their quota, then you have to scale up the quota and all the other factions, which means turning the Temporary Special Commission not into a special commission, but into a half or a mini-High Council. So I'd like to ask you to give this first for consideration by the Legal Committee, and then we'll be determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that since differences are now emerging, we need to postpone and postpone consideration of this issue. I will ask the heads, the co-chairs of the committees, and the Regulatory Committee to process and make agreed proposals. A draft decree to amend the calendar plan for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! What is the essence of the proposed draft decision: with a view to making more rational use of working time, increasing the number of drafts prepared for consideration, is proposed instead of a week from 5 to 8 May earlier, we made this decision in committee mode, rather than having a plenary plenary week. And also, at this time, move the work of MP factions and groups. It's also, this proposal, it's also related, as you can see, to your esteemed colleagues, to the celebration of this week's national holiday on May 9, that is, Victory Day. Spending two plenary weeks, and now it's going to be two plenary weeks from 12 to 16 and 19 to 23 May, if you support it, it'll give us a chance to discuss and adopt more bills. And you know, we already have a few hundred of them, and we have to work on it. The other one. The draft regulation also proposes instead of working on July 7 - 11, this year on committees of the parliamentary factions and groups working in the Supreme Council in the regime, I emphasize once again the plenary sessions. This order of work again, in our view, will allow us to consider more bills and to complete the work of today's third session of the Supreme Council. In addition, this will allow for a rational use of the increased inter-sessional period for better preparation of the future fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in addition, my fellow Members, I would also like to inform you that a draft decree is being tabled by the Rules Committee, unanimously supported by the Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups at a meeting last Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this issue at the Conciliation Council and have come to understand that this draft decision needs to be supported. In view of this, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 3378, on the modification of the calendar plan for the holding of the third session of the Supreme Council of the fourth General Assembly as a whole as a decision. Please vote. [[10:14:59]] For 404 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 3 April 2003 on Hearing of Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Compliance by Executive Authorities with Legislation Requirements for the Implementation of the Spring-Polish Work Package and Measures to Ensure Enforcement of Legislation in Preparation for and Implementation of Crop Collection 2003 is being announced. Dear national deputies, as you know, we made a decision in our own time to listen to this information on April 23. But April 23rd is not a plenary week. The committee proposes to move on May 6th. But since we have made a decision now, I propose that we consider this issue on May 13 — Tuesday. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the adoption of Order 3377. Please vote. By replacing the words "May 6" with "May 13th." [[10:16:17]] For 363 Decision taken. A draft decree on the postponement of the date of the special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on honouring the memory of the victims of the 1932-1933 famine is being announced. As you know, dear colleagues, we've decided earlier to hold this meeting on May 7th. But in view of the changes in the schedule for plenary meetings, a special meeting of the Supreme Council is proposed on May 14 at 10 a.m. I am voting on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision 3389 on the postponement of the date of the special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the observance of the victims of hunger in 1932-1933. [[10:17:27]] For 317 It's been decided. A draft decision on the transfer of time limits on the status of customs on the Government of Ukraine Day in July 2003 is being announced for consideration. Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. Please turn on the microphone. Turn on Yehanur's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u10	National MP Dobkin made an offer to deal with the matter. After processing, we found that, first of all, we either move it to July, or we move it to the next session at all. And that's actually a message from the Economic Policy Committee. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, if possible by procedure, remove this issue from consideration at this session, remove it altogether.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! The drafter of the bill, National MP Dobkin, proposes that this issue be removed. Please, Gurenko Stanislav Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u12	Thank you, Gurenko faction Communists. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to join Yuri Ivanovich and colleague Dobkin. Let's take this question down now and we'll work it out more carefully and go out with it maybe in the next session. Thank you. Move it, move it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u13	Anatoly Frost. Should I vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u14	Anatoly Frost, 83rd constituency, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, there have been several questions in this room that we are very busy with parliamentary hearings, the days of the government. And we can see that they won't go into the Rules at all. So we need to see if it's the Secretariat or you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Look, next week we're in the districts, we've got committee meetings planned, we're leaving, we've got committee meetings, we've got parliamentary hearings. When do you work in the districts?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u15	I'm very supportive of you, but we've agreed that we'll watch closely and the committees will be determined as to the relevance of the event, making recommendations taking into account the schedule that we already have and it's oversaturated. Dear colleagues, is there no objection to us taking this issue off the table right now and considering it in the next session? None. A draft decree on Ukraine’s Government Day in July 2003 on the implementation of measures for Ukraine’s accession to WTO is being announced. Ladies and gentlemen, it is proposed to hold the Government's Day in July. The economic policy committee does not object to the consideration of this issue. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at number 3141 on the Government Day of Ukraine in July 2003 with the following agenda: the move towards implementing measures for Ukraine's entry into WTO. [[10:21:44]] For 303 It's been decided. It's being announced. Attention, please. - Draft decree on parliamentary hearings "Problems of the legislative settlement and implementation of the State policy on the protection of the rights of Ukrainians who have been expelled from Lemkowish, Nadsenje, Podlešje and the Netherlands under the Agreement of 9 September 1944 between the Government of the Soviet Union and the Polish National Liberation Committee". [[June 4, 2003]] National Deputy Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u16	Dear friends. A little story first. On September 9, 44, an agreement was signed between the Government of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic of Poland and the Polish National Liberation Committee on the relocation of Ukrainians from Lemkowščina, Holmkimščina, Subtle to Ukraine. And according to this Treaty, much of the Ukrainians were relocated from there, becoming Ukrainian citizens. I emphasize that they have become Ukrainian citizens. But unfortunately, they do not have those rights today, many of them do not have the rights that citizens of Ukraine have. For example, according to current legislation, citizens who have returned to the Soviet Union since the year 45 are considered to be members of the war, but all of these people from Holmkovsky, Lemkowščina, returned back in the year 44. There is a problem with the simplified crossing of the border, that is, Poland becomes a CEV. These people have the right to visit parental, parental graves, and this too needs to be decided. There is a cultural problem, that is, a huge layer of Dutch culture, Lemkovščina, but they don't have them on our magazine or theater or anything like that. A number of problems are involved, and these people need to be heard in order to make specific decisions. I want to say, and I really want to point out that even from the draft decree, we've removed the definition of giving a political and legal assessment of this fact. We got it. We have absolutely no claim to Poland. We have absolutely no claim to this power, which was at the time, we just want to decide specifically to help these people. This needs to be heard, and some specific decisions need to be made. And so what I want to say is that in the press, I read a report saying that the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, speaking of the tragedy of Volina, also said that the best answer to these problems would be to solve these people's problems. Solutions to specific problems. And I would like to point out once again that this is about solving social problems. When it comes to solving cultural problems, there are so many letters from these people, and there are not so many left, and they are very much asking you to listen to them and to help them in some way. I would also very much ask you all to help in this situation and to vote in favour of the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u17	Have a seat, please. It's a motive. Sit down. We're not talking. Sit down. For reasons, please, Mikhail Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u18	Mikhailo Kosov, "Our Ukraine", the Reform and Order Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I think we can leave in this decision, which is proposed by my colleague Terren, the date of these parliamentary hearings, but the chronological framework of these events needs to be expanded, because emigration or, say, deportation of the Ukrainian population from Poland to Ukraine was not only due to the treaty mentioned here, and not only in 1944, but also in the 45th, 46th, were evictions in 47th and even in 51st. So let's log out the date of the event, and we'll put the problem itself within the time frame that corresponds to history, and then next week, next Thursday, we'll vote on this decision in a new edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u19	Dear friends, I would like to say that what Michael Kossov is offering is perfectly normal. But he also showed, by the way, an example of how to work. He made these proposals a long time ago, and we looked at them on the committee yesterday, and they can be supported. But we have to vote today, because the only number that's still available is June 4th. But we would very much like to get involved in Michael Kosev's discussion, and when we make decisions about these parliamentary hearings, all of this will definitely be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u20	Honorable People’s Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u21	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, can we get a widow from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen of the national committee, we will vote, Hennaday Josephovich Udovenko. Today's the day of the vote. Yuri Anatolyovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u23	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, to the Supreme Council, to the government, many references are made to the President on this issue. And there's even an accusation against the Supreme Council to block even trying to solve these very pressing issues. Michael Kosev's proposal, they're right, they'll be taken into account in the course of parliamentary hearings. We'll include his recommendations. And in order not to complicate the problem right now, I urge all colleagues to vote unanimously in favour of the balanced draft decision proposed by a group of national deputies and announced by Terrence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u24	Yuri Solomatin. Well, I see, come on, now, let's listen to different points of view, I see. Let's vote, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u25	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, there are many painful questions in our history. One such issue, which is being discussed livelyly in our society and society in Poland, is the 60th anniversary of the Volin tragedy. All scientists who took part in round tables, and especially in Ostroz, they emphasize that a scientifically balanced, tolerant approach is needed. First you have to have round tables, talk outside government institutions, and only then you have to take it to a state level. So I have such fears that immediately considering this issue on the Supreme Council will lead to the destruction of our relationship with Poland. I propose to refrain from making such a decision at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u26	Turn off the microphone. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u27	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I represent here, in fact, the border constituency, where I have practically half of the population -- these are the immigrants from Poland and. Once again, I emphasize that these are just parliamentary hearings. We have to finally talk about this. There is no claim here either to Poland or to Poland or to anything else. I call first of all on colleagues from "Our Ukraine" to support without any warning, because this, once again, is just a parliamentary hearing. And there we can talk about all the topics, pick up, listen, and finally be heard, because people are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u28	Thank you. Vladimir Pehota. Five minutes out of motive, we'll vote now. Infantry, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u29	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. We consulted in our group about the parliamentary hearings. So it doesn't work that way, and now it looks like we have a central lecture, not the Supreme Council. We suggest that we hold parliamentary hearings on the basis of committees, and on committees or in a bank office, so that no one in our workplace but us can sit. This question needs to be considered carefully. So we're not essentially going to vote against it, we're going to vote in form. We are opposed to the constant conduct of parliamentary hearings here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u30	Sergei Shevchuk. Not all of them can be excused at once, my dear fellow. Everyone can't speak at once. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u31	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, this question was discussed at the European Integration Committee meeting. I think no one here can doubt that the Committee on Euro-Integration is interested in any issue of Ukraine's relationship with the countries of Europe, including with a country like the Republic of Poland. But we believe that Ukraine's consolidation and accession to the EU is possible only if all the unexplained pages of history are carefully studied. And one way to study these pages is through parliamentary hearings. Where they're going, within the committee or in the session room, it doesn't matter. But members of the Euro Integration Committee are calling for a vote in favour of the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u32	Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u33	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. I would like to say again what we have as the Supreme Council of Ukraine to respond adequately to the problems that are painful for Ukrainian citizens. I already have a second call in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to confirm that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Human Rights comes from numerous letters from those who have been forcibly displaced. I'd like to say again about what you know if it's for. Came in here, so it's a real shame because you should have known about it when you were going to the Supreme Council. Conducting parliamentary hearings on the eviction of these people will enable us to make a concrete approach to solving their problems. So I would ask them to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u34	Thank you. That's Igor Ostasz. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u35	Igor Ostash, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. I really support these parliamentary hearings, because I also have a large part of the population in the district, just displaced from Poland. And I would like to say that today it has a very fundamental international dimension. And so in order to avoid direct conflicts with our Polish colleagues, we need to listen to these questions within the committee, but we need to hold a general-parliamentary hearing, and first and foremost ask questions about the social protection of those people who have suffered during those far-reaching political events. But I have a specific offer. Mr. Kosov suggested extending the time frame in the document. And that's why we can actually vote on this issue today, by making the time frame extend in this way: 1944-1946 and 1951, that is, by giving this period, we can vote today in favour of parliamentary hearings. And another aspect is the judiciary. Regrettably, there are today double standards for making decisions in court regarding the granting of status as warlords. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u36	Turn off the microphone. Yes, come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal that will simply unite the hall. Where we write "under contract," "agreement" delete and leave "the extermination of Ukrainians from their ethnic territories." This will unite all years of illegal action against Ukrainians. First. It's different. That'll be an adequate answer because there's already a discussion going on the pages of "The Jacket of the Week," other newspapers. We are offered to apologize to the Ukrainian people. The Ukrainian people have done nothing wrong. And this is the status of parliamentary hearings, and I'm talking about not saying that these are all types of people that are going to express themselves. This is not yet Parliament's position, this is before Parliament's position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u38	Thank you. All of it. Honorable national MPs, in view of their proposals for addition to the draft decree, may we vote on the basis and then vote on the addition of Michael Kosiv. I am voting on the basis of the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2394 on parliamentary hearings on the problems of legislative settlement and the implementation of the State policy on the protection of the rights of Ukrainians that have been expelled from Lemkowščina. Under the agreement of 9 September 1944 between the U.S.R. Government and the Polish National Liberation Committee. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[10:36:17]] For 185 The decision is not taken. The factions. A draft decree on parliamentary hearings on the problem of homeless citizens and homeless children and how to deal with them is being announced. Leonid Mikhailovich, please, very briefly. But no matter what, it's a vote, you'll have a brief explanation for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u39	I'm asking five minutes at all, because it's a very important question. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I want to tell you that the problem of street children and street children and street people is a very serious problem because half of our population is in a state of neglect. And I think that this problem could also be reflected in the Government Programme. It's very difficult. In the dining room that I care about, Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk was also able to confirm that this is a problem, and Victor Andreevich Yushchenko. That's a serious problem. We have a situation in which local authorities and even higher powers live their lives and most of the population of Ukraine. Who hangs around the walls, lives his life. That's an important question. First of all, I'd like you to give me a little more attention during this speech. I don't know. I really don't know how to do that. Because the media can show a hundred times in one day, like one hundred cars in an accident. The problem is, for the country, and some important informational occasion, and not to show at all any person or child in transitions, in garbage tanks or any unemployed person. It's all very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u40	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u41	I want you to support this programme and allow me to discuss it in more detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour has considered the proposed proposal made by the Ukrainian National MP, noting the relevance of the problem, however, he suggests that this issue be considered in November. Since there will be a fourth session in November, it is likely that we will consider this issue when we form the order of the day of the fourth session. But since the National MP made this proposal, we should vote on it, and you should decide. Right? I am voting on draft decree 3225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on parliamentary hearings on the problem of homeless citizens and homeless children and how to overcome them. People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[10:39:33]] For 351 It's been decided. I ask the Social Policy Committee to agree on the exact date of these parliamentary hearings in May, taking into account that other parliamentary hearings are scheduled for May. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't complain. Please, Head of the Committee, National Deputy Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u43	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like a moment's attention. The Committee considered, consulted with the Ministry of the Interior, with a family and youth committee, they supported the initiative, but serious training was needed. Thus, the issue had no material without a study of anything to consider. Therefore, I would like to vote in favour of holding parliamentary hearings with such an agenda in November, otherwise it will be a formal approach and we will do nothing, simply in the language of the scratch. Please vote, Vladimir Mihajlovich, on holding parliamentary hearings in November.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u44	Unfortunately, the national MPs did not hear the arguments I was talking about, and in the heat of popularism they voted in May. It's just a little bit to make sure that all of this is known to the distinguished national MPs. We've already voted, unfortunately. And now I'm asking you to define a specific date, because it's not specific, it's written in May. The ruling has already been voted, if necessary, the committee will make a draft transposition order, and then we will consider the transfer. It is announced for consideration by the Supreme Council Order, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Demijohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, is there a need for a committee? You don't? May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies? I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Programme of Action of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine under number 3240 on the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers' Programme of Action. Please vote. [[10:41:57]] For 335 Program accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. The factions, please. I think the Supreme Council, welcoming the Cabinet of Ministers with its approved Programme of Action, has every reason to believe that we will have close, fruitful cooperation between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers in the name of solving the problems that the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian State, are looking forward to. [[by factions said]] I, thank you, my dear colleagues! Let's go to rereading. A draft law on the election of Ukrainian national MPs is being announced for consideration, re-reading. Mikola Rudzkowski, please. Dear colleagues! They suggest that one speak from Anatoly Matvienko's committee so that the author of the bill does not speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! Let me draw your attention to a bill that will now be put to the vote, but before that, very brief information. You remember that we sent a bill on the election of Ukrainian national deputies to read again. On 12 March this year, the committee considered the bill, and very many amendments were made, specifically by Melniczuk, Krüchovsky, Olujk, Ponomarenko, other people's deputies. And we've been working on that bill that wasn't adopted in the first reading, and we've sent it back to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u46	Anatoly Sergiyovich, one minute. Dear National Deputies! I ask you, honourable national deputies, that we no longer begin to celebrate. We need to accept a lot of documents today, please, MPs, stay in our jobs. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u47	There were many amendments to the bill that we sent to read again. First settled issues are the formation and refinement of voter lists, the submission of property declarations for the income of candidates to the MPs. Decisions to cancel candidates’ registrations, appeals, and much more. The scientific-expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking these amendments into account, has given a positive conclusion. The committee is proposing to the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u48	If there are no objections or questions, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:45:28]] For 217 Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the re-reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! What suggestions?Oh, my God! Please write it down for five minutes. Please calm down. National Deputy Terrence, please. National Deputy Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u49	Give it to the Turk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u50	Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I think the euphoria associated with the adoption of the government program has left many of us unable to understand what we voted for. I am very much asking, colleagues, all to carry out their duties before the citizens, before Parliament, and to adopt a law by the Supreme Council that will allow constitutional reform to take place. So, Your Honor Chairman, I ask you to put this law to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u52	National MP Masenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u53	Thank you. I also support this proposal, and I would like once again to put to the vote the issue of the adoption of a law on the election of national MPs, and for those deputies who vote in favour of the government programme, I would like to stress once again that the compromise with the majority and with the government will never go away, and we should not expect that, and you make a big mistake. And I ask the Chief to put him to the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u54	Sergei Matvienkov, please, the European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u55	Matvienko, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I ask you to calm down. Today, we do not want to practice double morality and double standards. Everyone understood and understood what they were voting for, and everyone knew it was a bill. A re-vote may be put to the vote if the deputies do not object to the consideration of the bill. Our group categorically opposes the re-voting of this bill because we support and adhere to the views that our voters today have, which have no idea, that it is a proportional system of elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u56	Stepan Gavrish, please. I ask you to calm down, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The electoral model that we have been discussing for so long is a component of national development and an important aspect of political power reform. I think we should have an extremely complicated discussion by creating a special conciliatory commission that will allow us to do so. the agreed decision in the session room. So I propose no more putting this bill to a vote, and this will be fair in terms of the position that most of the session room has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u58	Gennady Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u59	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, he was such a wardrobe in the hall and voting such an important question in such a commotion, noise. People just didn't get away with it, thought they were re-voting the government program. It's not clear. So our party group insists on re-voting, and we need to determine. And secondly, I don't want to spoil that vote. But, dear colleagues, you made a very big mistake when you did not make a decision to hold parliamentary hearings dedicated to deported Ukrainians. And we're going to have to wash up a lot more in front of people for that vote, and there were 500,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u60	Joseph of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u61	Viennese, Socialist faction. Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u62	Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honourable Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Yesterday, during my speech on the Government Programme, I addressed the Prime Minister, those deputies who support the Cabinet of Ministers, that the faction will vote in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers' Program only if those who value the government's work and form it will vote in favour of the Elections Act on a proportional basis. Yesterday, during a meeting with the faction, the Prime Minister confirmed that this is what will be done. In view of the fact that the vote has not taken place, we believe that we are being deceived and therefore the faction, we will now advise, we will not participate in any matter until the Law on elections is passed on a proportionate basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u64	Yes, please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u65	Chestnut, the Communist faction. I support my colleague Masenko for re-voting. Well, I'm talking to those respectable colleagues who have succumbed to the majority: don't do that anymore, because it's very bad for our opposition and, above all, for the people of Ukraine. I think today's vote on the Cabinet of Ministers programme has shown who is who is supporting anti-national reforms in Ukraine. So draw conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Five minutes out. From the Assadchev procedure. All of it. Five minutes is up. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u67	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. I'm looking at the agenda. The title goes "repeated first reading." And by the law, it's also written in the context of "repetition of first reading." This is not right - the law does not vote in the repetitive first reading, it goes in the repetitive first, but it does vote in the first reading. So it's not spelled right, you don't have to write it in quotes, it's just confusing. [[re-read]] And no one understands what the vote is about. The chapter rereads the first reading and does not have to be put in quotes. Therefore we ask that you say clearly, The law is voted in the first reading, and not in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I said so when I asked for a vote. Please, the drafter of the bill, and we will now determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we have recently heard a speech at the Supreme Council of the President of Ukraine, which spoke of constitutional changes, and once again, for the tenth time, perhaps from his official statements, he spoke of the Proportional Elections Act. And he was also the initiator of the Proportional Elections Act. And I understand that when the President speaks, and most MPs support him, the majority should not speak, and the President should not speak, but, indeed, to make the constitutional changes that have been announced, because the opposition has consistently taken its place in this matter, there are constitutional changes and the Law on Proportional Elections. Let's stop playing, vote in the first reading, there'll be suggestions, we'll work them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u70	Thank you. Victor Pinzenik and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u71	Victor Pinzenik, "Our Ukraine" faction. I'm authorized by the faction "Our Ukraine" to make a statement. Since the political arrangements for today's vote have been violated in this room, the faction "Our Ukraine" will not participate in the vote until the Act on the Proportional Electoral System has been considered and adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? In view of the insistence on re-voting in order to ensure stability in the session room, I am voting on the basis of the draft Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[10:55:18]] For 213 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Property, Property Rights and Occupational Evaluation Act in Ukraine is being re-readed. Is there a Polish Larissa Alexiyevna? There's no Pole. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Who's gonna be on the committee? National MP of the Kings, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u73	Deputies! Draft Ukrainian Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Property Rights Assessment and Occupational Evaluation Act in Ukraine. If you remember, there were three bills. One was served by Natzbank and the other was served by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u74	May I have your attention, distinguished national deputies. Dear colleagues, I request your attention, the bill is being reported. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u75	There were three bills submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, Nitzbank and Mr. Bezpalov and Ehanurov. The Committee had finalized and it appeared that all three bills could be combined into one another, and there were ideas that did not contradict each other. The essence of the bill is to abolish the mandatory valuation of property on collateral. Mandatory assessment. They have made a mandatory assessment in public and communal property operations. In addition, a number of shortcomings and contradictions in the Civil and Procedural Codes have been addressed in existing practice. In general, we believe that the bill can be adopted on first reading and that if the MPs decide, it can also be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There's a bill to be voted on right now, so you can make up your mind. Please sit down, distinguished national MPs. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I am voting on the adoption of the draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Occupational Evaluation in Ukraine. Please vote. Vote. [[10:59:15]] For-188. The bill was not adopted, so it was rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? At the request of the leaders of the two factions: the Socialist Party and the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, a 30 - minute break is announced, up to 11 hours 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. Please take your seats so that we can continue our work. We continue our work, two factions take a break for 30 minutes. These are factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, and I'll ask you to report on the outcome of your negotiations during the break so that we can continue to determine our work. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u78	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich! We held a meeting during the break and came to the conclusion that an unprecedented event had taken place in Parliament. Contrary to the political arrangements that were made yesterday, which have also been reported to the Ukrainian public through the media. Since the Prime Minister personally and the deputies of factions supporting the Cabinet of Ministers guaranteed that at least 40 votes would be given in favour of the law on elections on a proportional basis, i.e. that the law would be voted down, nevertheless, the vote confirmed that they had refused and taken an unfair step in relation to other deputies. This does not make possible the normal work of Parliament for the future. This, by the way, confirms that the President's statement here in the rostrum, in other places, is all fiction. He doesn't want any political reform, he doesn't see any proportional system, because he doesn't have the positions he's counting on with his politicians, so if you'll excuse me for that word, the affairs, because otherwise I can't call these proposals. And so we can be careful not to resort to any radical action. And we believe that Parliament cannot miss this moment in this way. We insist that we now hold a meeting of the heads of all factions, invite the Prime Minister and advise on how to proceed. We are convinced that today we should open the way to political reform by voting on a proportionally-based election law and by voting on the parliamentary hearings that have taken place here, because there is no other movement towards political reform. You don't have to fool people, you don't have to leave the fog, you have to do specific things, and you have to go to the democratization of social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u79	Yes, dear fellows, what are we going to do? I'm asking for five minutes of motivation. Please sign up. That's where Nestor Schufrich raised his hand, please. Who else raised their hand? Ah, Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u80	Schuffrich, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Dear colleagues, our faction has not taken part in any arrangement, and we ask that we continue the day-to-day work of the Supreme Council. Today, we are responsible for the work of the higher legislature. We're like national deputies and we can't afford to block the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u81	Hennaday Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u82	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Unlike my previous colleague, our faction comes from the need to keep finding compromises in Parliament, constantly looking for ways to deal with them. And that's why, for example, I absolutely don't accept the accusation that we didn't take part in any deals, but you did. We must continue this way in order to unlock the situation so that our Parliament will work. I support the proposals made by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz. The faction leaders need to agree on the Prime Minister's involvement in our future work. We have to figure out the three issues that need to be resolved today -- this is the law on elections in a proportional system, this is the law on referendum, and this is the law on the Cabinet of Ministers, so that the Cabinet of Ministers will work, well, with full pay, not waiting for it tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u83	Anatoly Tolstoy. Well, here they come from factions, not all at once, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There's an offer to keep working on the order of the day that we've approved. If there is a need to meet the faction leaders of the Supreme Council, I think it is possible to set a time for such a meeting, for example, at 2 p.m. But since this is about Parliament's work, we need to get together first of all. If there is a decision to invite the Prime Minister, he should be invited. Let's start asking questions in a circle like this, I think is premature and inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u85	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u86	Thank you. I would first like to point out that today a hideous child has been compromised. Always compromises a ugly child. And so I emphasize that more compromises can no longer be achieved in this room. And this was confirmed by those political bisexuals who don't keep agreements with normal men, I'm stressing again. So I would like it not to be discussed now whether the Supreme Council will work or not. We're here to make it work. But it cannot work under conditions where it does not adhere to the basic arrangements between normal people. When abnormal people work here, we leave the right for normal people to work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u87	Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u88	Sobolev, Our Ukraine, Reform and Order Party. I'm joining that group that voted against this program with no support for this government programme and this government. I'm out of one thing. Today, the Law on Elections on a Proportional Basis or Other Laws is not a key issue. So today, the key question that Alexander Alexander Moroz, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, who else is there, Matthew, I'm asking you, is that there's a illegal referendum machinist who's trying to continue the mandate of Kuchma. And the discussions in the Supreme Council's premises should be on one issue in the presence of the Prime Minister. How to Stop an Unlawful Referendum. This should be just a moment of negotiation. All the other negotiations are from the wicked one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u89	Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u90	I want us to stay in this room first of all men. And I belong to this group that, today, when voting for the program, just lost normally. I don't support the government program, and it's weak from the point of view of the program itself, from the political position behind it. And it's going directly to the next presidential election. But I want us not to justify our position, which turned out to be completely helpless and helpless and dishonest, some other high matter. I remember Griboyed's "Crazy Man": "It's not hard to deceive me, to deceive my advice yourself." And that's why I'm joining Kolya Soboleva today, and I'm saying that we're not just the whole Parliament, not just the opposition, the opposition, today, it's hard to talk about opposition. Today's main problem is to prevent anti-constitutional action in the state and the main problem of referendum. Here we have to unite on such things, an anti-constitutional referendum, once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, we've taken five minutes, time's up. There's this proposal, because there's a difference of opinion, let's do this, maybe we'll make a palatative decision. At 12 o'clock, when there's a break, I'd like the attention of my distinguished colleagues, and I'd like to ask the faction leaders to meet us all at 12 o'clock. No, well, we'll consult now. Let's be sure. Please, Hubby Bogdan. Well, five more minutes. I'll talk to you soon. Dear colleagues, well, we'll make a decision. It's not like we haven't made up our minds yet. We'll make a decision that you're worried about. Yes, Lucenko is just here protecting the rostrum. It's going to be Lucenka, well, you're worried, everything's going to be fine. Gussky's going to take the floor, then Lucenko, everything's going to be fine. I thought Lucenko was just here to stay out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The People's Authority MPs have a firm, consistent position. We made it clear that we are: first, we are voting in favour of the Government's Action Programme, for which we said it yesterday. We always consistently claimed, and yesterday we said that we would not vote for a proportional law today. And that's why there's absolutely no basis for accusing the People's Authority MPs of violating any of the arrangements. If someone is violating an arrangement, please find out what these arrangements are. We didn't agree on anything, our position was clear, our position in front of the voters, and it was officially declared in all media. That's the first one. The second question. I wouldn't be asking these questions today, some kind of culinary arrangement between those or other MP groups, factions today in the session room. If there is a question, those who have made arrangements need to find out and place points among themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u93	Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! Honorable deputies from the majority! We don't blame you for breaking any deals. Yesterday, at 6.30 p.m., the Prime Minister of Ukraine, as leader of the ruling majority of parliament, came publicly, everyone knew it, came to the faction of the Socialists. There he gave the floor to all that 40 members of the majority would vote in favour of the Law on the Election of National Deputies on a proportionate basis in the first and second readings. It was a public agreement which was made yesterday in the speech of the leaders of the opposition, and the prime minister went at it. I don't blame the members of the majority for breaking anything. We thought that your leader, formerly the head of the Donetsk group, speaking your language, was incense. He turned out to be a six - year - old who suddenly left the opposition here today. Today we're in the rape phase, that's absolutely true. And we, speaking your usual language, demand that the Prime Minister come here and answer for the word that was given. I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u96	Don't thank me, please. There will be no parliamentary work without it. No one is free to leave Parliament at such a level in public. There will be no rules. The work of the Socialists will not give if the Prime Minister does not come here and push this situation forward. It won't happen again. We were fooled, we turned out to be naive fools, but he turned out to be a natural liar. And he'll be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u97	Raisa Bogotyrov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, I may have spoken out of place, but I want you to see me, and I've been looking at you. Each of us treats and treats the leaders of our factions differently, and this is your right. But the faction of the "Ukraine" has chosen me unanimously and to this day supports me unanimously. And the positions that the faction is producing, I'm sounding, and they're being held completely undeniably on my part, because this is a faction's decision. That's why I'm officially representing this room once again: I'm the official head of the Ukraine faction, which has not led any negotiations in my person on the voting arrangements for the proportional elections and the support of the government's programme -- first. Second, the Prime Minister is not a national MP who votes in the Chamber. Secondly, the arrangements you're making right now, I can't confirm them and I can't deny them. I'm an honest and decent person, and I don't know for today. This morning, I asked the whole group if there were any arrangements behind my back, since the decision had to be taken with due consideration. I was told that absolutely every member had no such arrangement. That's why it's not my personal honor, it's a group of national MPs who didn't break the deal. [[43 Men]] And if the hall wants to be not splintered, but to continue to work, we're ready to hold additional consultations, but today to put us as a reprimand, that's unfair and there's no reason. I'm refuting these statements that have been heard before, and I'm asking the hall to come back to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, since I can see that the cards have been drawn and are not set up for work, let's take a break by 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-17-m0.u100	Please invite the deputies to the session room so that we can continue our work. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs. Dear colleagues, let me inform you of the outcome of our lengthy meeting, the Conciliation Council. All the leaders of factions and MPs have come to the conclusion that we need to get the work in a constructive way so that we can work effectively. Now we're proposing this pattern of work. Before we go to the second reading of the bill. I'm asking you now, then, not to be told that you haven't been able to vote, honourable national MPs! I'm asking all the national MPs to sign up, put the cards in. We're waiting because now there's only 53 MPs who put the cards in, and there's 430 in the morning session. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues, we have agreed on such a sequence, now we will put to the vote the draft law "On Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies" to be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Calm down, at least in the first reading, let us accept. If a decision is not made, vote for a second reading. Calm down, you can't handle it like this. Then, fellow believers, listen carefully. To adopt a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the summary of the parliamentary hearings on the reform of the political system in Ukraine, the purpose and conceptual principles, adding that, in addition to the introduction of the bill on the amendment of the Constitution, the law on elections, as well as the law on the Cabinet of Ministers, should be considered at the same time. That's how we arranged the mechanism. We make the right decisions, we're still working. Ready to vote? Is there a law? If there's a law, let's put the law on a referendum, too. Well, then we'll put it in when we get to the vote. We now have 405 national deputies registered, and we have the opportunity to work. I'm asking for your attention! I'm voting on the adoption of the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies. This is 2525-d. [[13:20:31]] For 190 Please give by factions. Yes, thank you. I am voting for re-reading the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies. [[13:21:12]] For-189 The factions, please. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. A draft regulation on the summary of parliamentary hearings "The reform of the political system in Ukraine" is being announced for consideration. Objectives and conceptual principles of constitutional change." Two projects have been introduced. We're voting in order of order. I put to the vote the first draft of Decree 3353, introduced by the People's Deputies of Musiyak, Moroz, Filenko, Sirenko, on the summary of parliamentary hearings "The Reform of Ukraine's Political System. Objectives and conceptual principles of constitutional change." I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis. Please vote. [[13:22:47]] For-19 And it's so clear to give by factions! Ladies and gentlemen, let's go do our deals. I'm gonna say it again. So let's vote now, let's vote again on the return to the re-reading of the Elections Act, and then we'll move on to the ruling. I'll take the vote, please. On returning to the first reading of the draft law on election of Ukrainian national deputies. Please vote. [[13:24:30.]] For-92 The decision is not taken. Well, let's re-vote the draft decree on the summary of parliamentary hearings. Let's move on, let's make some decisions with respectable colleagues. The draft rulings on parliamentary hearing recommendations set out all the approaches that we're talking about here. So let's make them legal for us. So I said, what determination do we vote first or two? So I told you in the order of arrival. The first is decree 3353. We'll be speaking to the National MP Musiyaks and other National MPs. That is why I am voting on the basis of the draft resolution on the summary of parliamentary hearings, “The reform of the political system in Ukraine, the purpose and conceptual principles of constitutional change” for adoption as a basis under number 3353. Please vote. [[13:25:51]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Yes, calm down, please. I am voting on the basis of draft decision 3353-1 on the summary of parliamentary hearings on the reform of the political system in Ukraine, the purpose and conceptual principles of constitutional change. The authors of the 9 factions of the majority. Please vote. [[13:26:34]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. I ask the faction leaders to meet again in the Head's office at 2:00 a.m. to make another arrangement for our future actions.
