ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:03:05]] Registered -396 396 national deputies registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Tkachenka Alexander Mikolaiovich. Let's say hello, we want good things and all kinds of things. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules on Friday, we discuss the order of the day’s session. List of questions, your schedule is Friday. The rules today do not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests, but if there is no objection, the requests that have come could be announced and voted on. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Victor Terrena to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on sources of funding for spending on a national debate on a bill to amend the Ukrainian Constitution initiated by the President. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:23]] For-98 Decision taken. Igora Ostasa to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the investigation of the bankruptcy of the state-owned enterprise Hodorovska Sugar Plant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:49]] For-140. Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the development of project and cost-effective documentation for the construction of the Hersonian prosthetic and orthopaedic works in accordance with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:19]] For-154 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the legality of the acquisition and use of state property by closed Athek shareholders. [[The City of Kiev]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:48]] For-154 Decision taken. Gregory Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for gasification of areas affected by the Chernobyl AES accident. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:20]] For-157. Decision taken. Andrija Verrwski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of funding for the Own House program. I'm betting on sending a request. [[10:06:46]] For-127 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-usurpation of state power in Ukraine by representatives of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:19]] For-157. Decision taken. Georgia Manchulenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on submerged lands in the Cherniewec region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:42]] For 172 Decision taken. Mikoli Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt to the budget and government trust funds in connection with the force of major circumstances. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:14]] For-141 Decision taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation of drinking water supply in the areas of the Shakhtar region of the Donetsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:42]] For 210 Decision taken. Lilia Grigorovich, Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on providing information on the facts of trafficking in children during adoption. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:08]] For the 220. Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of Kirovogradsadvinprom and the Dolin Tax Administration after the destruction of the farm The Dolin fruit grower of the Kirovograd region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:42]] For-149 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Property Fund for the protection of the interests of the Kyiv optical and mechanical technology of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine in connection with the violation of state property lease legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:14]] For 114 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, General of the Army of Ukraine Škidchenk on dissatisfaction with the response of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to a letter from the Special Supervisory Board of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:47]] For 171 Decision taken. The People's Groups of Deputies of Noshchenka, Potapova, Troshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of inclusion in the list of sites subject to the privatisation of the former Public Nutrition Complex of Polissia, Chernigova. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:20]] For-191 Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, in connection with the placement on the external greetings of the President of Ukraine from March 8th. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:50]] For 135 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the heads of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Justice Council, the Head of the State Customs Service, the Heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption and on the issue of legal policy on the criminal activity of the judges of the Odessa Economic Court, the gross violation of effective legislation in the exercise of justice and the loss of economic interests of the State. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:39]] For-119 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Bondarenko, Zebrovsky, Karmazin and others, only 15 national deputies, to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of the law in the city of Mirgorod. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:10]] For 132 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of legislation during the privatisation of the closed stock company Ukrlismarketing. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:38]] For-137 Decision taken. People's Groups of Deputies Cassianenko, Oleg Petrov, Borstewski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of a criminal case against the Director of the Dnipropetrova Company and enforcement of legislation in the course of the investigation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:12]] For-166 Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of citizens in the distribution of property of the former Pavlovgrad KSP of the Dnipropetrov region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:41]] For-147 Decision taken. Victor Antemuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of possible violations of legislation committed by employees of the Department of Internal Affairs in the Winnitsky region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:11]] For-64 The decision is not taken. Istwan Haydosh to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of the Zacarpathian authorities in the misuse of budgetary resources between 1999 and 2001. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:45.]] For 155 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Tajnibok, Steckov and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the criminal case of the bribe to the tax officer in Shevchenkov district of Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:17]] For-149 Decision taken. Vladimir Mazurenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the abuse of office as the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:50]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Raisie Bogatyrov to the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration of Ukraine on monitoring compliance with legislation on the purchase of jobs and services at public expense. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:21]] For-153 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on personal control of the criminal investigation of the attempted suicide of the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Cherkas region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:52]] For-142 Decision taken. Yuri Shirka to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on inadequate control of radiation safety around the Plains AES. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:20]] For 148 Decision taken. Alexander Pecklusenka to the minister of agricultural policy of Ukraine regarding the Ministry’s action to overcome the crisis in the wake of the destruction of the winter crops as a result of the frosts in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:55]] For-152. Decision taken. Vladimir Rybak to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine on the return of tax on added value to the stockholders' company "Minimetalrg factory. Ukraine." I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:26]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Zaplatinski to the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine on the abuse of the office of Judge of the North London Local Court of the Luhansk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:56]] For-94 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Kyiv Court of Appeal, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Fund of State Property for the Protection of the Economic Interests of the State in the Privatization of the North Mining and Enriching Combined. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:35]] For-66 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Ermilova Sergio Fedorovich, on the socio-economic consequences of the Ministry of Coal Restructuring, is under review. Just a minute. By procedure, please, Mikola Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u2	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mihajlovich, first of all, I would like to thank you for having the courage to ask this question, although on Friday, but to put this sinister issue on the agenda for consideration. But there are a number of points in preparation that I cannot ignore, and I ask that they be taken into account. First. To date, we do not have any material on the Minister's report again. People’s deputies today will again communicate with the minister as blind, sorry, with the deaf, because without those materials and figures, it is impossible to understand. This time. Second question. The Communist faction under Simonenko's signature, the leader of the faction, has asked you to invite all the mayors of the mining cities concerned to consider this issue, which will be primarily responsible for the consequences of this restructuring. This issue has not been addressed by the secretariat. And question three. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I'm the author, will return, I'm the initiator of the hearings. How could it be that I didn’t even get caught, I was put on third or fifth speaker rather than co-reporter. Therefore, I ask you to correct this question. I must speak after Kluev, Chairman of the Committee, as co-Rapporteur, because I have initiated consideration of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u3	Your Honor, I'm asking the secretariat to give me information on the invitation. That's the first one. The other one. Regarding the report, I don't think there's gonna be any objection. Coroner to the committee head, five minutes, and you're five minutes away. There's no objection. Please, Valery Assadchev. And with regard to materials, let's make the arrangements so that we can discuss all the issues, and then ask us to send all the materials in writing when we make the decisions so that each deputy can be guided by his conclusions, which he will take from those materials that we will receive from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't quite understand why this question stands in the order of the day as a report from the minister. First, under the Constitution, ministers no longer report to the Supreme Council, but report to the Cabinet of Ministers. Secondly, if we're going to hear it even in that form, we're going to have to make a personal decision about Jermilov or something likes him there, he doesn't like his activities in the past period. That's how I understand it when Jermilov, let's say we had a faction that was about a program that they wanted to start implementing before reforming the sector. And then it was logical that there was a question about this program, we were given this program in some way. And Jermil would have reported it. And it's in the form of a report by Jermilov. First of all, this is no longer the function of the Supreme Council, I repeat, under the Constitution. And secondly, why should we listen to the Ermil report? So either let's somehow correct that question. I don't think it can stand like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u5	I agree with you, but the point is that this was the proposal, and the advisory board supported such an offer, said for it. I could not go against the will of the Supreme Council. Peter Olinick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, here I also want to say according to procedure. It takes a word, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to give factions or priority to members of the coal subcommittee, because the time for discussion is quite small, and those who are actually working professionally, or have some political views, will not be able to speak on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u7	Thank you. Sergey Slubenko, then Andrew Klovev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are, in fact, looking at a rather complex question today and many people would like to speak. I am not a member of this committee, but in the morning the mayor of Novovolinska, a mining town, called me, and again raised a question that we had repeatedly discussed. And I have an answer under the signature of the Minister of Fuel and Energy. And frankly, I don't want to quote and read it, because whoever was preparing it is probably just confusing some of the concepts that were being prepared for the minister's signature. What I'm asking and suggesting is that we have a different one today. We're taking an hour. More than 30 deputies were enrolled. We can't make it again. Let's continue for one hour to consider this issue, and perhaps those deputies who can't make a statement will be able to make their speeches accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u9	I don't understand. Make your position more precise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u10	I'd like us to continue our consideration of the agenda in the "Variable" for one hour, because at least that will allow us to speak and speak to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u11	If it is the will of the Supreme Council, please, there is no objection. Andrew Klovev, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, has been invited to make several decisions by the Supreme Council on this issue. And we have taken into account on the Committee all the wishes of all the authors of all the draft Supreme Council regulations. And we have such a proposal that we are addressing you, this is the committee's decision to give priority to speaking to members of the coal industry. That is to say, experts, including representatives of, in fact, all factions, including those from both Kravchenko and Olijnik and Astrov Shumilov. Such a letter. And Volinec Mikhail Yakovlevich. You have this letter. Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich. That's the letter you have, I'd like it to be. Handing over Gennady Andreevich Vassilev. We would ask that we begin to consider this issue, because it is a specific issue, the industry issue, and should be addressed primarily by specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u13	Thank you. Mikhailo Melniczuk and we're moving on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I simply will not rest because yesterday I did not want to, as it were, take the floor and strain. Yesterday we ratified the Law on the International Labour Organization Convention on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities. And I'm not comfortable with the fact that we're ratifying such agreements here, and in the Chernobyl area, the deputy head of the State District Administration is issuing orders to close the disability rehabilitation centre, citing that there is no cost of maintenance while half a million money has been spent on repairing the head office of the half-million-dollar government when it's purchased for the purchase of 980,000 dollars of the apartment by the deputy holder. This is what I ask you to count, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as a request to the Prime Minister to intervene in solving this problem and not to allow a closed centre on Bukovina where 1400 disabled persons are being rehabilitated each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the subject. A report by the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Jermilov, on the socio-economic consequences of the implementation by the Ministry of Coal Restructuring. The committee offered 45 minutes to consider the matter. This is how I propose to do it. So everyone who signed up can make a statement. Let's do this, for the report -- 20 minutes, answers to the question to the reporter -- 10 minutes, for the committee head's co-reports -- five minutes and the initiator of the question -- five minutes without question. To discuss the problem and the project of the proposed decision, take 20 minutes. And that's how we invest in 60 minutes. Is there no objection? An hour, an hour, I said. Please, Rudkowski, your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u16	Rudkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, we have many more factions. I think every faction wants to testify to their position on this issue. And we need to be able to speak to all the factions in the discussion. I guess 20 minutes isn't enough. Let's limit 3 minutes each faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we have three minutes to do this, but I'd like to say that we usually have 40 minutes to deal with the issue, and I've offered 60. It doesn't suit you that way. Let's vote in two hours, no problem. I think time is enough. I am voting on the proposal of National MP Rudkowski to hold a discussion and consider this issue within an hour and a half if his proposal is for everyone to make a statement. Please determine by vote. [[10:31:25]] For the 180. There's 60 minutes left to offer. Is there no objection? Let's get to work. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Allow me first to welcome to the most charming, kindest part of the legislative branch of the foreeast festival, as well as all the women who are present in the hall and today hear my speech. Scientists predict that without urgent crisis measures, coal production in Ukraine will accelerate. By 2005-2006, coal production would have decreased by 30 per cent. Solving the socio-economic and environmental problems that will arise will cost the state more than one tenth of a billion dollars. The main factor contributing to the collapse of the coal - mining industry in Ukraine is the long - term damage to the vast majority of carbon - carbon enterprises due to the world’s most difficult mining conditions. The lower prices of our coal as a result of poorer quality properties for the older coal mine fund of technological and technological retardation, which results in high energy supply and hard work in the coal industry. Mining is characterized by spatial dissatisfaction, the dependence of production on the characteristics of the geological environment, the probable and discreet nature of the geotechnical environment and geotechnical processes. Thus, virtually all the coal - mining countries are in one way or another squeezing the mines. This is a tool for macroeconomic regulation of national economies. Today, in the coal industry, there were signs of a crisis not today, not a year or two ago. The decline in coal production occurred from 130 million tonnes in 1991 to 75 million tons a year in 1996-1998. The decline in 1994 and the complete cessation of the sector’s supply in 1995 resulted in the total loss of its circulation costs and the creation of a large loan debt, including a salary of over 2.3 billion dollars in 1999. Although government mining had been restored since mid - 1996, there was a chronic shortage of funds. The increase in debt from wages since 1994 has been a steady trend. The volume of capital construction has declined 3.5 times, effectively stopped the production capacity, and began to massively close the mines. The factor contributing to the crisis was the bartering of up to 90 percent, chronic nonpayments, low manufacturing and financial discipline, and, as a result, strikes. Price scissors were a destructive factor for the industry. When middle-sized structures were selling material and technical resources to mines, they were more expensive, and coals were getting cheaper. All of this, and the absence of an effective owner of businesses, has finally desecrated the sector. The managers used destructive calculation schemes because the mine was not their property. At the same time, they were in fact and are now self-reliant sovereigns and users of state property. Only government support and contractual support can provide certain management of mines. But a large number of subjects limit their effectiveness. Human instability also has a negative impact on the central authority. In order to create conditions for an effective owner to enter the field, the President of Ukraine signed Decree 116 on the structural reconstruction of the coal industry on February 7, 1996. It has been implemented by 32 state-owned holding companies based on 253 coal, coal, and other companies served by them, with the status of state-owned open stock companies. During the 1996 - 2001 period 77 enterprises were privatized. In 2002, another 6 enterprises were transferred to the Ukrainian State Property Fund for privatization. To date, Minpalevenergo has 668 coal companies, including, in addition to the above mentioned holding companies and their subsidiaries, 10 other manufacturing companies and 325 independent enterprises. Thus, market forms began to be created in the field. But you have to figure out what form allows, but in itself does not provide the necessary changes in the financial and economic state of the manufacturing entity. The shaft was, and remained, essentially a non-market entity, because it is a corrupt, uncompetitive product, does not provide self - production, requires considerable state support. The market environment for such owners is virtually hostile. This confirms the real situation. In recent years more than 100 coal - mining companies have been transferred to liquidation. Now, there are 165 businesses in the sector that are facing bankruptcy. According to the Lord’s Courts, a property management procedure is introduced in relation to 81 enterprises in Sanitation 70. Of course, more attractive to privatization are auxiliary and service enterprises. These are enrichment factories, transportation organizations, mechanical repair plants. But renting them or changing ownership at a time when coal companies remain state-owned causes bankruptcy to break down the single technology process of producing coal products. In fact, it's a transition to a phase of irreversible collapse in the field. The dramatism of the process is reinforced by the fact that the coal sector is the cornerstone of the energy security and energy independence of our nation. So we are surprised by the persistent recommendations of individual benefactors not to rush into the coal sector, to reconsider, to learn, and so forth. What's going on here? Factors known are bankruptcy, non-payment, inadequacy of organizational form and economic content of enterprises, bankruptcy. Their means of overcoming them are also known and tested in both Ukraine and around the world -- financial recovery, economic balance, institutionalization in line with the economic situation of enterprises and market principles, state protectionism. The U.S. Coal program envisions an anti-congestion algorithm, but it takes between 6 billion and 4 billion dollars a year. The state is unable to provide such support, so other decisions are needed from the mobilization of internal reserves and the involvement of non-state investments. Without technical refuelling, the concentration of mining work on all production and financial resources, without a substantial increase in coal production and increased productivity, which is precisely what the Ministry-driven anti-crisis measures are aimed at, it is impossible to resolve the issues that are being addressed. We don't see any other ways, we don't get any other suggestions. Only the forces for which it is worse can resist it, the better, and those who have been living on the coal industry. And the reorganization clearly hinders their private interests. If we do not reform today, the number and extent of the damage to businesses will increase, which will inevitably lead to the accelerated closure of most of them. There are already 111 coal companies in the liquidation phase, and the cost is not even enough to fully address social and environmental problems. In general, this trend is financed by only 39 percent of the need. In the future, the possible mass closure of mines cannot be considered at all, because because of the deficit, it will stop any work associated with it, transforming the relevant structures of the ministry into social security agencies. In general, the amount of work involved in the elimination of coal companies has grown to such an extent that they need an immediate review of their approaches. Technical issues, productive capitalism, and the social protection of coal miners must remain behind the Ministry, and the environment should be addressed by local authorities to provide them with adequate funding. A major social problem for the sector is the debt from wages to miners. It's now 1.2 billion dollars. After analyzing the structure of the debt in the mines, we concluded that some 70 percent of them would never be able to repay their employees if they were in their present condition. In the end, this problem is an additional burden on the state. On the other hand, some 70 percent of the mines will be able to handle this on their own within a certain period of time. The anti-crisis coal industry program was developed by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy as early as the end of 2000. The strategic direction of this program is to ensure the financial balance of coal producers at the level of expanded reproduction. The revenue from coal should not only ensure the payment of wages, the purchase of the necessary material and technical resources, but also be sufficient to increase the volume of production. So the first item of the program is to increase the production of finished coal by concentrating all the resources on production chains that are capable of providing a return. The second item is a significant improvement and an improvement in the technological standards of high-quality coal products. This measure also works on financial balance, as it significantly reduces the cost of transporting the breed in Ukraine. A task was also set, which at the time seemed fantastic, to provide a percentage of consumers for all the coal products they received. But this task was to be solved, and today it has been decided. The inadequacy of organizational structures in terms of market conditions is that many businesses and holdings are too small to survive in market conditions. There is no critical mass of the product to play. The only production chain is production, wealth, trade, material and technical supply, as well as manufacturing infrastructure are actually broken down by different forms of property, lease, sanitation and so on. There is no possibility of complex cost management and optimization. The terms of implementation of all anti-crisis measures are guaranteed respect for and protection of legitimate interests and rights, social protection for every employee in the field. We have already initiated measures to ensure the quality of coal supplied at the thermal power plant. Arrangements for the concentration of production within a particular factory. A tender for the purchase of goods and materials, energy and other resources. The prices for coking coal and energy coal were optimized and increased. During 2002, all efforts were focused on the quality of coal in terms of the level and scale of the economy of all resources and on the percentage of coal payments by consumers. The main tasks in the implementation of the anti-crisis programme this year are precisely the introduction of the organizational forms of the coal chain that would be able to work effectively in the market environment. To this end, powerful coal companies are being created as unitary enterprises to restore the single technology chain, to ensure efficient spending management and to accumulate development resources. Such a carbon reform scheme, supported by the State Property Fund, has been drafted a joint protocol on concerted action. The main factors that ensure an effective outcome are the concentration of capital, the formation of a powerful manufacturing complex, the increased guarantees of return on investment, the repayment of debt from wages and the gradual approach to increasing it, the increase in resources to address social problems. In fact, at this stage, the problem of compensating the overall deficit of development resources is solved by concentration of funds. This will further introduce productive capacities that will ensure the conservation and growth of carbon. This will objectively reduce the cost of coal production and increase the competitiveness of the sector and its investment attractiveness. We estimate that coal production is expected to increase by 90 million tons per year since 2005. Instead of the 18 holding companies and the six coal mining associations, as well as the 200 companies that are part of them, 20 government coal companies are being created. During January and February, the Ministry carried out active work in areas where it explained the substance of the initial organizational transformations. Government officials from ministries and departments, scientists, and directors of trade unions took part in the campaign. As of today, six state-owned coal companies have been created: Lviv-Ugil, Wolinwogil, Lysican-Kugil, Orzonikidziewgil, Krasnoarmi-Ugil, and Artem-Ugil. So the statutes have been approved, the inventory of property has been carried out, and the state-owned enterprise has transferred the basic funds and the material values to the balance sheet. A balanced plan of mine action from the extraction of anthracite in Lugansk, Donetsk, continues to be sought, and the working group prepares conclusions on the analysis and prospects of the central area of Donbas. Following the implementation of the anti - crisis plan and the achievement of financial balance, enterprises will be able to move to reform by changing their forms of ownership. It is planned to corporateize them, to turn open stock companies into the final stage of reform, the transfer of open stock companies from carbon production to privatization by whole assets. The correctness of this approach is confirmed by the previous restructuring of the well-known coal industries, such as the coal company Shahta Krasnolimanska, the coal company Krasnoarmiska Checket West No 1, the Donbasu Komsomolec Mine. The issue of increasing production volumes and reducing production costs today is crucial. An address state grant for capital construction and development of mines will ensure their profitability. The preparation of new production capacities is a strategic indicator of the stability of the further work of the industry. At the same time, the state cannot provide a sufficient level of capital investment at the expense of only budget allocations. And here's what you need to do to get external funds involved. It is important at the level of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create favourable conditions for investment in the coal sector and for the protection of a working investor. The development of appropriate normative instruments for its implementation should be completed. The proposals also share and support the Supreme Council Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security. The country’s legislative body can do much to enable miners to work safely, to sell their products, and to have a future perspective. There is a need for correction of mining law, electricity laws, bankruptcy, taxation of coal enterprises, especially in the part of the tax on added value and income. The tax system should not be strictly fiscal. Only the first stage of financial recovery of the sector is reaching a percentage of coal production calculations. This allows the whole to stabilize wages, electricity bills, to make some other production costs in minimum quantities. But there is still a situation where the ratio of expenditure and income does not even provide for reproduction. In the current year, unlike previous ones, the government has been providing funding for the maintenance of mines since January. This will allow coal production to be maintained at the level achieved during the year. Today, we have almost 90 percent of the carbon footprints. Our previous calculations show that the restructuring of the sector will reduce this percentage by half and in 2004 by another third. The financial balance of enterprises will allow the restructuring of the creditor’s debt, the final removal of the risk of bankruptcy, and the contribution of the necessary development funds. And here's the extraordinary importance of yesterday's Moratorium Act for the bankruptcy of mining companies. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank you for the great attention you have given to solving the problems of the coal sector. This is confirmed by today’s consideration and by your numerous letters of suggestions and concern for the future. We have created a joint working group on coal reform that includes national MPs, heads of government, heads of industry, and scientists. This cooperation will help to optimize and improve the efficiency of the work that has been started, to solve a powerful layer of social and economic problems, including debt repayment and substantial increase in wages, and to halt the decline in the social sphere of mining. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u19	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, next Nightshenko Yukhnovsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u20	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." Mr. Secretary, when we examined the coal industry, it turns out that the cost of coal varies from mine to mine within very wide limits. In particular, wages vary from about $4 to $16 per annum. Expenses vary in a similar way. And the total cost varies from $12 to $35 per tonne. Here, when you presented these diagrams, it turns out that the average cost of coal is $50 per tonne or $40 per tonne, sorry. At this cost of coal, there is no point in developing coal and dealing with it because Russian coal and Polish coal are very cheap. I think it happened because in this self-sustainment, God knows what's involved, and the mines involved, which are extremely non-profitable. How do you feel about getting out of this position? That's the first question. And the second question. I know that in France and in other countries, a power plant is being merged. Then the system becomes profitable. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u21	Thank you, Igor Raphaelovich for asking. We've met before, discussed other issues. I know your deep knowledge of coal. Today, really, based on the concentration of resources, the concentration of capital, that's first, and secondly, at the expense of spending, the cost reduction that is now in the field of sufficient bartering and the influence of commercial structures, we can get a reduction in spending of 700 million dollars. That's where the diagram shows it. Secondly, really, today, coal mining is inefficiently used because we don't have advanced technology on mines, so we need to increase the efficiency of coal production. This will make it possible to reduce the cost, first of all. It's different. The increase in coal production will, however, allow resource concentration to release the most expensive production chains today. With regard to the merger of coal companies with the generating companies, we started such an experiment in the Lviv region. There today, the creation of such a carbon - generating company, together with Westernergo, begins.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u22	Nightshade Mikola Petrovich. Next Baranowski. Please, Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u23	Dear Sergey Fedorovich, I have listened carefully to your information. I'm not a coal specialist, but all of us, including myself, are specialists in the use of your work, production. You're working to satisfy people's agriculture, population and socio-cultural targets with fuel. Unfortunately, I haven't had half of my socio-cultural assignments in the district, and you know it. I'm a member of the Budget Committee, and I voted for those billions in coal support. There's money for your product. By the way. I didn't hear about what kind of a mechanism would be costing and I'd like you to tell us now what there is to implement coal for the population, socio-cultural objects that are financed from local budgets under this scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. Your question today is a key issue of the existence of a fuel-energy complex in general. I can name some numbers. If a few years ago to buy fuel for the population and the socio-economic sphere. Some 3 million tons of coal were purchased for the heating season, and only 1 million tons of coal was purchased last year. This shows that real housing preparation and the provision of coal to the population today has deteriorated considerably. This leads to people being burned by other sources of energy -- electricity, gas. This leads to higher commercial losses in electricity and gas networks, and this leads to damage to the industry as a whole. Unfortunately, the fuel supply scheme is almost destroyed today. We are ready to provide the required quantity of fuel for fuel, but at the level of local government administrations, we need to restore the supply network to consumers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u25	Barani's Alexander Petrovich, next is Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u26	Alexander Baranowski, faction of socialists. Dear Sergey Fedorovich, how do you figure out that the holiday price for coal mines and then the consumer price, let's say, that uncle in the village in Zitomirsk, I'm doing an example, it's three times more than the holiday price goes to the manufacturer. Where's all this going? How many mediators pass this coal to get to that poor peasant. This is, by the way, reform. And one more thing. The equipment, which is supplied to mines, also passes through dozens of hands, through private firms. And it washes away the budget that is so hard to pay for the mine. And the third question. For hydropower users, individual benefits are provided by the Cabinet of Ministers as a lowering coefficient, for individual, for the required! And what we're saying today is that there's no paying the salary, there's no reason to reform the coal sector, and at the same time, we're giving these benefits. Please tell me if you're going to file an application to cancel these individual benefits, because these benefits are granted by the Cabinet of Ministers, not by the Supreme Council; whether it will continue this way and for all reason the one who burns this coal will die.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u27	Answer the clutch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u28	Thank you. I agree that today -- and this is one of the key issues of our anti-crisis program -- is to destroy the interface between coal mining and its consumer. Today, the previous question was about the supply of fuel, in fact, at the level of raids, these enterprises have already been privatized. And the increase in the cost of production, taking into account its supply, really amounts to times, so it's decreased the purchase of this coal by the population, because it doesn't have the money for it today. We're ready, once again, for high quality cheap fuel, but we need to set up this network together with the district governments, to restore it, of course. We made a deal with the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, with the leadership that we're going to do this pilot project in Crimea this year. In Crimea in the past two years, nearly 100 circuit smithies have not worked, and the population is burned with almost total electricity. This is also true in other areas. We've already made commercial losses in networks at 18 percent, and it's also on the miners' side.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u29	Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u31	Landik, please, Valentin Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u32	With regard to the aids provided, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy denies the granting of artificial benefits, especially to privatized enterprises that exist today. We're now making a proposal to make a difference to the order that exists, for example, for the Zaporezium Aluminum. I think that's what you meant by that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u33	Dear Sergey Fedorovich. Valentin Landik, Ukrainian Region Party. We're very grateful that we had you at our faction meeting, to answer ours. And yet the whole question was that we have to have a program and have a program, and anyway, any restructuring does actually increase coal production. But we understand perfectly, and you know, the costs that This year, which is budgeted, is very small. I'd like to ask you this question: You've already been subjected to Naftogaz of Ukraine today. Maybe you're developing a program like this -- the only program, energy policy, if there's only one energy policy program, what are we going to transform and sell, export only electricity? But the redistribution, for example, of nuclear energy here, Naftogaz, is coal and so on, and so pull the coal industry out of the crisis? So you've got this kind of stuff, and are you going to do the only energy policy in Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy was created from various committees and ministries to introduce a single state policy into a fuel-energy complex. We have today the only fuel-energy balance in the state -- all kinds of energy carriers, their outsourcing and their production in the state. I can only say, unfortunately, that today we haven't optimized this balance enough, and we're working on it. As far as gas supply is concerned, Ukraine, you know, is fully secured in gas supply, but Ukraine is one of the countries that is inefficient in using this resource. And one of the restrictions on the use of this resource is just the lack of coal production. We have examples of investment and involvement of efficient, using government funds in enterprises where coal production started. Coal stocks in Ukraine, you know, in sufficient quantity, for hundreds of years. So today's work, which is about to optimize the balance, reduce the purchase of expensive energy resources, and use of its own resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, just sit tight. The head of the committee will report. Please sit Sergey Fedorovich. The head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Kljev Andri Petrovich, will report. Please turn on the microphone of Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u36	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." I'd like to ask both Mr. Kluev and Mr. Kravchenk to consider one necessary problem and the answer that I would ask you to explain. Each year, at least two billion donations are made from our budget to support the coal industry. I would very much like to say how long will this continue?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u37	Andrew Petrovich, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u38	Shall I answer the question immediately, or may I speak at the outset?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u39	No, you don't have to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The reform of the coal industry is long overdue. The only way to stop the negative processes in the industry is through balanced and carefully prepared actions. The relevant activities should be transparent, their socio-economic results predictable. And, of course, the negative consequences, either they should not be at all or they should be minimal. The restructuring of the coal sector should not address the following challenges and priorities. First, it's a social sphere. So far, the social sectors of coal enterprises have not been fully transferred to the local authorities. As in previous years, local budgets have not been allocated a penny to these articles. Secondly, it is a problem of the debt of the coal industry. You know, the right thing to do is to create big or public companies that extract coal. But if we don't deal with debt restructuring now, the newly created enterprises will also be the same bankruptcies as the same mines or holding companies. The lending debt of coal industry enterprises at the beginning of 2003 amounts to 10.3 billion grevens. At the same time, the receivable is almost 2.5 times smaller, amounting to only 4.2 billion bracelets. With such debts, new companies, public companies will naturally not be able to live and work effectively. The Supreme Council had received a bill on the restructuring of the debt of the fuel and energy complex enterprises. The bill has been considered on the committee. In addition, we had before us a bill from our colleagues in the Committee on Finance and Banking. We agree that, yes, in such a way, it is very difficult that this bill will be passed in the hall. Debt inventory needs to be carried out. Imagine if there were no inventory, and who would do this debt restructuring. This has to be written in a bill. Why? Because the Ministry of Fuel and Energy itself, Sergey Fedorovich, I'm talking to you, too. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy alone will not be able to do this. Twenty-eight billion can't be restructured. But without taking that step, the steps taken by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to reform the coal industry could simply go into solitary confinement. Next. Third. This 20 per cent of mines do not need a government grant for their own costs. At the same time, they produce more than 35 per cent of finished products. 40 per cent of mines receive more than half of public support at cost. At the same time, they produce only 20 per cent. The 85 mines are now bankrupt in industry. Yesterday you and I passed a moratorium on the bankruptcy of mines. And I would like to thank you, colleagues, for the step we have taken with you. It is not humane to bankrupt those enterprises that receive government subsidies simply not humane. Therefore, by enacting this law, I think we are better off in this industry, because if there were public enterprises, there would be debt on them, and if there was no moratorium, you would be perfectly aware of what would happen. Once again, there would be bankruptcy, a new state-owned enterprise. Next. We need to provide effective mechanisms for attracting private investment. First of all, to increase coal production, this is investment in the pattern and distribution of products. There is an appropriate law, but it does not apply in practice. And I believe that, above all, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy must be the initiator for this law to be implemented in life, so that a number of draft decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers are prepared there in order for it to work effectively. Moreover, creating vertical integrated companies, as Igor Rafailović rightly said, is one of the promising ways. Further, I would like to point out that not only should the coal industry or the restructuring of the coal industry be pursued, but special attention should be paid to TECs, to those enterprises that produce thermal energy. You'll see what we've got going on in numbers. January - 67 per cent with heat generation was calculated, February - 75-77 per cent were calculated with heat generation. If so, it will also be March, April, and so on, what is the future of the coal industry? Of course, if the energy market is not calculated with the heat generation, it is not immediately calculated with the coal miners. Therefore, in the draft Supreme Council regulation, there is also the issue of giving more attention to thermal energy than the coal industry. And the last. There's a draft Supreme Council ruling, it's out in the hall. We took into account the committee meeting, literally, all the wishes that the deputies had. There were several draft regulations. And I would like you, colleagues, to support this order in the Chamber. It is not the most important thing to start the reform, but mainly to complete it with the benefit of the industry and for the benefit of the State. And now that we have a holiday and a lot of beautiful women here, I'd like to congratulate all the women on the upcoming holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u41	But there are no women that are not beautiful. Please, Mikola Kravchenko. We agreed, but we approved the rules, agreed that questions to the co-reporters would not be for more time to discuss. We made a deal with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u42	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Cowchenko, the Communist faction. The coal sector has divided politicians, professionals and people into those who understand that the sector, which is 94 per cent of the country's energy balance, should be owned by the State. It should be dated by the State through a well-designed and similar price policy on coal, effectively affecting the cost of the final products of the people's economy. That is what world practice says. In world practice, these critical basic industries are owned, reached and cared for by the State. And there is another group of people to whom it is appropriate not to create, but to destroy, masters who blindly and consistently meet the requirements of the memorandum of the International Monetary Fund on coal mining in Ukraine up to 30 million tons, to release the coal market from abroad without taking into account the economic and social consequences of these decisions. It was these policies that initiated a decline in production in 1991-1995, resulting in increased cost-effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and socio-economic tensions. It was they who ended State subsidies in 1995-1996 and created all the conditions for the closure of mines. It is in 1999-2002 that they have begun a conditionally civilized closure of the mines. That is, during this period, conditions are still met when wages are paid to miners at least. As a result of the above, we have now come to what the Minister has said in his report: the mines have been closed down, and the State has registered in the absence of money. And today we have to solve the problem of closing 61 mines in Donbass. And this reorganization solves nothing but one problem. How to close the 61 mines without paying the salary without spending any extra money. Dear colleagues, in the past, the Supreme Council has repeatedly considered the work of the core coal industry. For the people's deputies who have been re-elected, I will say that the last decree was adopted on 15 November 2001 by 252 votes. The Supreme Council has decided. I would like to draw attention to two paragraphs of this order. First. "Determining that the policy pursued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on mine closure threatens Ukraine's national security and creates additional factors for increasing social tension in the Donbas region and Ukraine as a whole." If this is even the case, I will not go into further detail on the decision - it is important to note that there is work here and that our national security officer is responsible for Marchuku, how is this regulation being implemented today in the State? And instead of glamouring in front of the cameras about our hambath, see what has been done under this decree and how the stability of the State of national security is being undermined today. Instead of doing so, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy has emerged today, a so-called reorganization whose main purpose is to transform from the State-owned coal industry into a collective one with subsequent privatization. I would like to draw your attention to this, provided that there is a Corner of Ukraine programme that is not being implemented to date. Features of reorganization. There is no official document where there is an economic efficiency calculation, no order, no personal responsibility for this experience over the industry. Specially, the coal department, where specialists were, was expanded ahead of the restructuring. You and I, as politicians, can calculate the political and social implications, but professionals have to calculate the industry's programme. The loss of a legal entity by mines is a direct blow to miners, regressors, pensioners. It's all impenetrable. The worst part is that there is no general order under the Ministry. This is being done today as a secret policy. When I answer the question of the people's representative of Assadchev, I will say: yes, I know that we have to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers under the Rules. But what's most interesting is that the restructuring is not today carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of Ermilov, who has not yet agreed, in my view, on matters with the Cabinet of Ministers. Because I believe that I should say my word to the Cabinet of Ministers, at least to the Deputy Prime Minister who is responsible for this problem, especially since there have been problems in the fuel and energy complex, not only in the coal industry, but also in other industries. And today it's so soft on TV. The information that we don't need any more thermal power plants, it's happening. Therefore, respectable colleagues, today's issue is very important for Ukraine's national security. I would like to ask you to consider this issue, to consider a draft of our decision, which we are very much, together with the committee, well, let's say, "agreed" and try to do our utmost to address the issues of such an important core industry as coal. In conclusion, I would like to express my gratitude, return, I apologize, not to announce, thanking the people's deputies for their support yesterday for the bill that was passed by me, Gurenko and the people's deputies, Haro, on the bankruptcy of mines, and thus laying the groundwork for a normal, healthy public policy in this sector. Thank you. Good night.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u43	Let's move on, dear fellows, to the discussion. I'd like to invite you to Michael Wolintz's performance. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u44	Mikhailo Wolintz, Yulia Timoshenko Block. Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! The structure of the world’s organic fuel reserves accounts for 67 percent, oil 18 percent, natural gas 15 percent, and Ukraine’s 94.5 percent, 2 and 2.6 percent. However, the coal sector of Ukraine is in a state of collapse. These are time-consuming and under-calculations for decommissioned coal, the absence of market mechanisms, industrial manufacturing mechanisms running by 70 percent, and the debt on wages is rising. However, a solution was found to deal with the crisis, and in this connection the government of Yushchenka directly under the leadership of Julia Timoshenko developed a program called Coal of Ukraine, but Timoshenko was resigned the day the government approved the program. Then he tried to complete the fuel and energy minister Staszewski, who paid for it -- six months later he was also forced to resign. Today we are at the next stage of funding. I want to make it clear that this program, the reform is not calculated, inconsistent, opaque and therefore aimed at robbing the industry, is a heist that the coal industry just didn't know before. And Jermil was only the perpetrator of such a reform. This is followed by the Deputy Prime Minister, Vitaly Hayduk, who operates the fuel and energy complex. Absolutely. And Jermil himself does not know exactly and consistently what to do next. But the State Department of the Coal Industry was eliminated in order to weaken governance and influence the coal industry. We've got specialists on the loose. The president, however, was convinced that money would also be removed from the coal mine The sectors, quickly removed, will be targeted to partially provide for future presidential campaigns, which is very sad, and the President has believed that. And when the President realized that the situation was the most critical, he went to the Lugansk region and said that it was a program if it wasn't considered by the Cabinet of Ministers and it wasn't worked or calculated. And then the President went to the Dnipropetrov region and canceled the order of the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ermil that he could not do so. At the same time, the President makes the same mistakes because he decrees to privatize the coal enterprises of Pavlovrad. Who did that lead to? Last week, three columns of miners, a few days ago, moved from their mines to the city of Pavlovrad. One group of miners -- 250 people -- went 40 km in winter conditions. And then when you start paying your salary, you throw $2-3 million right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u45	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u46	On these mines, the question began to be resolved. I want to say something else they just don't know about. Today, 13 miners are starving underground in the Lviv region, and this is not mentioned anywhere. I'm asking yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u47	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u48	Yesterday, I asked the director of the Department of Fuel and Energy: Did you know that people under the ground are starving? I don't know. And the other is 47 miners from March 4th are under the ground on the Krippinska mine in Lugansk, and the situation is, I say, the most critical. And after when we really are today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u49	Yes, thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u50	We will decide that this programme is to be banned, this reform programme and the introduction of transparency, and that a new programme will be developed with Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u51	Vladimir Puzakov. Prepare Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u52	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. What restructuring of the coal industry can we talk about today? This is probably another “acceptance” sale from hammer to private investors in the basic industry in Ukraine, where the owners will be those who benefit from importing goods and commodities from abroad. No one can guarantee that an investor will work for the development of enterprises. The State had forgotten the social consequences of privatization. As always before the sale, the plant will have to be cleaned by kindergartens, hospitals, cultural houses, libraries. Throw it all to self-sustainment. The question will be: who benefits from such a restructuring, in particular the coal industry, because coal is the only energy carrier in Ukraine to guarantee its economic independence. Although our State is doing everything for money, it is ready to sell even all strategic industries. Of course, it would be good if the restructuring programme had the primary objective of enhancing coal mining and reducing cost-effectiveness. Well, a reduction in the cost of coal and without technical re-arms today can be said to be changing coal into potatoes in villages, and a bucket of coal is a bucket of potatoes. Such a restructuring has long been carried out in the Kirovograd region at the state holding company Alexanderiaugol. And the consequences can be seen. If the Soviet authorities included three mines, six incisions, two briquette factories, heat plants, support plants, and the number of workers was 20,000, all three mines were destroyed and flooded in years of so-called independence, not even equipment removed. What was on the surface was placed on scrap metal, giving a reasonable amount of money for it. But where the money goes, nobody knows. At least not to pay off debts on wages and not on the social sphere. Two incisions - Balakhovsky and Verbolosowski were buried. The remaining bridges and stepping excavators weighed several thousand tons also went into scrap metal and the money evaporated again. Bricet factories and TECs are breathing in the frankincense. Every winter, the villages of Dimitrov, victory, Oktavrski are constantly frozen by accidents in TECs. Bricket factories that provided the private sector of Kirovogradska, Poltavska, Odessa, Vinnitsk oblasts have reduced the production of briquettes ten times today. At present, about 8,000 people work in the holding company Aleksandriaugol. Wages amount to more than 10 million bracelets. The 1 million million tons of coal per year in 2001 was cut in constant capacity, with only 599,000 tons and fewer in 2002. In Soviet times, only one Bidekovska briquette factory produced 3,000 tons of briquettes and worked in three shifts. Here's progress and restructuring and improvement in all spheres of the economy. At least that's what the President of Ukraine Kuchma says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u53	Please, Viktor Ivanovich Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u54	I've been saying a lot, watching before I give my word, you know. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the distinguished people's deputies, the distinguished Vladimir Mihajlovich, speak very much here today. Before that, we've heard how everyone cares about the problems they have today, the negative is our coal industry. But I would like to emphasize today that we, the people's deputies, from the first assembly knowingly have also helped the coal industry today get what it has today. Budget funding was called billions today. This year, the industry needs 5.2 billion. There is a programme entitled “Ukrainian Coal”, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Give me 2.7, 50 percent. Maybe there's a industry that's normal, that's how it's evolved? No, of course not. But I would like to raise one more question today. Today, reforms are planned. There will be no reform, Sergey Fedorovich, if we don't pay our wages today. Today, current wages are simply catastrophic. Today, Volynec called, people sitting in a mine, in Lviv, sitting in Lugansk district of Crepensko, there's no pay today at Luganskugle. They're talking about women today, that's great. But today, can miners congratulate their wives? They don't even have bread today. I'm turning from this rostrum today. An extremely difficult situation with pay. And I'm asking you, as Minister, to clear up and pay the miners their wages. Now, to be specific. Today, the MPs, here we are discussing Mintopenergo, and we must answer the question of how to address the situation in the industry, the actions of Mintopenergo and our decisions. This question is whether Ukraine needs the coal industry as the basis for energy independence as a raw material base of steel and energy as the socio-economic foundation of the economy as a whole. If not, then the recently adopted Mintopenergo becomes understandable and correct. The Ministry's management is taking further steps to rid itself of the industry of so much trouble. If Ukraine needs the coal industry, then the actions of Mintopenergo and other ministries are difficult to understand in terms of normal logic. The issue of industry reform, restructuring was discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Topple Energy Complex, on 4 February. We held a meeting in our coal regions and there was a meeting of the President, where we stressed that reforms should take place. In the industry, a public approach is needed. And the Ministry will not solve these problems itself, because our coal industry today is linked to taxes, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Committee on Humanity. We have therefore proposed the establishment of a working group that has finally been established. The programme should be developed and considered by the board of the Ministry with the participation of trade unions and local authorities, approved and joined the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers should consider and support if we want to make sector reforms painlessly. And I am addressing colleagues, distinguished people's deputies, I ask you, we must adopt a number of laws. Yesterday we passed the Bankruptcy Act on coal enterprises. Thank you. We need to adopt the Restructuring Act. We need to adopt a number of legislation to help today and, indeed, to remedy the situation in the industry, especially the people who work in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u55	I invite Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich to prepare Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. Think about what's going on. I've got a program in my hands called Ukrainian Coal. This program was first approved by the government of Yushchenko, then. You know, it was the beginning of the end of Yushchenko and Timoshenko. Then it was developed by Minister Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich, and then approved by the government of Kinah, the Cabinet of Ministers decree of September 19, 2001 number 1205. Without cancelling the Ukrainian Coal programme, coal reform begins. I would like the entire people of Ukraine to understand what these reforms are. The government budget for the coal sector is nearly 3 billion dollars without a penny. And how are they used? Just yesterday, I emphasize, only yesterday, the Ministry of Finance approved the sectional distribution of the economic programme. Before that, Mintopenergo was hand-splitting. What, though, should be done in such a state? In such a state, criminal matters must immediately be violated, for this is provided for in the law. What are we doing, ladies and gentlemen? Or the famous President's decree to privatize Pavlovugil. What, there is no Business Law? What, there is no Ukrainian Law on Lists of Objects That Are Not Privatized? All these laws exist. Today we see an answer to why the Law on the Fund of State Property is not being passed. You remember that he was brought here twelve times. And because it's convenient for 250 legal persons to do 21st now, in the murky water to find everything that's needed, and for what it's lowering the price of coal in general. And to get over the profits in the metal market. And why did they start with Pavlovogeel? Why was the President's order there directed? But because 50 percent of the coke and 50 percent of the energy is coal, it's the kind that comes to the son-in-law. Your Honor, don't you know that? And then, where is the money that is underprivileged, why anti-dumping measures against Ukraine? And the money's in offshors. Therefore, honorable friends do not have to privatize the Nadra Act. And there is no need to confuse reform with stealing from the people. What Mintopenergo is doing today, including eliminating State Administration. The State Department of Coal Industry, in order to weaken state control, is stealing. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u57	Thank you. Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Zločevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u58	I'll do my best. You know, I'm very calm. Dear National Deputies! Dear Sergey Fedorovich! What, then, is another pseudoreform in the coal sector? From my point of view. From the point of view of the Socialist faction of Ukraine. First. Manual control in determining the prospective and doomed shafts. You yourself, without any order from the Ministry, determine which mine is assigned to which category. The other one. Privatization plans, favored objects, as stated in your program, to transform corporate debt. Third. The collapse of mining villages and the destruction of the social infrastructure of the mining region through budgeting without any infrastructure subsidies. What's wrong with the Department of Topenergo? Actually, there's no program. Because the Ukrainian Coal Program is off-limits, there's no order, and no one knows what works are objectively, how do pharmaceuticals exactly balance in holdings or in state-owned enterprises with corrupt and profitable mines. The other one. According to the comments on concentration and financial assistance in terms of prospects for increased coal mining in mines, there is no answer to what to do with mining villages where unprofitable mines are located. The example is Ukrainian, which has been frozen for a few years in a row, where there is actually an extraordinary situation, people are just dying out there, showing the nonsense of reform for economic reasons only. With an underestimation of social facts. Third. How do you get the carbon out of the shadows? How can we put an end to the banditry of the 200 commercial structures behind which hundreds of other mediators stand? When will pricing be controlled for technology, for coal mines? After all, when I'm asked why does the coal government go from 200 dollars to 120-150, and then the middleman sells it again to 300 dollars? Who's going to explain to me where state control is and control of the Ministry? And the main question. When will the privatization of the government's coal grant cease? I understand the slogan of many who work in this area: "In coal you have to invest in such a way that it doesn't hurt painfully for money that's uselessly invested." But, Sir Sergey Fedorovich, almost 3 billion donations. It's mostly about dating coke coal, and it's clear to everyone that the biggest revenue is then sitting with coxochemists and metallurgical factories. At the same time, no one thinks about coal subsidies for energy, and accordingly our population receives unrealistic prices in housing-communal tariffs. And the last. The ministerial pseudoreforms, in view of the socialist faction of Ukraine, have already been rated by the main miners, who announced the strike on March 3. I think that these reforms are thoughtless, harmful and that we should go back to this room with the ministry and the deputies of the real one to improve the situation of the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u59	People's MP Zločevski from the faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Get ready for Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, respected by Sergey Fedorovich, after hearing your report, we all understand the objective of reform: raising coal enterprises to market economy levels. Above all, we can preserve the State's participation in the development of the coal industry. In 2003, the imbalance in the coal industry would amount to 2.3 billion bracelets. This could lead to a deterioration in working conditions, an increase in the risk of new accidents and, as a result, new human casualties, which I do not see as an alternative to reform in the coal industry, in mines that do not have sufficient resources to pay wages, acquire technologies for mining, materials and equipment. There is no secret that coal, together with government subsidies, is not enough to cover its costs, and the number of coal suppliers is a clear example of the unguilty robbery of the industry. It seems that only the sloth in Ukraine does not deal with coal trade. Having left 20-25 coal suppliers and making their work transparent, we can greatly improve the work of enterprises, so there is an objective need to improve the organizational structure of the industry. However, the main result of this reform should be to improve the standard of living of miners. It cannot be seen that the wages of miners are 17 places in the country, with a debt of 1.2 billion bracelets. The concept of reform of the coal industry should therefore clearly address all these issues. In general, I support the reform programme, and I believe that this bold step has been taken through a comprehensive analysis of industry cases and to prevent processes that could lead to its total destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u61	Peter Oliynik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u62	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Why did we bring the coal sector to this state? There are, of course, objective reasons. The objective reasons must also be borne in mind that there was a fixed price that did not cover expenses and a lack of subsidies and incalculation in the coal sector. For example, on the arrival of the Yushchenka government, 50 million were gathered for energy, and after Yushchenka's government left, 850 million dollars, or 10 billion Victor Andriyovich and his government were removed from the shadows. The fourth objective is the introduction of a tax, a tax system that does not correspond entirely to the coal sector. Why is this happening? Why did this happen? Why is the coal sector being torn apart all the time? And because Ukraine does not have the concept of reforming the fuel and energy complex. To whom are the sympathetic United States of America, I want to point out that they have sixteen variants of events. To whom is a sympathetic Russia nine options, and in Ukraine there is no concept. What I'm going to say is that I don't have a concept, I'm going to use our "Friendship" pipeline. The president of Ukraine today says that we need to build the Dugdansk, the prime minister does, China is coming to UCP today, and someone on our committee is calling for the privatisation of the "Friendship" oil pipeline. I've rarely seen any ministry staff working against the government and against the President. And unfortunately, that's what we have today. Subjective reasons need to be taken to mean that after the stagnation, a colossal corruption began in the coal sector. I have cited many examples of mine payments for unpaid electricity for fines for tens of millions of dollars. There were 493 decrees, and they were responsible for the money. When money was washed, for example, when it was delivered for the money of the combines, the year of graduation was 90. Prices rose in Ukraine on the garage, as alternative machinery began to produce equipment in garages on the knee. Real reforms are needed because coal miners are cold and hungry today. And these real reforms need to start with the concept. At the meeting held by Vladimir Mikhailovich, you promised that legislative acts would be carried out, and you would carry out your word. Unfortunately, too many laws are not the only ones we need to implement today. So today, of course, we need to support the draft decision prepared by our committee, because today they want to block the full reform of the coal sector. On the other hand, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy should not go under the same ridge, the working group should work transparently, and it should be not only a transparent work of the coal industry, but also a transparent reform, because today, if we create a state-owned enterprise, you now know that dozens of creditors today are standing to bankrupt it. So please support our committee's proposal and start a real job. Thousands and thousands of miners and millions of those behind them are asking you to do so. Thank you. And for those of you who say today that our coal is ineffective, I want to point out to you. One percent of the decline in coal production in Ukraine increases by two or three percent the price of Polish and other imported coal. Notice that the price of our coal has a large component of taxes and a large component of wages. And that's why we need to take this very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing this discussion. Sergey Fedorovich, do you have a closing word?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u64	I would like to thank all the deputies who participated in the discussion. I'm hoping for cooperation. And the Department of Fuel and Energy will take all your comments into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u65	I would ask the committee to elaborate on the draft ruling, taking into account the discussion that took place here, so that we can adopt it on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on regulation of legal relations in the assessment of property is being announced for consideration. Communicator of Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please. Is Mikhail Vasilovich there? Please let Chechov go. In five minutes, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u66	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! According to the final provisions of the Ukrainian law on the valuation of property, property rights and so on. The evaluation activity in Ukraine" adopted by the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has been introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law aimed at bringing Ukraine's other laws into line with these laws. The project is to amend the 12 laws of Ukraine, which contain legislative and organisational issues regarding the performance of property valuation, namely the Business Act of Ukraine, the Business Act of Ukraine, the Business Associations Act of Ukraine, the Contradiction Act and others. The planned changes to these laws are the following. First. This is the unification of a comprehensible apparatus, of all laws aimed at avoiding differences in their execution. The other one. The Evaluation Act does not contain the term "expert evaluation." The Evaluation Act, this estimate is called an independent property assessment. Third. All laws comply with the Evaluation Act, organizational issues, independent evaluation. Such an assessment is carried out by evaluation entities, farm entities recognized as such in the order established by the valuation legislation. Four. All laws have changed where necessary, the concept of price for value, because according to article 3 of the Evaluation Act, valuation is a process of determining the value of property. Fifth. It is included in all the laws of the Evaluation Act in the part of the methodological valuation, namely, the assessment should be carried out in accordance with the regulations, the national valuation standards, which should be approved by the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Evaluation Act. Six. Some laws are supplemented by the requirement of an independent evaluation in accordance with the contract of the evaluator, the subject of farming, which is made up of a defined article of the Eleventh Evaluation Act. The adoption by the Supreme Council of this law will facilitate the establishment of a single approach to the regulation of all legal relations that occur during the assessment of property in all cases. The law does not require additional material costs for its execution, which is that the law makes appropriate consequential changes to other laws in accordance with the basic law on the valuation of property. We propose to support the bill as proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u67	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Yes, please sign up. Five minutes to ask. Light up on the board. Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u68	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, Lucenko, socfraccia. That's my question. Does this law solve the problem of income that so-called experts are getting, which usually comes from the faction of the SDPI(o) during the privatization of our country's major objects?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u69	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, the purpose of the bill today is to make corresponding correspondence changes, according to the basic law on evaluation in other laws where the assessment is made. I mean, it's responding to changes in the part of the understandable apparatus. This law just doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u70	Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u71	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! Of course, we're talking about an evaluation and we've estimated half of Ukraine's assets at $1 billion in the United States for which we're now selling. So you have to think, I mean the consequences of privatization as a whole, so now you have to think about the changes that have been made. I wanted to ask you. The proposed changes to the law on enforcement are foreseen that the assessment of the debtor’s assets, in addition to the money, should be carried out in accordance with legislation on the valuation of property, property rights, and professional valuation activities. So these actions will require huge amounts of so-called, independent asset assessors, including for valuation of small assets. Would it not make it more difficult to enforce judicial and other binding decisions? That's my question. And is it going to be better than the adoption of this law and the evaluation of the holding fund lately? You probably know that I didn't ask a single question about the valuation of a lot of serious companies. Including the shares of Poltava there by the oil and gas company, a North-Southern power supply company, where there is an underestimation of 160 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u72	Yes, thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. I repeat that this law. The purpose of this law is to make appropriate correspondenceal changes to those laws where this is partly about evaluation in accordance with the basic valuation law. What's affected is what's going to change the methodology. Yeah, we're really working on new approaches right now. new positions, new normative documents with a view to enhancing the effectiveness of the evaluation by assessing that the evaluation actually corresponds to the actual situation in the enterprise that is going to privatize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u74	Anisim, a faction of Communists. Take the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u75	Thank you Vladimir Mihajlovich Dear Mikhail Vasiljevic, whether your law takes into account changes in the assessment of the core funds of our enterprises, because we all know that it is underestimated tens and hundreds of times. Far from following the examples, our metalworking combination of the name of Djrjinsky, is estimated at 600 million bracelets, estimated at the time when the dollar was worth two bracelets. The dollar has now grown at a price and the estimate remains the same. In addition, the latest new business in our company at its estimated cost, at the cost of building 100 million Soviet roubles, is also about 500 million bracelets. And the entire factory was valued at 600 million bracelets. How to correct this imbalance and whether it is taken into account in the law you are proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u76	Thank you so much for asking. Thank you for asking. I repeat that in this bill, this is a question that you asked, it does not find. But what I'm trying to say is that it's touching the evaluation of the Dezhinsky factory, the evaluation until it's done. And if it's done, it's going to be a lot different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u77	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. From the committee, the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy. the management of the national economy, property and investment of Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjokhin. Please, Vladimir Anatoliyovich. It's very short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill on 14 January and decided to recommend the adoption of the bill on first reading as a basis. The findings of the Chief Expert Office also indicate that, in general, it is possible to base first reading on the comments made and proposals made. The bill has been drafted pursuant to section 7, paragraph 2, of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Property Assessment, Property Rights and Occupational Evaluation Act and aims to introduce a number of laws in accordance with the provisions of the Act. The scope of amendments to existing legislation may be characterized by the provision of amendments to twelve existing laws, which contain rules relating to the assessment of property, rights and evaluation activities. In the Committee's consideration of the bill, among other comments, it was suggested that the mandatory assessment of the sale of small-scale privatization facilities should be deleted, and a compromise rule was proposed on the conduct of such an assessment by the privatization body, as appropriate. In general, the Committee believes that the adoption of the bill will promote a unified approach to regulating all legal relationships arising from the assessment of property. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u79	The question is to our colleague? I can't see. Yes. Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u80	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter! By proposing this law to be adopted on a basis, you didn't say, but does the committee that is now proposed to replace the term "priority" with "initial value"? Do you distinguish the right meaning, and how will this end for the people of Ukraine? That's the difference, that's the game between those words -- the original price and the original cost. You realize that there are so many inadequacies here that we need to correct right now literally in order not to allow those failures that have already been made by estimate that we have -- that there are inadequacies -- we also have to blame ourselves, on the Supreme Council. So what do you think about serious very, very conceptual things like that for me, a lawyer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u81	We believe that, of course, such nuances may be enough, but there is a second reading, and we need all the comments, to take into account the suggestions not to repeat the mistakes that have already taken place. Before that, you were talking about that over the years we've only sold property for a billion dollars. There is such a moment and it is with great pleasure that your comments are taken into account. Let's work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u82	Thank you. I don't see any more. Let's move on to the discussion. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Prepare Semenyuk. You can take your time, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, let's not take a break at 1:00.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear National Deputies! The changes that are being proposed -- I'll start at the end -- can be taken as a basis, of course. But only in the first reading, and with substantive work. I am grateful to our expert office, which has offered serious conceptual things. I wanted them to be heard. In particular, in order to be heard that the amendments to Ukraine's laws on privatization of small state-owned enterprises and on privatization of state-owned property are proposed to replace the term "start price" with the term "start price" with the original value, I emphasize. You can't agree with this change because the most important thing in making a sales contract is the price of the property, not the value of the property, and this should be seen as the basis for determining the price. This also applies to comments on article 14 of the Law on the peculiarities of the privatization of unfinished buildings. In this regard, we must not make these terminology changes to privatization laws, and here we are subject to many laws. I also think that we can't change the Act on Executive Conduct, and this is paragraph seven of this law, where it's completely different to make an assessment. And I want to illustrate a little example of how the position might affect, and I want to draw the attention of the State Property Fund, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, who is now headed by an illegal person, Mr. Pritika, to what, see how the assessment takes place. It is said that the State Property Fund sells 35 percent of the shares of the Ukrainian Metallurgical Company for 89 million dollars, independent experts estimate that share of 250 million dollars. Obviously, why is this being done? I looked at whether or not the demands had been violated. I look at it this way: paragraphs 4, 60 of the State Privatization Program for 2002, article 16 of the Law on Privatization of State Property, a position approved by the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Securities Commission. Artificially, conditions have been created under which the circle of potential buyers has been narrowed down considerably. It just takes the State Property Fund to push more conditions than it needs to, and that's how it's done. In order for this not to happen, this law must clearly record all warnings. And I'm going to Mr. Chechtov to take care of those questions about the North Coal Coal Coal Coal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u84	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk is the head of the control commission. Please. get ready for the platinum. Are you gonna be out of town or out of the rostrum? Oh, out of the way. Turn on the microphone, please, Valentina Petrovna's Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u85	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, the bill that's been submitted, it needs to be processed at many times, taking into account the scientific expertise department, but it needs to be accepted for a few reasons. First. Today, several organizations are actually privatizing in the process of privatization legislation -- both specialty and specialties, today and the Ministry of Defence -- I don't say anymore -- because of the delegation made by notarial offices. But if we want the only property assessment system to be as a methodology, this bill needs to be adopted, because these are the only standards, and we need the State Property Fund, still with the appropriate control function for licensing this kind of activity, to be able to ask about the quality of the assessment, about the quality of the work of a privatization enterprise, more loyally preparing for privatization. These standards have to be met, given that we have passed the accounting law. We have the relevant documents that apply to the ESA-900 -- the only standards that give us the right to carry out the only standard assessment that is now used in many civilized countries and in European countries in the single accounting system. So I think that this bill needs to be adopted, we're going to have to consider this issue on a special committee, and we're going to have to make our specific proposals with respect to accounting and the opinion of the scientific and expert department that, in fact, the difficulties involved in making changes should be taken into account in parallel, but at the same time, we need to assume more, nevertheless, the legal responsibility of the evaluators for providing information, for the reliability of the accounting documents, because without the reliability of the accounting documents, which sometimes go very quickly, allows us to make an assessment at a lower price today, and more so that when these issues apply to the same firms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u86	Plástinski National Deputy, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u87	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, employees of the Housing Fund and anyone who has a direct bearing on this law! The Social Democratic Party of Ukraine and its faction have been actively working in the process of preparing, together with the specialists of the State Foundation, the bill and proposes to be adopted on first reading with a view to further developing it. To speak today about the need for a qualitative assessment of the facilities is not even beyond doubt, it is necessary. Today, this is the main part of the preparation of the privatization plan itself. Privatization plans have been disrupted from year to year, and the income part of the State budget has been affected. As a result of this social consequences, I will not stop them. The plan, which for the current year is $2 billion 100 million, is set out in the draft and already in the Budget Act, needs to be implemented, and the first stage is evaluation. I ask you to support this bill, to support its developers, and on second reading, we will finalize it in more detail, make proposals, but it is certainly a 100 per cent necessity to adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u88	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, there is such a pattern of legislative activity that the adoption of one law makes it necessary to amend other laws. The adoption of the Property Assessment and Occupational Evaluation Act has led to the need to make appropriate changes to 12 laws. And it is in this bill that these changes are proposed to bring into line all of the things that apply to the valuation of property in other laws into the framework law, the basic law on property valuation and professional valuation activity. Property valuation is Achilles ’ fifth Ukrainian privatization. It was because of the insurmountability of many problems in assessing property that we suffered significant losses. First of all, the state budget of Ukraine. And of course, that's the question at the intersection of interests. And for a very long time, we couldn't pass the Property Assessment Act, because it was convenient in the calamite water to fish. And this law is not perfect, but it is a step in the right direction. And now we are obliged, I share the opinion of the deputies who have expressed themselves on this point to make appropriate changes to other laws. Why is this necessary? This is necessary in order to ensure that there is no conflict in the various laws. And to ensure the independence of the assessment, which is extremely problematic. It's the question of the independence of the evaluation. Increasing the effectiveness and objectivity of the evaluation is extremely problematic. There will also be work to be done on this issue. We now have in the committee a bill on the valuation of property that is on the re-first reading, that we are working on and preparing for the session hall. Special features of the valuation of small businesses should be reflected in these laws. And the committee is also working on this issue. And finally, about what was said here, about the substitution of concepts. In fact, this bill is designed to change the concept of this law. In particular, it's about replacing the original price with the original price. I don't think it's something that's so scary because the price is a monetary expression of value. And it needs to be an adequate cost and price. And that's what the bill is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u90	Thank you. The draft law of 2033 on amending certain laws of Ukraine on the regulation of legal relations in the assessment of property has been completed. We'll make a decision when we vote. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure on the exemption of executive authorities from the payment of expenses for information, technical security of the judicial process is being announced for consideration. Reporter of the Deputy Head of the State Tax Administration, Operanko Georgiy Mikolayovich. Is there a George Mikolaiovich? Please, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u91	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Ukrainian law, proposed to your mind, adds to article 47, paragraph 1, and article 49, of the Master’s Procedural Code. The development of this project is caused by the need to eliminate the contradictions that arise from the application of the rules of effective legislation when generating government duties and other judicial expenses for the authorities of the State. Article 49 of the master’s procedural code of Ukraine provides for compensation to the party in favour of which the Lord’s Court ruled, a duty at the expense of the other party, even when the party is exempt from the payment of a public duty. By amending the Ukrainian Law of June 21, 2001, issue 2539 on the amendment of the Arbitration Procedure Code, the costs of information technology provided by the judicial process became a form of legal expenses subject to compulsory payment under articles 57 and 62 of the master’s procedural code. If it is not proven that this payment has been made, the court will not consider any appeals to him, to the defendant. In the past year, the number of cases has increased considerably, a party to which the executive authorities speak. You'll understand when Law 2181 was passed, practically through the courts these organs work, including the Tax Office has felt it very much on itself, and it's only increased in a year to half of our appeals to the courts. While the budget, both in the past years and this year, is not budgeted for this whole year. So the government is proposing exemption from payment of expenses for information and technology provision for the judicial process of executive authorities. This issue will enable a more expeditious process of judicial review and the protection of state interests. Thank you for your attention. Additional material and other expenses are not required by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u92	Thank you, George Mikolaiovich. Is there a desire to ask a question to the reporter? Please sign up. National deputy of the school. Get ready for Melniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u93	Dear reporter! Well, you know, when you take out the executives of the compulsory payment, someone has to pay for these expenses, but they do. So that doesn't mean you're saying that no cost is going to be borne. This is going to cost the budget. Either way, it's going to have to cover the costs that the court will pay, the material, the listening, the recording of the trial, it's going to cost anyway. Someone's got to cover them. Who? Why do those organs that have colossal buildings, in particular, let's go to any city in Ukraine and see what a kindergarten looks like, what a district council looks like and what a tax inspection looks like? Really? Previously, the parties did not allow themselves in the communist era to build such luxurious palaces that are now being built by tax inspection. And they felt something else on them. They can't afford to pay court fees. I don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. I emphasized in my statement that this was not just about the tax service. This is true of the executive authorities. The judiciary is also on the budget. And the executives are also on the budget. And if you put the same budget into the same budget, I also can't understand that you're transferring those funds that don't depend on the maintenance of the executive branch. And that stops the trial. It's these costs that are on, like, what do they say, form making, paper, paper and so on. What's being built, well, I want to tell you that it doesn't apply to this question, but I'll answer you. Well, I think we should go to a better place. And do it for years. And not just for the taxpayers, but for the taxpayers, so that they would be happy to come in and pay taxes with a smile. I'm going to say yes, because that's also going to take conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u95	People's MP Melniczuk, Soccer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u96	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Gregory Mikolayovich, you're in a good mood. I support the National Deputy of School, but I want to point out that if we go to a better place, we need the people to be close to this better one. This is a completely different picture. But that's not what I'm talking about. Please tell me how you now appreciate the technical capabilities of our courts. Because we know that under the law, if there is no technical provision for judicial proceedings, someone is loved who is convicted or accused of refusing to participate or, so to speak. is meant that when the court takes a decision, he may charge that no technical security has been provided in his conviction. How do you appreciate it? Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u97	Well, we've proposed a rate of exemption from payment of expenses that the courts charge only to budgetary institutions, only budgetary institutions! - I emphasize which on the budget is the same as the courts. And the courts have their own expenses. How can I say that? Costors also have expenses for these purposes. And once again, I would like to point out that there is no such article in any of the budgets or in any of the resources of the ministries or departments that are in the state budget, in keeping, in order to count the costs to the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u98	People's Deputy Oneschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u99	National Deputy Oneschuk, faction of the political parties of the industrialists and entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine. Gregory Mikolaiovich, the initiative of the government on the legislative settlement of this problem is timely and understandable. Because there really can't be a situation where there's a legal provision above the legal level, because at the initiative of the Supreme Court, this problem is somehow solved, but we have to try to ensure the only legal order and the only requirements for all the subjects who apply to the court, and if there is an exception, it's only by law. In this regard, you have two questions. First. What's the total cost, for example, from last year's work -- if you had information -- would be paid by the authorities of the state executive in the event that these charges would have taken place, i.e. the payment of this tax on information and technology services. That's the first question. And the second. The government can solve this problem, as you have rightly pointed out, in two ways. The first way is to get rid of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u100	Questions, please make them clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u101	I'll make it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u102	It's been a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u103	I'll make it up. And the second approach is to anticipate the cost of the state budget for these costs. How do you do, why do you prefer it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u104	Well, first of all, I'll give you the first question. The fare is 69 bucks. As soon as the IRS says there were 75,000 lawsuits. You multiply by each other, you get about 4 million dollars. More importantly, on the second question, well, the most difficult and most difficult thing to do is to fund public institutions. And I have such high expectations, it's my personal opinion that this will be included in spending, very little. Better yet, the way the government has proposed. And why? Because I say again, this is nonsense: one budget pays another budget and it falls, it stays in the same budget, it's just going from one authority to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u105	Thank you, sit down, please. And I invite Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin to the report. Very briefly, Yuri Anatolyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u106	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, two bills are now being tabled for your consideration: Bill 1099, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which has just reported, and Bill 2495, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Karmazin and Ratushniak, which is why I have a slightly more difficult task, and I will speak on two drafts. So, if it's the first bill you've just heard and the answers you've heard that Mr. Operank was proposing here. The point is to free only the executive authorities from paying the costs of the information and technical security of the court and it is provided that the compensation of the State's duty and other costs that are relied on by the authorities of the state executive authority is made at the expense of the State budget in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the question is: How can other people, citizens, protect their rights? This is to avoid this disagreement with the Constitution, and to compare the rights of citizens and legal persons with the rights of legal persons in the executive branch, we have introduced a bill to amend the Code of Procedure. We propose to cancel the cost of information and technical support to the court when it comes to disputes in Ukrainian courts. The payment of the cost of this security is mandatory before the application is made to the household court. With the adoption of this bill, the judge will not be able to return the application without considering that the plaintiff has not been provided with evidence of payment of the costs of information and technology to the court. The existence of such a component of judicial expenses is contrary to the current legislation of Ukraine. The government's duty is essentially to pay for the court's work on the dispute. The payment of the State moment of the dispute in the Economic Court is intended to compensate the costs associated with the dispute, including the costs of information and technical support to the court. The government's duty, which deals with the requests made by the courts of agriculture, is included in the State Budget, is provided for by the Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. According to valid legislation, the activities of the courts are financed by the State Budget of Ukraine. This is provided for in article 130 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 120 of the judiciary law, and article 2 of the law on sources of funding for public authorities. So by paying the government's fee, the plaintiff is actually already paying for the information and technology costs of the trial. Moreover, in the courts of general jurisdiction, which is much greater when you see it in statistics and all MPs see what's going on, much more loads than in domestic courts, there is no collection of additional sums in the form of compensation for the costs of information and technology provision in the court. That is why this approach has been supported by the Committee on Legal Policy by supporting our bill and asking such questions as should be and thus supported by the Scientific and Experimental Authority has also supported our bill. So I would like us to come to that understanding. I had a very difficult task -- two laws to report right away. I've done my job.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u107	Thank you. No questions? Yes. Sergei Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u108	I thank you for giving me your word. I'd like to point out that when this assembly was introduced for security, it was introduced earlier, let's say, at the level of recommendation, then it became mandatory. But, let's say, today's payback is coming from the side that lost the case. Then I just didn't understand the tax position. It's better if you win, and then you get everything you spend, and it's not going to rain down a lot of cases, and then the statistics show that things are off, the decisions are being reviewed, and so on. I fully support your bill, and I would like to point out once again that it would probably be necessary to completely reject the bill that was passed by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u109	Thank you for asking, Sergey Ivanovich. I want to remind you that this tax was an interesting one. He was first introduced by decrees, that is, not in the legal order, and was not brought into legal order. And all the officials who had to react to it were silent in the state. And then you and I, the legislators, established this order. Now the executive authorities, who saw how it ends, what it's worth paying for, and that's what they have to pay from the government wallet, they're failing, and what they have to say about the businesses that today are overwhelming us with complaints that there are such issues. So that's exactly what your proposal looks like.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u110	Vladimir Kirilovich, Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u111	Dear Yuri Anatolyovich, you have practically failed to express your attitude toward the government bill. Do you think it's worth supporting a proposal from a Slabenko MP who thinks it's worth adopting a bill that the government doesn't? What should be done is to free individuals, legal persons, but not to free the public authorities from the payment of this congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u112	Thank you. Vladimir Pilipovich, you're a professor, you're an academic, you know that Sergei Ivanovich Slabenko is right, because he only spoke about legal persons because they are the parties to the operation of the Master's Procedural Code, and he proposed exactly what I proposed to reject the government project completely as violating article 130 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It still violates the equality of the parties, the equality of citizens, and many other articles of the Constitution. But unfortunately, we did it with you here in the hall, and now we're still seeing this sequel.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u113	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u114	Your Honor, I have a question for you as head of the Committee on Legal Policy. Why didn't your committee reject it and bring a government bill to the session hall. You've just practically taken the question out of your mouth, it violates the articles of the Constitution. That's why you couldn't take it. We're the higher legislature. Why would we discuss a project that was to be rejected and not presented by the committee? And of course, supporting this bill, which is totally democratic, and that that simplifies the situation in the courts, doesn't complicate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u115	Dear Andriy Vasilovich, the charges against the Committee of Legal Policy are completely unfounded because the Cabinet of Ministers is the subject of a legislative initiative defined by the Constitution. And the right of the committee is to express its opinion and determine whether it is in conformity with the Constitution or whether it is in conformity with the legal policy that is being implemented or not. And that's what the committee's saying with my mouth right now. This thought: Definitely not, does not fit the Constitution, does not fit the legal policy, and so on. And this is the right to reject only you, the national MPs who are represented in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u116	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u117	Dear listeners, distinguished national MPs. Of course, I will take the advice of my predecessor and urge you to exercise our right and reject the government project. A government project is just a formal approach. And in this formal approach, a whole series of mistakes were made, including the violation of the articles of the Constitution and in general from the very beginning of this from the payment of duties ahead of the trial, well, you want to believe you do not, but it reminds me of bribes, you have to pay first to have your application examined or accepted. And it doesn't matter whether the payment is normal or not, but it still requires a certain culture of communication between the plaintiff and the institution to which the application is made. So I think that even here, in principle, it would be logical for the government not to defile its name, just to call off this bill as imperfect and to support or propose to Bill 2495, so that it goes well into the session room, so that we can finally, I say again, untangle the situation that happened in the courts rather than complicate it by dragging the nodes of misunderstanding. Because at that point, I'm telling you once again, at a time when businesses are practically standing, and entrepreneurs in Ukraine are lying there, talking about that because of the courts that have hundreds and hundreds of thousands of cases, it would be easier to work when state-owned entrepreneurs, legal persons are deprived of their rights or are freed from the payment of government duties. First of all, it doesn't touch legal persons. Why? And so on. So I don't even want to discuss the bill that the government has proposed, but I just want to propose that it be rejected and not voted down. And to the factions that are here, when we talk about Thursday, we put a big fat minus on this bill, 1099, and we support the bill of MPs in the first reading with a view to furthering and launching the law that simplifies the work in the courts. [[government]] And this is our task, the task of the legislature, unfortunately, in writing laws, is to make it easier for those for whom these laws are written. Because very often, when a whole list of bills is voted on, because we vote one day, on this day we discuss them, and we vote until Thursday. [[And today, on Friday, he's sitting here, I've counted 16 national deputies.]] [[More, uh, okay, 26th.]] And this makes it possible to push non-quality production through the sessional hall of the Supreme Council. And actually, here we often have to patch holes. So I want us not to patch holes, but to make a qualitative breakthrough in lawmaking, to adopt this bill. And I hope that in itself we will emphasize once again the quality of the work of the legislative body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u118	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u119	Deputies! There is a real problem. The courts are overcrowded with food, the cases are not resolved, our electorate feels this, and of course it is our duty to ensure that we are operational in court cases, that we create legislative bases for this, and that the executive and the courts ensure that the judicial cases are dealt with expeditiously and that the interests of individuals, legal persons and the interests of the State are protected. If there is a problem, it needs to be solved. In this regard, two bills are proposed: governmental and parliamentary. The government is designed to ensure that the courts are dealt with expeditiously and to protect the interests of the State. The bill is designed to ensure that cases are dealt with expeditiously and to protect the interests of individuals and legal persons. They and others propose to cancel the mandatory fees for the provision of court costs related to the information and technology of the judicial system. I also personally tend to support the MP's bill. What's the point? The point is, in fact, the budget provides for these costs and therefore takes them back to those who refer to the courts is inappropriate and unfair. With regard to the government’s proposal, there is also budgetary funding. I think we should use it in this case. I'm worried about one question. Would it not lead to the adoption of a bill, particularly a government bill, to the deterioration of the technical and information provision of the executive and the judicial system? After all, we have to pay, we have to pay, they're inevitable. And the problem is what the source is. These expenses. My predecessors in this rostrum called this source. I think it's true that it's a source of funding in the budget and yoga needs to be used, or we can make the technical information system worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u120	Vladimir Stretovich, head of the committee. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u121	Thank you. Vladimir Stretovic, head of the Christian People's Union Party, Our Ukraine. I want to rehash with Vladimir Kirilovich and say that just adoption of the bill will make the information and technical provision of the trial worse. At the same time, the introduction of payment for information and technology in the court process has become an important component of the reform of the court's security system. As a result of the establishment of a single computer network of Ukrainian courts, a computerization base for the entire judicial system that has begun today has been established. There is now a proposal by the State Judicial Administration and the Council of Judges of Ukraine to distribute this experience to the entire judicial system. The most important social result of the payment of information and technology services was the elimination of shameful practices when judges were forced to ask for papers, envelopes, offices. In fact, such practices provided a systemic basis for influencing the court through the provision of assistance. In contrast, the payment of information and technology to the court is transparent, clear to all of the government's defined payments. This practice is accepted by society, evidence of the practical nature of the absence of complaints, even at the beginning of its implementation. I want to say that we all announce on all public speeches, in all the newspaper publications, the so-called fight against corruption. But somehow we struggle with the consequences, forgetting the reasons. So the lack of material and technology and the provision of envelopes, office appliances, other means of the courts, will call them to help, and then the courts will become dependent on the customers who have provided this assistance. The introduction of payment of information and technology costs did not increase the burden of payment when referring to the court, but became the main argument in reducing the amount of government duty paid when filing lawsuits. The size of the stick, as a result, is today small and even in terms of the costs of information and technology provision of the trial is between 200 and 1800 bracelets. By comparison, before the introduction of additional court costs, government duties amounted to many thousands and sometimes millions of dollars, and of course, government duties do not cover actual court costs. It's different. After the introduction of fees for information and technical support to the court, costs of the state budget are not foreseen for the provision of information systems, legal databases and so on, and in 2000, costs amounted to some 10 million dollars, including at the expense of these costs, the courts have fully complied with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution for the technical fixing of the trial. I'm going to point out that this payment is then made on the wrong side, and the party that is guilty of violating the farm contract is putting itself in such conditions, and then the state just declares that the guilty party has to pay this payment on behalf of the other party that is coming back. Thus, making the proposed changes to the Code of Procedure would significantly increase the burden on the State budget, and in the absence of sufficient budgetary funding would lead to a halt in cases involving the suspension of the technical fixation of the trial. The general conclusion is that both bills are to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u122	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u123	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region There's also a positive in the bill that the government has put forward, and I wouldn't want to be so dramatic about the situation. Of course, the government, it is moving towards protecting executive power and thus giving more aid, while the bill submitted by the people's deputies of Carmazin is today, and Ratushniak, is more attractive today so that we can accept it in the first reading. I'm there with the negatives that I saw in the bill of government, and I'd like to point out something else. Of course, without speculating today about whether they're listening to us or not, I'd like to put it this way: and whether or not the government needs to deal with everything that's going on today at all. Yes, we defend executive power. Yeah, they don't have enough money, they don't have enough money, they don't have enough in the state. But we completely forget: Is there enough money in people’s lives to get to the courts of truth? Please take a toll today. When dealing with a case where a peasant goes to protect his right to the land he has, he has to pay 800 bracelets after he gets this certificate according to a court decision that he doesn't have, he doesn't have, and no office of the college, sorry, no, he has to pay back 800 bracelets. Who's coming back? Let's look at this side of the problem. Or take a business. There are a lot of people who have been working as directors or as directors of general principles or as officials of honor, who today have given sanctions to sanepidemstation for 17 bracelets for a health book and the state passport costs 5 bracelets? Three leaves, I'm sorry. Enterprises are being destroyed. Enterprises in the Chernobyl region of the Novoseltsky region of "Messo Bukovina" this year for medical examination, for sansations, should pay 200,000 for all others. That's right. In order for a doctor from the station to twist his nose into a worker, he has to pay 18 bracelets! What's going on?Oh, my God! Where is the Ministry of Health? So here I'd like to say to the government, do you see that it's time to look at these problems? Hundreds of thousands are taken by peasants, hundreds of thousands of businesses being robbed and so on. Let's introduce a bill to protect people. The faction will determine which bill. But I'm going to propose to support the Karmazin and Ratushniak bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u124	Question completed. We'll make a decision. What's the closing line, fellow officers? We do not have a concluding word in the Rules. There's no need for that. The question is closed, we will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on responsibility for malfunctioning automated systems is being announced for consideration. Reporter is deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service Vladimir Ilchi Pristajko. Please, Vladimir Illich. Please, very briefly, because the problem here is obvious.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u125	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code proposed for consideration on 14 January of this year was approved by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy. The draft amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code aim to provide the Ukrainian Security Service with legal grounds for conducting judicial investigations into cases provided for in articles 361, 363 of the Criminal Code. Actually, these are crimes referred to in Chapter 16 of the Criminal Code, which means crimes in the field of electronic computing machines, systems and computer networks. The urgent need for this is that computer crime is one of the most dangerous forms of criminal assault. According to experts from law enforcement agencies in Central and Eastern Europe on the fight against computer crime, the proceeds of criminals from crime in the use of electronic computing machines are third in line with profits from illicit drug and arms sales, and the resulting material losses are now estimated at billions of dollars. In the United States alone, the annual economic damage caused by this type of crime is estimated at about $100 billion. In Ukraine, the damage caused by such crimes is lower, but it is now worth tens of millions of dollars. Crimes in the area of the use of electronic computing machines have repeatedly created real prerequisites for extraordinary situations in Ukraine, including life-sustainment and increased danger. Article 17 of the Constitution defines the economic and information security of Ukraine as the most important of its functions, since in the context of the development of a single global information and financial and economic space of invaluable importance, information is acquired that ensures that different decisions are taken in a way that is important. In view of this deliberate illegal interference with automated systems, the level of the State’s ability to effectively implement activities by all participants in information relations is negative. In some cases, such criminal acts pose a threat to Ukraine’s vital interests, harming its information and economic security, which are protected by legislation on the Ukrainian Security Service. In the meantime, international experience also testifies to the need for security services to resist computer crime. In the United States, in addition to the FBI, the National Security Agency and its national computer security center are responsible for these matters. In France, in addition to a separate police brigade, counterintelligence is also involved. In Canada, too. Previous investigation into computer crimes. special services in Russia, such as Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Azerbaijan. The Ukrainian Security Service is involved in the implementation of State policy on the protection of state and information resources in the transmission networks of cryptographic and technical information protection. According to the Ukrainian Information Protection in Automated Systems Act, the Department of Special Telecommunications Systems and Information Protection of the Security Service is responsible for the management of the protection of information in automated systems and for the methodological management and coordination of the activities of public authorities related to the prevention, detection, regulation and management of unauthorized actions on public information resources and information and telecommunications systems. Thus, the involvement of the Ukrainian Security Service in the prevention, detection, detection, detection of crimes provided for in articles 361, 362 and 363 of the Criminal Code, the use of its means and capabilities is a mature and necessary step in the resolution of computer crime in Ukraine. In view of the recommendations made and taken into account by the Legal Policy Committee on the bill in question, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I request the adoption of a draft law amending the Criminal Procedure Code on a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? If so, please sign in. Five minutes. Light up on the board. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u127	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The honourable reporter certainly needs to consider the bill, to support the discussion. This applies to crimes involving the damage that is being done and so forth. Well, as a national MP, I don't count myself a criminal yet. But please tell me what, wherever I go in the office, they're afraid to talk openly to me. Is this not a complete hearing from the Security Service of all and all Ukraine today. You know, well, they don't want us to just find out that Melniczuk's coming in, they don't want to talk or they say, "Silence, quiet, we're going out." [[SoccerCity in California ……]] What's going on in the state, and this, believe me, is not what I'm talking about. It bothers me that I can’t speak freely to anyone and anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u128	Well, frankly, it's not really the subject of this law that we're talking about. But, in principle, I can tell you the only thing that the Ukrainian Security Service is investigating everything in the Criminal Code is more than 400, 33 counts of crime. When it comes to the need for use in criminal investigations of the means you are referring to, there is an appropriate mechanism defined in the law, both in the Ukrainian security service and in the Act on Operational Investigation, particularly in the Constitution, that such measures are granted solely by the court, if necessary, and the Ukrainian Security Service is certainly using it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u129	Eugene Kirilchuk, if you please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u130	Thank you. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Fatherland Party, Kirilchuk. Vladimir Illich, indeed, is in need of such a law, and we will support it. But in previous information, when your supervisor spoke, he stated that, apart from the public services that can listen or listen to by law, there are now many forms in Ukraine that, without permission of authority, are also involved in listening to phones, faxes, and so forth. I think they're going to collect information from computers, too. Do you have a way of fighting them? You know at least a few of them, they need to be cut down, or they're in such a political field that you can't take them down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u131	Thank you for asking. In fact, referring to the investigation teams of the Ukrainian Security Service, the three components of the crime in question will certainly provide an opportunity and expand the ability of the Ukrainian Security Service to engage in operational and search activities in this area, as you speak of.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u132	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Slabenko, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u134	Sergei Slabenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u135	That's the question I have. Today, there is an understanding that the articles on which a criminal case can be dealt with are already within the competence of the relevant authority - the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I'm wondering, is it possible that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is ineffectively working, that it is overburdened by these cases now, by such signs of wrongdoing, that you should now be joined, or is it actually your initiative, because it is people who are addressing you and think that only your service can, as a competent authority, solve this issue in fact?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u136	Thank you for asking. The fact is, in general, these crime scenes are new crime scenes for our criminal justice. They entered the Criminal Code as it is now available from September 1, 2001. And today it is predicted that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is investigating these crimes. The Cabinet of Ministers bill does not raise the issue of removing the investigation units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and transferring them exclusively to the Ukrainian Security Service. So the point is that if they find and break a criminal case, they'll investigate it, but the Ukrainian Security Service will also do that. This will not be removed by the investigators of the Department of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u137	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u138	Dear reporter! First. I wanted you to answer the questions for our radio audience. How many lines does this bill have that we've been discussing for so long? And one more question. In principle, you did not quite answer your previous colleague's request to transfer to the Security Service. Is that how the Ministry of Internal Affairs works or is it bad? It'll be better for the Security Service or not. Since duplication of functions is very common, you need to realize that there is suspicion that there is a duplication of functions, it is either that someone has done worse with these duties or, accordingly, that there is a desire to do better. The first question is a must.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u139	Thank you for asking. The first part. The law looks like this. The Supreme Council shall rule in part 3 of article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code after the figure 334 is added to the figures 361, 362 and 363. [[It's a substantiation.]] I mean, next to the crime scenes that we're investigating to give us the right to investigate. That's the whole law. As far as I'm concerned, I'm sorry, maybe I didn't quite answer the questions. As to whether or not the Ukrainian Security Service is dealing with these issues today, starting with the development, manufacture and distribution of devices used to remove information. As of today, the Ukrainian Security Service, according to the Enterprise Act, has been tasked with licensing this activity and we are engaged in it. In recent years, we have issued 23 licences for manufacturing. But we're able to do it. and its own search-and-research activities will certainly expand the ability of the Ukrainian Security Service. It's not that the Ministry of Internal Affairs works worse, but better, but this whole legislative complex is referred to as the competence of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u140	Thank you. Have a seat, please. George Carmazin from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, it's only three numbers in the Criminal Procedure Code. All of it. These changes are made on behalf of the entire Cabinet of Ministers! Under the signature of the entire Prime Minister of Ukraine! Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm calling your attention again. Since the 1960s, there's been an old, completely patched-up, not responding to many of its articles in the Constitution of Ukraine, the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the whole government has come to propose three articles to us now, to make changes, and we are with you, serious deputies, to cut off time, to spend state money. I'm talking to Yanukovich again. Mr. Yanukovich! Look at your state policy, it should be a state policy for you, a government policy for billing. Call off all the petty bills and concentrate more seriously on preparing for these codes. It's the committee's opinion. Now for the committee's opinion. The committee considered the bill tabled by Kabmin, with permission to say, and believes that it can be recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis, as it is proposed to pass on these crimes. Not to hand over, but also to investigate, the Security Service. Although such warnings were made, I have to report them. Warnings are that crime in the field of electronic computing machines, computers, systems and computer networks is a crime of average gravity. This is provided for in article 12 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and given that the Ukrainian Security Service is a law enforcement body of special purpose, and these crimes are new to the state. As the experience of Western nations shows, this can have a serious impact on the security of the State, and we believe that such changes should be accepted. Since this law does not require further elaboration, it is in line with article 6.5. 6 The Supreme Council regulation is proposed by the Committee as a whole as a law, that is, a first reading, and then as a law, so as not to waste, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our precious time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u142	Thank you. Thank you. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u143	I don't think you need to ask questions here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u144	Sergey Shevchuk, please. Well, the question is, one minute, Sergei Shevchuk wants to ask you a question. What questions, like yours, are similar to those of the national MPs. There you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u145	Yuri Anatoliyovich, Your Honor, I want to ask you wrong that I want to justify Yanukovic's government, and I sometimes criticize him, but I want to remind you that the right of legislative initiative other than the government has to be the people's deputies. And we have two committees in Parliament from the last call, which are responsible for law enforcement and in this call, two of them. And what's the point of why the Criminal Procedure Code isn't worked, actually, by the MPs and the many lawyers and you, in particular, explain yourself, please. I'll be grateful.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u146	I am very grateful to you, Mr. Sergei, for such a question. I just want to say that the Criminal Procedure Code can be mastered not by one national MP, but by entire copyright teams and entire academics and universities that we finance from the State Budget of Ukraine and the entire government that has its own Ministry to determine direction. Throughout the world, 90-95 percent of the bills are being drafted by the governments of the countries that finance them, and only 5 percent are being submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies in order to ensure the complexity, integrity and so on. If you give me a chance to at least one hundred of the scientific forces there are, give them to me, I'll put them to you in a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u147	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u148	This codex right here. All right, no questions. In a week.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u149	Thank you. It's convincing, it's convincing, yes. Have a seat, please. Yes, please, the Puzakov People's Deputy, the Communist faction, the next one is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u150	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Experts in the city of Kyrovgrad suggest some cosmetic changes. Article 361, first paragraph: "illegal interference" replace "unsanctioned intervention". Article 362 is not well understood in the first paragraph. It would appear that it would be clearer to write, "kidnapping, possessing, requiring computer information or seizing it through fraud or abuse by a service person of his or her duty position with the above-mentioned objectives," and not abuse at all being punished. Article 363 - Breaking the rules of operation. I'm not a lawyer, but I think there are rules at every computer center: some are set up by a business order, others by some kind of noticeable, sometimes by illegal documents. And what is it that violates such rules to punish fifty untaxed minimums or even deprive them of their will? This is formally derived from such a vague law. And in fact, in life this will be the case: whoever approaches the court will win the trial, because the court, as an interested party, recognizes certain rules as irrelevant, while others, as a sponsor of the competition party’s interest, recognises the essentials and orders the guilty person to be a minor but formal defendant under this curtain. And the formal basis for this, which will solve the judge’s hands, will be that very law. So, vaguely spelled laws are the way to commit corruption and abuse their official position, including, above all, the judges in the prosecution's office, in the investigation agencies. Everyone admits that today, and unfortunately we continue to adopt laws, which, as a breather, will bring the judge back to where it came from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u151	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, firstly, to point out that in the speech of the predecessor of my illegal or sanctioned, here I fully agree that it should be stressed that illegal interference. Because it may be sanctioned, but it's not legal. That's it. So sanctions can be imposed illegally, so I agree that there should be the word “illegal interference. ” And this proposal is not right. But at the same time, I would like to stress one more thing. What, you know, is very often behind the protection against interference is the desire to intervene. In principle, there is this space. I'm sure everyone knows all the Internet providers, everyone who works on the Internet knows that the mandatory licensing of Internet providers, the one who provides Internet services for the population, should be required to install a server in the Security Service. I mean, what does that mean by simple language? Anything you e - mail can be read by the Security Service. I just want to believe that they're all reading it after they get permission to do it legally. That's why this rule is necessary on our part. So we have to control later by giving permission. Because if the Security Service does so without permission, it will be impossible to control it. So I'm convinced that there are very few laws here that need to be supported immediately in general and clearly, that's exactly what these laws are. In order to make it easier to control these processes later, it would be easier to control those who listen legally after a legal sanction and those who download information. Because talking about it will give us the opportunity to protect us from unauthorized, illegal removal. That's what I want to believe, but it's still a theory, because in practice right now, those who download information often have much better tools to download this information than, for example, the Security Service, those that should warn us against taking this information away. As an example, this is the location of the Russian consulate in Lviv. It is located 5 metres from the military’s western direction, from the border service in the western direction. And it's all clearly there, you don't need any specials. 30 dollars is worth of equipment, including a complete view of how Ukraine’s secret military intelligence computer works. This is read in a foreign embassy. So I'm, by the way, refocusing on this already, which, in principle, is not the result. But the bill needs to be supported in general clearly and unequivocally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on the responsibility of persons for malfunctioning automated systems has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I want to consult with you. We have Alexander Volodymyrna present, who waits courageously for us to consider her bill. Maybe we can talk about it in three minutes? It's clear. Please, Alexandra Volodymyr. Celebration. In honor of the festival, to be exact. Yeah, yeah. If it's your will. It's literally two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u154	Thank you very much. Just a minute. First of all, I want to thank you for making decisions on parliamentary hearings about the development of entrepreneurship and small business. I would like to ask all the deputies questions that you would like to hear the answer to, or who you would like to listen to. As far as the bill is concerned, it's very short. Today we have no comparable statistics with the European Union and Ukraine, and when you read that today, for example, they are comparing Ukraine with Poland or another state on small and medium-sized business development, you see, these are incomparable figures. We don't have micro-enterprise statistics, we don't have a medium-sized enterprise, and the small one doesn't define the same standard as in Europe. It is therefore proposed that the European Union should enter into law entrepreneurship and that there should be a normal system of comparison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u155	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, so far there is no clear definition that we have microenterprises, which are small and which are medium. The bill provides for the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and for the elimination of disagreements between the Ukrainian Business Act and the State Support for Small Enterprises on the definition of the concepts and criteria of the above-mentioned enterprises. A microenterprise is an enterprise with an average annual workforce of not more than 10 people with annual gross income of not more than 100,000 euros. A small enterprise, an enterprise with an average annual workforce of not more than 50 people and an annual gross income of not more than 500 000 euros. And the medium-sized enterprise, a medium-sized enterprise with no more than 250 employees and no more than 2 million euros in annual gross income. These are the parameters for defining these categories. The Economic Policy Committee considered this bill and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u157	Your Honor, do you have any objection to this? None. Then we'll take it. Constantine Mercury Sitnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u158	I have a big request for you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, maybe we heard Minister Shevchuk too, two or three minutes tops.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u159	Let's talk about the Red Book. If there's no objection, we'll get through it quickly. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, what did you have, a note? As long as the minister's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u160	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm just writing about this issue, and I wanted to say that this law, which she has now introduced, reported to Alexander Volodymyrna Kugel, which I sincerely welcome with 8 March, is urgently necessary, we need to find out where the micro-enterprise, where it is small, and where the average is to avoid tax evasion, in order for people today to feel, well, with their lungs open to start working today, the business is raised in general, so that they don't get choked by other questions. So I'm going to suggest that this law be passed in both the first and the second readings at once. Then the question arises, What is a large business? And all that's not supposed to be the medium, small and micro is just a big business.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u161	Thank you for your wise thinking. Thank you. Please, Vasil Yakovitch. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm very short. I would ask you to support this brief but important bill, which envisions changes aimed at strengthening the protection and reproduction of objects that are at risk of extinction, that is, objects of the animal and plant world that are found in the Red Book of Ukraine. Clarifications are insignificant. The area of distribution, including the entire territory of Ukraine, the continental shelf and exclusively the sea economic zone. Protection and distribution are expected to be provided by government authorities, local authorities, legal and natural persons. Objects of the Red Book are becoming subject to the adoption of these changes by subjects of state, municipal, and private property, and the Red Book is being maintained by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Thank you, Mr. Merkuriovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! Is there any comment, no reasoning? Mr. Merkuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u164	Since I am one of the authors of the Red Book, I want to support these changes in law and ask my colleagues to support them as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u165	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ivan Alexandrovich, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u166	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to Ukraine, proposes that the provisions of article 64 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Environment be brought into line with the provisions of the Red Book Act adopted last year. What does the Cabinet of Ministers specifically suggest to change in article 64 of the Environmental Protection Act? First of all, it is proposed to extend Ukraine’s responsibility to protect rare and endangered species of animal and plant life, namely, the responsibility of the State extends to the continental shelf and solely the sea economic zone that corresponds to article 4 of the Red Book Act. Furthermore, in article 64 of the Environmental Protection Act, it is proposed that the Supreme Council withdraw the position that the Red Book of Ukraine is approved by the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Red Book Act, article 15 of the Code of Conduct of the Red Book of Ukraine relies on a specially authorized central executive body for environmental and natural resources. Finally, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes to make more clear the obligations of government authorities, local self - government bodies, legal and physical persons who are subject to animal and plant use. The committee at its meeting carefully considered the bill and suggested that it be accepted as a basis. The implementation of the law does not require additional costs from the State Budget. No comments were received from the Committee on Budget Affairs. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council also supports this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues! No questions? Please don't stop me from working. Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u168	Thank you. Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction. Dear John Alexanderovich! I have some questions for you about your bill. I have such an order in Hersonian and especially in Calancean. And it has enough birds and everything else under your bill, all the flora and fauna that should protect our state. But it did happen that the district council decided on the order, and for various reasons, the power structures may not have intervened without the help of the city of Kiev today and make efforts through the courts to ensure that the order was not. I don't know who's behind this, but the fact that the area admitted, the area confessed and today there's an effort. So that's the bird. That flora and fauna can be, like they say, not very good if we don't stop all of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u169	You know, the position of our committee is that we have to expand the reserve areas. I think if you go to our committee, if you go to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, we're going to raise this issue together to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Have you completed your consideration of the question? The review of the draft Law amending article 64 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act has been completed. [[on the Red Book of Ukraine]] We'll make a decision. Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u171	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, I want us not to turn the legislative process into something so incomprehensible. There is a discussion provided for in the Rules, we are not much in the Hall, let us discuss. I think that the bill that is now being reported by the national MP John the Rabbit, a member of our Ukraine, is absolutely right, because we need to change article 64 of the law. But this Law on the Red Book of Ukraine, which was adopted in 2002, needs to be kept in mind and observed, followed by its executive authority. So what we are adding to the protected areas, including the continental shelf and exclusively the sea economic zone, is that we are the subjects of state, municipal, and private property of the Red Book of Ukraine, I would like to ensure that we have an effective mechanism for implementing this law. You go into any transition now, and you'll see flowers sold in the Red Book. What is the execution mechanism? No execution mechanism available. So I would like us, along with what we're adopting laws, to insist on implementing these laws, and to foresee these mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, we've been out of the Vault for 15 minutes. National MP Mazurenko, please. Turn on the Mazurenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u173	Vladimir Mikhailovich and colleagues, I very much ask to consider another bill, he agrees, there are a few minutes just for his explanation and all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u174	Well, there's a denial. Dear colleagues, the more I look at it, it's written in the committee's decision to reject the Cabinet of Ministers, and it needs to be discussed. So let's do this, if, because this is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of Profiles, we're going to have to discuss this project. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Secretary of State of Hapon, Ministry of Internal Affairs. Please tell us from the microphone what you are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u175	The bill is agreed upon and we agree with the bill submitted by the national MP Mazurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u176	Well, then, let's talk about it. Well, there's a denial. I can't discuss it right now. That's it, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the Vulnerable. Yes, please put it on the sign-up sheet. National MP Puzakov, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u177	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština As it is difficult for communists today to go on television, radio, in the press, I want to use the rostrum of the Supreme Council on the eve of a wonderful spring festival to greet women all over Ukraine. Dear women! On behalf of the Communists of our faction, I warmly welcome you to the celebration of spring, light, and hope. Women are associated with the arrival of spring, family warmth and comfort, the spiritual generosity of our shores, mothers, wives, and sisters. It is difficult to overestimate the role of women in our lives, the impact of their spiritual, intellectual, professional potential on the development of all aspects of our lives. Dear women! We honor you for your long - standing wisdom and patience, your attitude toward goodness and mercy, your ability to understand, support, and forgive, your spirit of inspiration and optimism. May your hearts be filled with love, hope for a happy future, and the good fortune of each family. Happiness, joy, and longevity, and eternal beauty, youth, and health. Always be loved. Sadly, though, today we will have to talk about the bitterness of our lives, for most of our beautiful women have forgotten about this festival. This is what the young mother, the disabled first group, writes. "It has been ten years since I celebrated this holiday, and it has been the most joyful and happy for me. On that day, I was given a bouquet of the first spring flowers. Those who, in the spring, brought rays of warmth and happiness. Today, my son, Andrejko, will not buy flowers and we will not have a holiday in the house because we do not even have money for bread. Because my pension is 86 bracelets -- that's enough for medicine. After caring for me as a disabled person, my family receives as many as 5 rubles of 65 copies. I will read from a letter from a young teacher in the village of Berezov. "I'll never work at school again, I don't have the strength to look at these children who are just sad. Every morning I go to class, and I think, if everyone was alive and well, no matter what. I look at them and think: Will their dreams come true, will they learn in higher education institutions, or will they be able to get a job when their lives are met? And how I wish they were needed by the state." Such letters to hundreds and each of them pour out the pain and groaning of the human heart. I want to address you, our wise, strong women's spirit, a normal life will only be when you trust us Communists, because this is the only force that will be able to shield us Huangs, thieves, corrupt clans and give people a normal life. With a celebration of you, ladies of honor and love. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin. Please. There's no gurus, I see. There's no drug addict. Well, then, get ready for Hazel.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Honorable national MPs, a respected people of Ukraine, never thought that at the twelfth year of independence of the state. We have in our country, contrary to the Constitution that was adopted in this room, a censor, a direct censorship with respect to MPs. I remind you that in the second part of article 15, it says, "No ideology can be recognized by the state as compulsory, and no censorship is allowed in the second." Thus today, the registration of the draft Law prepared by the People's Deputy of Carmazin on the granting of an agreement on the deployment of a unit, a military battalion, which I proposed in the draft law to lead Commander-in-Chief Leonid Danilovich Kuchmi in view of the importance and responsibility of the political moment. At first, the staff of the secretariat were banned, and then the Chief of the Supreme Council wrote, "Don't register." I think this is a disgraceful date in the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, at least there has been no such thing in the history of our country if some bill to a national MP has been banned from registering. I believe that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin should apologize to the entire Ukrainian people for his shameful actions. And in order not to happen what might happen now, but it may happen that when the 9th of March citizens come together peacefully for a demonstration, as article 39th of the Constitution permits: "The right of citizens to meet peacefully, without arms and to hold rallyings, demonstrations." The government adopted a decree approving the temporary arrangement for the organization of peaceful mass action and action. This regulation provides for local and regional departments, parties no less than 10 working days before the date. There are many other warnings that completely violate the Ukrainian Constitution. I went to the Human Rights Committee to Mr. Widowenko and received a qualified response that this situation violates human rights. I am addressing Prime Minister Janukovich: do not make a collision with the people, take sides with the Constitution and cancel the decision. I turn to Mr. Lavrinovich: Mr. Lavrinovich, you have signed a conclusion and an explanatory note to this position. Please note that you are in charge of the Ministry of Justice. I used it on you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, half my time from the Vizna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u180	Unplug the microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to repeat as a national MP. Because our attention was drawn to the fact that we should not consider petty matters but should really deal with the problems that the Supreme Council should be dealing with. That's how I inform the National Deputies that the powers of the Supreme Council include the approval of decisions to provide military assistance to other states to send troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to another state or to allow troops of other States to enter Ukraine. But it is only for the President to make an appropriate submission and I have done what is right and lawful. I'm asking an honorary colleague to study the Constitution, and everything will be fine. Please, I'm inviting Leschenko. I'm right here. Your name didn't ring a bell. Please. I wasn't talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u181	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In Ukraine, genocide on the part of the executive branch continues with regard to its own people. A few hundred thousand people die each year from hunger, cold, and disease. Death is twice the birth rate. On this background, it is not surprising to me that there is a crime of authority toward newborn babies. The state cannot solve the basic issue of providing full medical facilities with vaccines for compulsory vaccination. For example, during six months there were no AK, DP, and parathytic vaccines in the region of Chernigiv. Recently, 20 percent were allocated to the need, and there is a monthly price. Even for money, parents are unable to do so. This is a threat to the health and life of children. In this regard, I appeal to the Minister of Health, Kidava, for information on measures to ensure that the issue is resolved. For the rest of the Rules that I have saved, please refer Nosenko to the People's Deputy of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u182	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u183	National MP Nosenko, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! During the mid-term in Ukrainian society, the issue of privatization of Ukrainian enterprises is already being discussed with concern. Ukraine's National Privatization Program Project in the section that proposes to remove selected structural railway units from the list of property rights. It was not a joke to alert and disturb all the railways in Ukraine. After all, these lists have included enterprises that are part of the final chain of technology for the production of rail transport. This is, figuratively speaking, the privatization of apples in the garden. The situation is also shocked by the representatives of the governing bodies of the Ukrainian railway and transport industry, which, during almost the entire period of independence, took place in the fairway of today’s economic policy of the state. As a result, a statement came out for this union that I want to sound. Statement by the railway and transport industry of Ukraine on the intentions of the public authorities to privatize rail transport. The Ukrainian National Privatisation Programme Project, which is scheduled to approve the State Privatisation Programme for 2003-2008, proposes to remove part of the structural units of railways from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization. Thus, passenger and freight wagons, locomotives, wagons, and locomotive depots, repair and diagnostic equipment, dispatch systems, retreaded trains, train stations, and so on, together with the colossal energy management of the signalling and telecommunications system, a complete property complex. Thus, the privatization of individual railway infrastructures will disrupt the only technological process, make it impossible for a centralized system of traffic management and security that will have disastrous consequences and cause chaos on railways. Today, rail transport is Ukraine’s main transport highway, providing about 80 percent of passenger and freight transport. The branch is stable and cost-effective; it is a reliable, reliable source of taxes for filling.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u184	Olga Hinzburg passed on her time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u185	Thank you, Olga Petrovna to you. It's an emergency. We need to look at it. Gauze does not receive funding from the State Budget for the development of rail transport or even finance the execution of many government programs. In this regard, some government officials are surprised by the short - term policies that threaten international financial structures not only with the purpose of resolving temporary budgetary problems but also with the future of the State, its independence. The Board of Railways and Transporters of Ukraine, on behalf of a half million railway community, strongly protests the State’s intention to destroy the railway sector and declares its intention to protect the interests of railways with all available means, without excluding the general sector’s strike. Responsibility for destabilizing the socio-economic situation in the field and in Ukraine as a whole, the economic consequences of mass protests will remain on the conscience of those who intend to adopt the above-mentioned law. We ask the central authorities of Ukraine to leave the railways as complete property complexes in the list of property rights, to prevent the destruction of a strategically important state in the field. Taking all these circumstances into account, I call upon my fellow railwaymen, as I was also the chief of the railway station, to join in the protest of the opposition forces."that continues from March 9th in all the big and small cities of Ukraine. Otherwise,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u186	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u187	Otherwise, it's what. What's going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u188	Please, Yuri Solomatin. The Communist faction. Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u189	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues! I'm a Russian by origin, and I want to congratulate all of our fellow countrymen, my countrymen, on this Chevchenkov day, which will be the whole of Ukraine celebrating on March 9th. This is the day on Sunday, March 9, this year, at 11 o'clock this morning, at the Arsenal subway station, there's also a portion of Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk's supporters who have a communist opinion. We will come together to the square of Europe, we will join the columns of the Socialist Party of Ukraine ba Block of Yulia Timoshenko, and we will leave at 12 o’clock for the monument of the great son of the Ukrainian people Taras Shevchenk. That's where, when we honor the memory of the great son of the Ukrainian people, we will say no to the criminal-oligaric regime of Kuchma and confirm our determination within the action "Rise, Ukraine!" Fight until this shameful regime under the pressure of its own people voluntarily resigns. Ours will take it. Our cause is just, we will win! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u190	Mikola Kravchenko. Get ready for the hamster. The Communist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u191	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am addressing you on a very serious matter related to my request, not to mine, but to the request of the Parliament to the President for a further increase in tariffs for the transport of goods to UCrzalznice. I draw your attention to the fact that in my request, I made it clear that the Ministry of Transport, by raising tariffs for rail transport, violated 2 laws: on natural monopolies. Returns the President's law and decree on measures to implement state policy in the field of natural monopolies. A number of deputies, including me, have gone through all hellfire, but have not been able to influence and stop these tariffs from rising since 10 January. I addressed the President, the members of the Supreme Council supported it by 250 votes, and sent it to the President. Next comes the distinguished colleagues, the following. Vladimir Mihajlovich also replied to you, Head of Administration, and then gave me an answer to the first deputy of the head, to return, the first Deputy Secretary of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, and to the circle closed. I must answer that Parliament, recognizing the need to intervene with the President and to adopt the President's economically balanced decision. Therefore, Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am not satisfied with the answer. I ask you to give me a record order to respond to what kind of visa he has imposed on the parliamentary address, on a parliamentary request to the President, what visa has he given, what commission and who has been given on this issue? I see the development of this situation as follows. The President must give the team, set up a working group, prepare an all-Ukrainian meeting on this most sinister issue, and there we will tell Mr. Kirpe, the Minister, not to teach us all from the television screen how to manage the economy of Ukraine, but to tell how his subsector is flourishing through the destruction of other industries. And he's telling us how to teach. Therefore, respectable Vladimir Mihajlovich, I ask you to give a protocol order on all these matters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u192	I immediately ask the secretariat to prepare the appropriate letters, return the answers, for the person to whom they have addressed has to answer the request, and ask for clarification specifically on the questions raised in the parliamentary inquiry. Please prepare this immediately. Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, prepare Ostrash.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u193	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I wanted to break two small questions. First. In his televised address, the President accused the Supreme Council and, in particular, the opposition of blocking the work of constitutional reform. I would like to say that, I don't know what the opposition is, but our faction's representatives weren't invited to work on the Presidential Commission. And to my question to the members of the other factions of the Presidential factions: how many meetings were held and the questions were being considered, they answered that there was no meeting of the Presidential Commission, so I think it is very unfair for the Head of State to accuse Parliament. Just as it is said that the work of a commission created by the Supreme Council has failed to produce the agreed results. Frankly, our commission is working very unopportunistically, as I think, and it needs to be intensified, but not because someone is blocking it, but we are insisting on speeding it up. I wanted to say this for justice's sake, because, as far as I'm concerned, no one is allowed to lie. The other one. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is such a question. So the President, by his decree, confirmed the state's customs office. It is written that representatives of the Presidential Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, and Ukraine’s State Department may participate in the work of the college. Discrimination with regard to the National Deputies and the Supreme Council immediately. But that, by the way. It's important. On October 18, the Cabinet of Ministers issued a college decree. The second paragraph of this decree is: "Approve the members of the College of State Customs with the right of advisory vote of Dobkin Mikhail Markovich, Bad Igor Ivanovich, Saint Dmitry Vladimirovich, by consent. Who signed it, I don't know. On January 29th of this year, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic signed the order to approve the participation of a member of the College of the Dermymitt Service with the right to advise Landik Valentin Ivanovich. Isn't that too much? Four people's deputies in the customs office. Why are they there, if you'll excuse me, so actively intruding? I would ask, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to form this through a parliamentary request. Or negotiate, please tell me, we need to put it in order. You don't have to compromise the Supreme Council. And if someone is already in a position to work there, it may be possible to do some customs work instead of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u194	I also ask the Secretariat to prepare an appropriate address. Igor Ostash, faction of our Ukraine. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u195	Honorable colleagues, respected Ukrainians, MPs of various parliamentary factions and deputies of various political parties are very authoritative, professional, and deserving Ukrainians have signed an appeal to the public. In particular, it says, "We, the deputies of various parliamentary factions, are seriously concerned about the situation surrounding the Lviv National University of John Frank. We have recently witnessed the emergence of the first issue of the anonymous publication "Government of Man", which was distributed by the "bearer" of the public committee, but without any name under several publications directed against the university and its director, Professor John Vakarczuk. We find it unacceptable to transfer dirty political technologies like black pyar to such an important sector as education that cherishes our future citizens of Ukraine. The Lviv National University of Ukraine, John Frank, is not only the pride of Ukraine but also the authoritative scientific center of Europe. We know John Vakarczuk as a well-known scientist, winner of the Ukrainian State Science and Technology Award, author of many original monographs and textbooks. Obviously, so is he. That's because in March of this year, the term of being a rector is over. In such a case, the Ministry of Education and Science will announce a vacancy contest. This procedure is provided for by the Ukrainian Law, which is regulated accordingly by the statute of the university, which adopted the Labour Collective Conference and approved the Ministry of Education of Ukraine last year. And perhaps some do not like the fact that the conference has legitimized the mandatory nine - year term of university internship, thus protecting the university from people who are random or forced from above. This is a completely motivated norm that stimulates university personnel to self-improvement and service growth. We are all keenly interested in supporting and developing the reforms launched at the university by the creation of new faculties and colleges, cathedrals and centers, the emergence of powerful intellectual printed products, the holding of numerous international seminars and conferences. We support the community of Lviv National University and its Rector, John Vakarczuk, who has actually become one of the best universities in Ukraine and enjoys well-deserved authority in the European university environment. The second thing I would like to say is today a parliamentary inquiry into the circumstances leading up to the bankruptcy of the Kodiritz sugar plant. We know that this is a famous factory, which is even practically known not only in Ukraine, but also outside of it, and which has given known sugar products and is, in fact, a city-creating enterprise. But unfortunately, as a result of the creation of a new owner after the privatization of the Dupnoccroagro ZAT, practically, today the factory is brought to the pen, of the 1,100 people who worked today only works 78. And I would really like the Cabinet of Ministers to look closely at the problems of the Codir sugar plant. And lastly, I would like to welcome our women, our sisters, our wives, our relatives and our spring celebrations, and I would also like to urge all those who respect and support the Victorian bloc of "Our Ukraine" on March 9th to go together at 11 o'clock to the monument to the great Cobzar with a view to bowing down to the memory of the victims of the famine and, indeed, showing that we are Ukrainians and that we love our Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u196	The apostle Paul, a national MP, is invited to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u197	Pavlovsky, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, Hmelnicky. I call on our provosts as the head of the Kyiv Party of Fatherland, I call upon all the Chinese to support our bloc, the Party of Fathers, I, as a professor, address the students and their parents, come all together on March 9th at 11 o'clock to join the entire opposition, because this time the Communists, the Socialists, our Ukraine, the bloc of Yulia Timoshenko, that is, the entire opposition is really taking place for the progressive development of Ukraine. We're going to tell you the essence of this President's address, we're going to show you how the President wants to strengthen the dictatorship and continue to oppress our people, to continue the course he wrote in the letter that 10 years didn't go there and not go there again. We're going to show you where to go, how to stand up for Ukraine, how to really create a future for our young people, for students. So our task in order for all of us together, we must show that we are a nation, we are powerful, we can defeat these clans and criminal oligarchs. You will be witnesses as representatives, worse representatives of Ukraine will stand up for the interests of power, will urge you not to go out, even some will be afraid. But I want you to know, because they don't say that the Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court, has declared all the judges' decisions on September 16 invalid, illegal, that is, the court cannot prohibit your desire to live better. The court can't forbid you from meeting with the National Deputies. And if they say it all, it's a lie. You should know that. And that's why I'm inviting you out. Because together, we can only stand our future together. I emphasize once again, all supporters of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, we are going to the Sofia Square at 11 o'clock to then descend on Khreshtick and together with four opposition forces to pay respect to Shewchenk and fulfill his will “Get up, break the bonds” and together we will fight for Ukraine. We have the Motherland alone, to share nothing. So the prospect is that once we get rid of this regime, if we thank Leonid Danilovich, and he will accept the will of the people, and he will resign in time, it's our salvation, not his reforms, because we need to know that already in Donetsk, Luhansk, in many cities. ate all the cats and dogs that we were going to buy grain, just like we did before the famine in 1933. We must not allow famine, we must save Ukraine. So get Ukraine - the only chance to save Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u198	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, get Tomenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u199	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. On behalf of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I call on all Ukrainians on March 9, the Day of Our Great Prophet Taras Shevchenk, to come out on the square of our cities and villages and raise my voice against the current criminal regime: the regime of marauders, the regime that strangles Ukraine and wants to strangle to the end. I also went to this rostrum to inform you that yesterday the President of Ukraine signed a decree approving the decision of the National Security and Defence Council to send our battalion to the area of possible hostilities near Iraq. In this connection, a group of Ukrainian national deputies, after consulting their political forces for consultations with many voters, introduced a bill that was called upon, a draft decree of the Supreme Council, which was called upon to support the President’s decree. In particular, the project plans to send a peacekeeping battalion of Ukraine under the command of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Captain Kuchma Leonid Danilovich. Stormy applause. Commander of the Battalion to appoint Tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich. The commanders of the mouth to appoint Medvedchuk Viktor Vladimirovich, Smyrnova Jurija Alexandrovich, Piscona Svetoslav Mihajlovich, a criminal company in the area of the Ukrainian battalion, are led by Kravchenko Yuri Fedorovich, the battalion's spokesman is recommended to appoint a general of the army, Marchuk Evgen Kirilović, chief of generals Škidchenk Vladimir Petrovic and Dagajev Yuri Alexanderovich, head of the special department of General Derkach Leonid Vasilovich. It is recommended that the battalion include the entire management unit of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the National Security and Defence Council, the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. To cover up the battalion in the Persian Gulf, to assign Krawchuk Leonid Makarovich to draw up the Blasco fleet, an air defence during the movement of Blasco to provide Kuzmuk's army general Alexander Ivanovich. The implementation of the war trophies will be based on Azarov Mikola Janović. We have come from the fact that this project comes from a sense of responsibility for the fate of Ukraine and for the protection of its national interests, for strengthening our partnership with the United States. We believe that the battalion under the command of Captain Kuchma will be sure to show examples of high professionalism, martial arts, and personal high moral qualities, honoring the Ukrainian State and Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u200	Tomenko. Get ready for Belarus. Now, if you'll excuse me for a moment. No last name, then, please. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u201	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to another serious problem that is being actively debated today before March 8th, this problem is related to what has become fashionable for government officials to draw attention to women's problems on March 8th, and I do not deny this favor of power to women, but I would like to draw attention to them daily. And what I'd like to say is that, again, we have an outside commercial in Ukraine with the greetings of President Leonid Kuchma. You know, I asked the MP for the New Year's greetings of Leonid Kuchma. I got information that this greeting cost 1 million 444 thousand dollars, and today I think we're going to find out how much it costs to congratulate our women. And I would like these millions of dollars spent on these greetings to be spent on social pay, pay and raise pensions, wages and delays for our fellow students, teachers and so on. And those people who think they're going to increase Leonid Kuchma's rating using light commercials, obviously they'd have to think about something that, aside from such greetings, obviously has to solve socio-economic problems. The second thing is extremely important, because next week all the television companies will talk about how the Supreme Council does not solve the problems of political reform, and as the President decides it, I would like to say a few things, because the next week no one will listen, only the representatives of the President will speak on the channels. First of all, I wanted to say that the people who wrote the bill to the President had declared the political war on Parliament. If this is really the design of a political war, then it must be said openly. When the president cut off TV shows on all channels and started talking to the people, everyone really thought that we had declared war or we had declared war on someone. If this is about what the President wants to do in his post by 2006, we don't have to interrupt the show. We just have to say that there is a desire to stay until 2006, and we don't have to scare people just by this constitutional reform. But the document, as you know, is written in such a form, where it is clear from the President's statement that I am writing such a bill that the Supreme Council has not accepted it, so the Supreme Council will not accept it and will prepare for the referendum. Once again, I would like to say that all people, especially the leaders of the state, will understand what a referendum is and what is responsible for the referendum in this country. And if, for example, the idea is to bring us a bill that we shouldn't adopt and then announce a referendum, I'm personally ready for it. Only one thing, in this referendum, is one more question to be asked, do you want President Leonid Kuchma to be until 2006 and the second, or would you like to have a presidential election, say, in the fall of 2003. This is a referendum we accept. And if the language is not in the language of war, then there is a formula for constitutional change, and we in the Supreme Council are going to discuss all the changes to the Constitution that the President proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u202	Belarus Oleg Grigorovich, get ready for Odynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u203	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Allow me, on behalf of the men of the people's deputies, to congratulate all the women of Ukraine, mothers and especially the women teachers who are working today for Ukraine's future under too difficult conditions. In Ukraine the economic crisis, in Ukraine the social crisis. Today, some of Ukraine’s political circles are also causing it a political crisis, a chaos that could lead to the total destruction of our nation. You can't let that happen. We need to set an example for the better governments of Europe. Today in our neighbouring country, the average wage of $570 is in Poland, that's 2002. In 2003, the average wage would be $650. What about us? Less than $50. There's a population growing at an unprecedented rate, and we're going down. There, the national enterprise is growing at an unprecedented rate, even in China, and it's suppressed. Let's take the social sphere. I received a collective letter from teachers at the Redwood High School in the Fastew region that the school was being shut down, the students were being expelled, transferred to the neighboring village by 12 kilometers, and the school was being leased for 50 years to a worldwide charismatic structure, a mission that was supposed to play its part in Ukraine. Where has this been seen? Who allowed you to violate the Constitution, the Education Act? I think that this is my statement to be taken as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister, to the Minister of Education, to put order in the hands of those who want to warm their hands on the commercialization of the material and technical education base of Ukraine, the only hope for future development. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to raise again and again the question of our working conditions in the Supreme Council. Deputies two, three sit in the room. The House of Officers is deserted by the Ministry of Defense, and it needs to be taken away and improved by the Supreme Council. Today, the fate of the house of the former Central Council of Ukraine has again become a matter of concern. This house wants to renegotiate and pass it on to no one. The time has come for the Supreme Council to get this house back to work. Consider this my MP's request. And finally. I'm again asking questions about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u204	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u205	We had not one day of voting, but at least two days of voting in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u206	National Deputy Odaynik, prepare the Clouds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u207	Mikola Odanik "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Winnitzkina. Honourable deputies, distinguished people of Ukraine, good day to you, good health to all. You know, I often ask myself the same question: why us. Having such serious, such great and powerful land potential, human potential, and are we not at the top of a world partnership on a standard of living, but are we below third countries? And the more I think about this question, the more I see it as a lie. Guilt is basically a lie. You know, maybe someone doesn't understand why he's lying. The Soviet Union destroyed the lie. The same lie is happening today to our daughter - in - law, Ukraine. Let's not be loud, let's think about it together. In recent times there have been a great deal of advice on agricultural reform. All at different levels we hear that our lives have improved, we have very good indicators in agriculture, but the question arises: Why are thousands of families starving today? Why don't our kids go to school today? If we have such fine indicators, it even causes a bit of a smile. Why? Because the rate was 1.7 times higher, and where is the milk? Of course, milk is said to have been eaten by pigs. The meat was eaten by mechanics who repaired the technique. And the technique was not repaired. As a result, we did not collect much of the sugar beet. So I'm from this rostrum today, maybe I'm a little bit excited, from this rostrum, I want to go to the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, let's go check out all the numbers you're operating on, and we'll tell our people the truth for once. We have beautiful people, they'll understand. They will even understand the need to suffer, but they will no longer be able to endure anywhere. Already today, I repeat, already in my district today, thousands of families are already starving, not because they don't want to work, but because they are numbered working on those farms that are giving milk today, and which, if we go from Kiev to Mogilov-Podilsk, we will see exactly 324 broken farms where there are cows in some farms, and practically there are no cows. So thank you, I'm sorry, I took a moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u208	Stepan Ilkovich Cloud, please. And we're risking it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u209	Dear voters, honourable deputies! I cannot help but cover such an important event as President Leonid Kuchma's address to the so-called political reform in Ukraine. I would be very happy if our President suddenly had a vision, and he would have wanted to do something useful for Ukraine, and here he could be supported, of course, by all means. But our President is evil, because if he really wanted a political reform to take place in Ukraine, he would start doing the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine conscientiously, he would put order in his office, he would put it in the legal field, and Billionaire Medvedchuk would not be the head of the President's administration, because the President knows very well that these millions and millions are not made, but are plundered by the Ukrainian people. He would force his officials to abide by the Constitution, not to take an illegal position and to receive the mandate of a national deputy, as is the case today with Mr. Szecban and Mr. Melniczuk. He would finally fight corruption, organized crime, and stop the looting of Ukraine. Political reform, therefore, has taken a toll. She's needed. But it can only be successful if a suitable ground for such reform is created. And the main thing in this direction is the removal of the Kuchma and the environment from power. Then all reforms will go to Ukraine. So I would like to conclude by welcoming with the coming great festival of our prophet Taras Shevchenk of Ukraine on March 9, and by remembering what he called and went out to express his civic responsibility. The "Fatherland" party is being held at Sofia on March 9, 11 o'clock, and then we will take the route to Majdan Independence and then to Shevchenk's monument. I call on all Ukrainian citizens to remember what the great Kobzar Shevchenko has called us to. Only then will Ukraine be free, prosperous, independent and truly Ukrainian. And I have no doubt that if there is a real Ukrainian state in Ukraine, the 9th of March celebration will be a national holiday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u210	Thank you. We're out of mode. Wait. There's a line called the name. People's deputy Shufrich, a minute ago. There was a replica called Kravchuk. Please. If you're going to let Skinny go, then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u211	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, the name of the leader of the faction of the united Social Democrats, Leonid Makarovich Krawczuk, was mentioned in the Iraqi ruling. Let us be very responsible for the tragedy that may occur in the Persian Gulf. Nor is it possible for a decision that is very serious to carry information in itself, to be used as a farce, and to involve the state’s superiors. We must respect the state that we represent as Ukrainian national deputies. Farce, we have no right to allow it, but it's a tragedy. And taking this opportunity, I welcome all of our women to the upcoming March 8th festival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u212	We're running out of regulations. One minute Weakness from the message area, for inclusion in the order of the day query.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u213	I would like to point out that I have been asking this question since the morning. I think there's going to be a situation that maybe someone won't be able to make a statement. We've stalled the subject in about 25 minutes. So I ask you to continue for these 25 minutes, for 15 minutes to continue and allow people to speak. Why did I want to pay attention? Believe me, for the first time in my life, I have to protect Mr. Lithuania and Mr. Vasiliev today. I am glad that for the first time in my life this situation has arisen. When they gave an appropriate mandate to the Prime Minister to deal with the specific situation of the financing of the tenth mine, the issue was referred to the Minister of Fuel and Energy, who reported today, the issue remained as it began. So there was a disagreement between the two ministries, the Ministry of Economics and, let's say, the position of Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Azarov in financing the construction of the tenth mine, and this issue remains unresolved. So I'm asking you to come back to my request, that's to the speech that I announced from platform 13.02. In 2003, we gave a concrete answer and agreed on the question as requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-07-m0.u214	Write a document to the secretariat, and it will be officially added to the documents of the Supreme Council. And at the end of our session, allow me, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to thank all those present who have today taken part in the greetings of our women, all women of Ukraine to wish human happiness, health to you and your family, peace and harmony, respectable, in their own family, in the family, in the country as a whole. Enough in every house! With the world, on March 8, dear women, mothers, sisters, daughters. Be Happy! On March 9, I ask everyone to commemorate and honor the memory of the Great Cobzar. The next meeting is going to be 11 numbers - Government Day. This meeting is adjourned.
