ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:57]] Registered -437 There are 437 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with the Rules today, are the day for the Supreme Council to take decisions. You have a meeting schedule for Thursday. One moment, dear fellows. From the procedure, five minutes, write it down, or we'll have it endlessly. Five minutes, report, procedure. On board, please, the names of the national MPs. Omelyan Pussy, Communist faction. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Do you have any procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u2	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! After all, yesterday we were looking at a very important question about the APC. Is it inappropriate to start with this question today and then to move on to political issues? So we insist that we start with the APC issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I'd like your agreement right away that we're going to follow the schedule of meetings, we're going to get to the APC, or we're going to break all our work today. Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We fully support the proposal, which has already been announced, to start a meeting on the most topical issue of interest to all of our citizens -- stability in the agricultural and industrial complex and food security issues of Ukraine. Without considering this question, this was discussed yesterday by the national MPs in their speeches, and we will not consider or let all other issues be considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Take it easy, Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u6	I'm taking down the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u7	Take it off. Ivan Stojko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u8	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, please pass the word to Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u9	I can't hear you. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u10	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, there are several questions of interest that stand in the order of the day. On more than one occasion, factions and individual national MPs have raised the question that the Constitutional Court’s decision, which requires the MP to vote solely in person, is not being implemented. Vladimir Mikhailovich, on behalf of our Ukraine faction, I insist that before you ask any question, to vote, all the cards have been checked, all the cards have been drawn, all the cards of the missing Ukrainian national deputies, which, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court, have no right to vote today because they are not. To prevent their colleagues from violating the Constitution. The faction insists that the cards of the missing Ukrainian national deputies be removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u11	Yes, Phydenka. Stanislaw Phydenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u13	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u14	We have spoken on this subject on more than one occasion, and today I also want to raise the issue of the more serious attitude of the Secretariat and the leadership of the Supreme Council to the organization of the sessions especially on Thursday. We were given an extremely large number of documents that we should consider and make serious decisions today. But unfortunately, and today, we are also taking such an extraordinary question, which will probably take a long time, like constitutional changes, to change the Constitution. And there's going to be a whole bunch of questions that we just can't look at. What's with the disorientation?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u15	Yes, please, Lucenka. Yuri Lucenko. Rudzkowski's giving the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u16	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There are a number of bills that were included on the Conciliation Council, they were in the computer system yesterday, in the base, and today they are not in the vote. Well, you can't have a day's work like chess on a board. I'm talking about the cashier's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u17	Bill number.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u18	And a tax on added value. Draft law 2006 and 2306. One is included, the other is not. I'm asking you to ask the Secretariat to take care of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u19	Yes, please, Seminoga, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u20	I'm asking you to pass the word to Victor Taren.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u21	Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u22	Thank you. Victor Terrence, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yesterday we had Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. And it was stated that together we are producing that block of laws, working together to get out of this crisis situation that happened today in the grain market, in the bread market. And so as long as we don't solve this issue, all the other questions -- there's a two-room parliament, three-bedroom parliament, and so on -- don't matter to people. Our faction strongly insists that we first look at the block of laws, the regulations that apply to what happened today in the grain market, or we will not participate in the work of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u23	Yeah, time's up. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Regarding the proposals made by the National Deputies: Terena, Turkinova, and Šibka are working on draft legislation related to the agribusiness complex. These bills are now scheduled for the session. That's why there's such an offer to work on a schedule of sessions so that we can do it, because otherwise we're going to make it difficult for us to work today if we're going to choose one or the other bills. Let's move on. Regarding the comments of the People’s Deputy, Phydenka, on the organization of meetings. I would like to say, honourable colleagues, honourable national deputies, that the Secretariat and leadership were working until morning to reach out for what the committees had not done. So I would ask that more attention be paid to the work of committees than to the work of the Secretariat. The secretariat didn't sleep today. Regarding the proposal of the People’s Deputy Rudzkowski. I'm asking the secretariat to look into and give me information about the 2006 Bills, 2306. Regarding the proposal of the national deputy Zvaric. I ask the Secretariat to provide information on the missing National MPs. Like, who's in the hospital, who's in treatment, who's on trips or vacations. I'll announce them. A draft ruling is being announced for consideration. - the procedure is completed - the draft decree on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't have to, we don't have to, we're coming today, we're coming. How am I going to break all this? I ask you once again: let's look at democratically everything. You find me these bills, you look at them. Dear National Deputies! Sit down, I'll put you to the vote. I'm asking the faction leaders to order the factions. You agreed to agree on a schedule for this meeting. Why are you breaking up the session today?Oh, my God! I'll do it! Sit down! You're going to vote! All right, let's give it up, then we'll vote. What did they vote first? You are an experienced person. Don’t play the role that is being played. Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote now, first of all, to consider. We have two draft decisions on the agro-industrial complex, the issues that we discussed yesterday. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies, please identify yourself. [[10:12:03]] For 284 The factions. I'm asking you to give me two draft rulings, please, from the agrarian sector. Catherine Timofievna are these decrees? Give it to me, please. Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u24	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. I want you to answer to what chapter of the agenda is the question of the draft Act amending the Constitution? Is this the first reading, or is this the second reading, or is this the consideration? What chapter does it go to? It's just a way of writing it down, that's not the case. The order of the day is a document, you include it in a section. These bills were not discussed at all, nor were they discussed. Why, then, are they in order of the day?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u25	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. I would like to remind the honourable national deputy to my colleague Assadchev, whom I sincerely respect for the principle of a position that there is no first reading, no second reading, no third reading. We don't have a section to which we're headed, we've isolated it separately. It's all there. Calm down, the procedure's over. It's being announced, well, please, we've taken five minutes for the procedure. You don't have to. I say again, the draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the situation in the Ukrainian agro-industrial complex and the threat of food security in the country in connection with the sharp rise in food prices. Is there a Tomich Ivan Fedorovich? Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! After hearing the government’s information on the situation in the agri-industrial complex, two decrees have been made according to the Supreme Council’s consideration of the situation, numbers 3685, 3685-1. However, the committee did not consider the rulings, although the Committee had previously discussed the issue, and the Committee generally supported the introduction of budget changes. In particular, this applies primarily to the allocation of 500 million dollars to deal with natural disasters in agriculture. The adoption of the Act on Taxes on Food Grain Imports in Ukraine, as well as the consideration of the following bills: Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Taxes) concerning the operation of a special order for payment of taxes on added agricultural products), registration number 32, on the draft Act on the introduction into certain legal acts of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of special economic zones in the area of priority development, registration number 3375. And we also propose that the Ukrainian Cabinet find ways to buy from the State Material Reserve exclusively for agricultural crop producers in 2003 at least 1 million tons for direct purchases of timber from producers. To anticipate additional expenditure in Ukraine's 2004 government budget to support agricultural development and to regulate agricultural markets in the following areas of costing insurance payments for mandatory agricultural insurance of 450 million dollars, to finance support to the agri-industrial complex through a 400 million-dollar loan-pending mechanism, to pay direct subsidies to support the animal sector, amounting to one and a half billion dollars, to finance default interventions, to finance agricultural operations, to one billion-billion-dollar direct subsidies. To be drafted by September 1, 2003, a bill will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to save one percent of the congregation for the sale of currency, jewelry, cars and mobile phones in order to compensate the losses of the Ukrainian Pension Fund in connection with the continuation of the Agricultural Tax Act. Develop by September 1, 2003, and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the write-off and restructuring of agricultural commodities of existing tax debts, pennies and fines. By January 1, 2003, look at the 2003-2004 National Programme on Ukrainian Grains, taking into account the current situation in the grain market and the need to take additional measures to stabilize. Also propose to the National Bank to develop and implement a simplified system of lending to agricultural producers in 2003-2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u27	What kind of questions? Wait. Dear colleagues, we have two draft decrees. That was the information, wait, let me say the same thing. There are two draft decrees. The chairman of the committee has now completed a draft ruling. There's another draft decision. Wait, let me tell you what kind of people you are. There's another draft decision that Winski, Melniczuk, Frost and Singeruk made. I'll ask the drafters to explain their draft ruling. Please, which one of you, Alexander Alexandrovich? Here's the question, my dear fellows, you can give us a chance, why do you want to go beyond the next word? Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich, who will inform you about this project? Wait, come on, the report goes, do they have a report or not? Should they finish the report or not? I'll tell you in English, there's a report coming in, let them finish the report, and then we'll talk out of the procedure. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Taking into account yesterday’s discussion of the state’s threat to food security, four representatives of the Socialist Party of Ukraine made a draft decision that I would like to introduce to you. [[Winski, Melniczuk, Frost and Singer]] It's given to you. We have come from the following: the situation in Ukraine's agri-industrial complex is the result of failed rural reforms that have led to the collapse of this leading sector of the economy. The executive authorities foreclosed on the 2002 report on the gross grain harvest, allowing grain traders to collect it at no cost. In 2002, farmers lost about 7 billion dollars at a price difference, undermining the financial base of the entire agricultural complex. As a result of the breakdown of the financial base of the APC, first of all, of these 7 billion dollars, which no one has compensated the village so far and is not going to compensate, the village has lost its internal capacity and reserves to cope with the complex climate conditions that have resulted in a situation in a village that has caused price increases. The government has not been able to stop the sluggish rise in the price of bread, the basic food that has been going on since the beginning of 2003, and in the last 10 days the prices have risen, yesterday after the Prime Minister's report we called the regions again, and he called the wrong numbers. Prices for bread have grown 1.5 to 1.8 times if you take one kilogram of bread, not a loaf of bread, because it's easier, and it's a lie of the population going, I insist again, the figure of actually one kilogram of bread of standard bread has become more expensive 1.5 to 1.8 times. The flour has grown at a price of 2-2.5 times, and the price has gone up 2-3 times, and the price has not gone down today, no action has yet been taken, sugar -- twice, oil -- 1.2, 1.8-2 times. These are the data that we've been calling our regions this night, and we've been confirmed by our people who live real and buy these products in stores and not in markets. The government’s inaction led to the fact that trade in bread due to opaqueness, price uncontrolledness became a tool for looting and manufacturing, a 7 billion - dollar I've called it earlier, and the population is wide open. It's coming today. So 7 billion. Some 8 billion were stolen from the producers, and if we don't get the price, they're going to take it into the bottom of the population. Further, the government, the Supreme Council's failure to intervene in price politics, the oppression of fraud and speculatives will sustain the state's economy and lead people to hunger. What do we propose? We propose that we recognize the government's work to ensure the stability of the nation's food market as unsatisfactory, given yesterday's information, we suggest that we take the following urgent measures: First, to return the prices for grain and basic food to the condition that was on January 1, 2003, on January 1st, not Sunday back; to allocate two million tons of food grain to the Reserves immediately, for which to propose the necessary changes to the State budget of Ukraine. We mean that these two million tons of grain will create opportunities for the government to do product interventions and thus fight speculators with economic means. Those figures that the Prime Minister named yesterday at the State Reserve, they're not enough because they're just going to spill government money and they're not going to break any price. Next. We believe that the three-year term for credit resources issued by the APC for this year should be restructured extremely, because the village today is unable to recover these credit resources, and the state must act as a guarantor. Why the state, because the state has produced such consequences through its economic policy. We think today's task number one -- and yesterday we talked about this -- is to provide an agro-industrial complex with high quality seeds of winter wheat. If we don't buy 2 million tons of seeds, we won't sow this year and we'll have long-term effects in the village and next year. Because with the grain that's in the village right now, in 2004 it's just not going to be, there's nothing to grow it from. It's another 2 million and 200 have to be bought. Develop an active system for the early lending of farmers from August 1, 2003. Today we have a financial opportunity. Instead of the 7 billion who stole grain traders in the village, the state needs to think about how the village needs to get real financial resources so that people can plan their jobs and shut down if we talk about the next situation. We believe that it is necessary to ensure that government administrations do not forge a shaft of grain this year, because the numbers are not called. And last of all, it's extremely principled. We believe that the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs are criminally inactive in this situation. Therefore, we believe that the Supreme Council’s decision to oblige them to investigate urgently the circumstances of the sharp increase in grain prices and food products in 2003, to complete the investigation into the abuse of the grain market in 2002, which caused the APC a loss of 7 billion dollars, and to take immediate action. And it's important that the leaders of the Supreme Council's forces report on this situation daily, because in addition to economic methods, we need to use administrative methods, otherwise we will not fight this corruption and speculation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u29	Thank you, Joseph Vicentiovich. Yeah, one minute. Dear colleagues, not all of them, so let's define a fraction. Please, I can see it. Stanislaw Gurenko. What a discussion!? Today is the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u30	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I want to draw your attention to the conclusion of my colleague, the head of the agrarian committee, who said that this ruling on the committee was not discussed. Without taking it out for adoption, I think it's just contempt for the problems that exist in agriculture today. And I have a specific question for my colleague Tomic. How much does the grain committee consider it necessary to purchase at the rate of duty and not to pay VAT for it, as proposed by the law? Because now, according to the head of the Customs Committee, the price of grain for imports into Ukraine is now $98. And if we open the door today for millions or for an indefinite number of tons of grain in Ukraine, it'll just be a total theft and a robbery of execution -- nothing more. I'd like to ask you one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u31	You, Ivan Fedorovich, accumulate questions and then answer them. As far as the committee wasn't concerned. Well, respectable national MPs, well, we can't all work for the committee. Already, it would seem possible for them to just consider the issues that are proposed. Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Stanislav Ivanovich, honoring Joseph Vikcentiovich, you are asking a question. Do you not see that neither the government nor the majority of us need this issue? They are not standing in the rostrum, they are not offering anything, they are voting against the inclusion of these issues in the agenda. So what 500 million do we have to give them to steal them again? Dear friends, a critical situation in the state! Where is the government in the rostrum?Oh, my God! Where is his program of action that he was reporting here, and what has been done?Oh, my God! Why are you asking Tomic? He's not the Prime Minister. Where's the Prime Minister?Oh, my God! I ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as the leader of the majority, then you go out to the rostrum and speak for the majority. What should be done in the country?Oh, my God! The country’s disaster took place in the market, and it continues to grow. No one from the government, they speak up, and they only offer. Where's the majority of you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am Deputy Assadchev, whom I respect as experts, would like to say that he would be a little more cautious in his conclusions. I am the head of the Supreme Council, not the leader of the majority. That's the first one. One second. I think yesterday we had to ask the honourable National Deputy Prime Minister the question. Third. Dear colleagues, when we discussed the faction leaders with the Prime Minister, we needed to demonstrate the same principle of position rather than the treaty position demonstrated by the leaders of all factions without exception, opposition, and most, I emphasize, the treaty. They said what they wanted to hear from the government. Yeah, you don't need lines. Yeah, next minute. Today we are discussing an issue that does not need to be included in the agenda, since it has been considered. We should evaluate the decision, and what assessment we will give is the objectivity and integrity of the national MPs. Let's talk specifically about the amendments. Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, please. Enough with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u34	The majority of the factions of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party have developed and implemented a draft Supreme Council Regulation on additional measures to address the agricultural crisis. The decision is given to you. Tomic stopped at the main moments. I just want to define the following, that we tried to focus on one thing in this decision, if we don't support the state programme today, the state budget, our legislation of our manufacturer, we're just going to help him work properly to get, really, guarantees from the state that prices are going to be normal, that production is going to buy it, then we're going to be bumping into the situation that we have all the time this year. This is provided for in the decree. And the main thing is that today we're asking the government to allocate at least 500 million dollars to overcome the difficult weather situation and the natural disaster that has taken place in the agrarian sector. Next. We're counting draft laws, they're being introduced into the hall today, and they're predicting an improvement in the country. The main one is the Act on the Continuation of Taxes on Added Costs. In addition, we are obliged to search for opportunities and buy at least 1 million tons of grain from the agricultural producer this year. Create a state reserve, an intervention fund and keep prices on the market. We also suggest that insurance payments be spent, as it will continue to be, in the budget, because otherwise it will only strike a peasant. The farmer himself, given the cost of his insurance, will not be able to insure his crops, and that amount must be at least 450 million. For financial support from the agro-industry complex, to allocate up to 400 million. The government has already done it, done it. To pay for subsidies, to produce animal production. And there's this promise by Mikola Janović Azarov that if the benefits are eliminated, it's going to be in the amount that these benefits were, and that's at least 2 billion dollars, for the financing of collateral, intervention operations with agricultural products, to still allocate about 1 billion dollars, and the logic of the grant is direct, so it's going to cost the value added tax. And to draft a bill by September 1st for consideration by the Supreme Council on the preservation of a 1-percent currency assembly, jewelry, cars, mobile phones to target them for the loss of the Pension Fund. Otherwise, if we put all these losses on a peasant today, 33, 32 percent of the wages. We're going to destroy the total employment of the rural population. In addition, we propose to the National Bank to launch a new lending system, a special loan to the APC. And this program provides for long-term credit to the agricultural sector. All of this is indicated in our determination. In addition, when we study the situation in the areas, we ask where the disaster has particularly struck the villagers, postponed payments to the budget, and removed the fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u35	Dear National Deputies! In view of the fact that the process of our work is essentially going straight into the corner, I announce a break of 30 minutes. I invite the factions and groups to meet immediately in the office of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council so that we can agree and continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u36	Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats, we'll continue our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Dear colleagues, I am authorized by the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, as well as by the government to inform you of what we have discussed and what result we have achieved. I'd like a moment of your attention. It's about the APC situation and the food market. We agreed, please listen carefully, dear colleagues. We agreed that now, with the participation of the government of the agrarian committees and budget policy, all those who want to work out a single draft decision, but are real, and that's what's happening in the food market and the situation in the agro-industrial complex. After the break, we'll vote on it, but it's real. We also agreed that we would adopt the laws that are necessary and that we discussed about the APC, we agreed. We also agreed that we are now moving to a meeting schedule that we have a complex question about sending bills to the Constitutional Court -- about amending the Constitution, I mean, bills. If we're going to have collegiates, we've agreed, before we start to discuss this issue, we'll also meet with faction leaders, but we have to make a positive decision. And one more moment. The faction leaders gave me a strong warning that I wouldn’t get hot and comment emotionally. I'm bringing this situation to your attention, too, but it's caused by the fact that we're all in pain for the state of affairs and for decisions to be made that are not unnecessary. Dear leaders of the MP factions and groups, did I report correctly? That's right. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the draft decree on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced. Please, head of the committee. Julia Volodymyrna, tell Alexandra Turkinov what we agreed on. The question has already begun to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u38	One moment, Dragibok, please. Oleg Pullibok's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! At the beginning of our plenary session today, the National MP, Zvaric, asked you to ask the Secretariat what you have done to provide a list of the deputies who are not present for some reason or another today at the session and in the subsequent removal of their cards. I was thinking that after the break you should announce this list. I'd ask you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, there are these lists. I can announce now. They are on the treatment of Droguntsev Sergei, Sklar Vladimir, Mihovich Ivan, Kafarsky Vladimir. Hospital No. 1 for treatment is in Feofania Hospital the first four. Unclean Sergei. So there is glory to God that is healthy, but this has been handed over to me by appropriate documents. They're on a mission: Oleg Belarus, Reznik, Potapov, Anthemuk. There are, you see, people already. That's good. They are on vacation: Jankowski and Teryohin. I'm transferring these materials to. I'll give you the official ones that are now and ask the committee to take another look at these questions. This is officially what they gave me. Anything, please. I'll just ask you to look at these materials later. I've officially given you what I've been given, and I'm asking you to take care of it. What do you want from me? There's Suhi, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. All these lists we're going to check again, we're going to specify, and if that's necessary, and we're going to keep you informed. Dear colleagues. The draft calendar plan for the next fourth session of the Supreme Council for the fourth call was prepared in accordance with the requirements of article 2.1.3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and was reviewed and supported at the meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council on June 18, this year. The committee took into account the Committee’s proposals, including budget issues, as well as parliamentary factions and groups. According to an article in the Constitution of Ukraine, plenary sessions of the fourth session of the Supreme Council are proposed to begin on September 2, 2003 and to finish its work on January 16, 2004. During this time, honourable colleagues are scheduled to work in plenary mode for 10 weeks, i.e. 33 days, 6 weeks - 32 days - work is foreseen in committees and factions and 4 weeks - 19 days - the work of national deputies in the districts is foreseen. In order to comply with the procedure for the adoption of the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine - I would like to stress this in particular - for the following year, it is meant that, in November of the month, plenary meetings are proposed in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code. The committee therefore proposes to support the scheduled draft calendar plan and to adopt the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Please vote. Let's show you how we vote. [[11:43:02]] For 416 It's been decided. Thank you. A draft Supreme Council regulation on how to explain the work of the fourth session of the Supreme Council on the fourth call by Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, head of the committee, please, is being announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, you know that we have a procedure to explain the activities of the Supreme Council for the activities of our convening we have had no problems in our relationship with the National Radio Company. And the format of the relationship is in the new decision. We've had some problems in the last few months with the national television company, and we're proposing an option that I think is more acceptable. And the only novelty that we're proposing here is that, you know, there's a lot of discussion going on about the possibility of creating parliamentary cable television. We're setting up a task here for the Supreme Council's Apparatus to analyze the possibility in parallel with this procedure for the disclosure of the Supreme Council to prepare documents on the creation of satellite cable parliamentary television, and Nacrada is preparing for this decision. This, in our view, is the two - way route that will enable us to provide Ukrainian citizens with more complete and objective information about the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, please, please, Teren. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u45	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, please say, well, let's say we make a perfectly normal decision on how to explain the work of the fourth session, I think not for the branch, but for the citizens of Ukraine to know clearly what we're taking and what we're doing. How do you appreciate this broadcast that comes out on Monday in the light of the day when people are either at work or people are, say, at work. It's completely ineffective. And that's why I think I need to change time, otherwise consensus action zero. The voters are criticizing us for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u46	I understand that this position has been removed. There is no such position. On Monday, our live television program, which the National Television Company put us at an awkward time, does not exist. On Monday, then, we unloaded and predict that Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday only on the day of the Supreme Council’s work, live programs go on the evening, and the summary goes on Saturday. So we give our voters the opportunity to hear day by day what's happening here in our country, and according to the respective representation quota, all factions are expressed on a specific day on specific bills. We've removed this colosseum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u47	Victor Terrence. Ah, Sergey the Chief, please. I didn't see it, I'm sorry, then School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u48	Sergey Golovatius, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear reporter! Your draft regulation provides for the possibility of speaking on national television of all factions on a proportional basis. My question is that last week, the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe approved a draft resolution that will be considered in September at the September session and approved by the Assembly. This draft resolution requires the Ukrainian authorities to ensure equal access to state television by the opposition forces represented in Parliament, equal access. Unfortunately, that draft decision you're proposing is about a proportional principle, a proportional principle does not provide for equality. So how do you think we're going to correct our determination, which provides for a proportional principle, not the principle of equality? Because I think the Ukrainian authorities should have done what they would have to do with the Assembly in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u49	Sergey Petrovich, I think this is the general norm of current legislation on equal access. But when it comes to the work of the Supreme Council, we have in the regulations and other standards of proportionality. I come out, the committee's been acting on this principle of proportionality. And by the way, there were no warnings from any MP group, a faction that, let's say, by dividing each MP group and faction proportionally, some rights were violated by some MP group or faction. I think the equality of opposition and most people need to be spoken in a broad context, on commercial channels for the most part. And here in the presentation of the Supreme Council, I think the principle of proportionality that we've set up is compromised.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u50	Please, just on the day of the Supreme Council’s work, live programs go on the evening, and the summary goes on Saturday. So we give our voters the opportunity to hear day by day what's happening here in our country, and according to the respective representation quota, all factions are expressed on a specific day on specific bills. We've removed this colosseum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u51	Victor Terrence. Ah, Sergey the Chief, please. I didn't see it, I'm sorry, then School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u52	Sergey Golovatius, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear reporter! Your draft regulation provides for the possibility of speaking on national television of all factions on a proportional basis. My question is that last week, the monitoring committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe approved a draft resolution that will be considered in September at the September session and approved by the Assembly. This draft resolution requires the Ukrainian authorities to ensure equal access to state television by the opposition forces represented in Parliament, equal access. Unfortunately, that draft decision you're proposing is about a proportional principle, a proportional principle does not provide for equality. So how do you think we're going to correct our determination, which provides for a proportional principle, not the principle of equality? Because I think the Ukrainian authorities should have done what they would have to do with the Assembly in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u53	Sergey Petrovich, I think this is the general norm of current legislation on equal access. But when it comes to the work of the Supreme Council, we have in the regulations and other standards of proportionality. I come out, the committee's been acting on this principle of proportionality. And by the way, there were no warnings from any MP group, a faction that, let's say, by dividing each MP group and faction proportionally, some rights were violated by some MP group or faction. I think the equality of opposition and most people need to be spoken in a broad context, on commercial channels for the most part. And here in the presentation of the Supreme Council, I think the principle of proportionality that we've set up is compromised.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u54	Please. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u55	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, we have discussed here in fact the faction that the Turkish and Wolinian decrees to amend the Supreme Council's decision on how to explain the work of the third session. And I'm actually suggesting because I want to look at it and say the committee's opinion on this, because, in fact, we are now actually sabotaged by the "UT-1" channel of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is there, and what is there, believe me, does not withstand any criticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u56	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, apparently, our colleague at school meant a situation that arose in us and is where we are now. We are now, the disclosure takes place on the basis of a decree we voted on at the end of the previous session. And after we made a new decision, the National Television Company, as you know, doesn't. But what's left is two weeks. And the conflict is not over. I think in this decision for the next session we're taking down this possibility of conflict. And after we accept it, I think in the summer we're going to be able to find a common language with the National Company to make this postponing. And those proposals that Alexander Turchinov made about direct air programs are taken into account here and will be implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u58	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u59	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, it is very good that we are discussing with you today and will obviously adopt a draft decree that will explain, more faithfully, regulate the disclosure of the work of the next session of the Supreme Council. But I assure you, even if we increase proportionality, we will increase time and so on, on our air, on Ukrainian air, there are, unfortunately, 5 to 10 minutes of those that, above all, are crippling both our work and the work of the Supreme Council, and Parliamentarianism in general. I mean, before. For 5 minutes, Dmitri Korczynski, who certainly does not defile the government’s activities or the activities of any judicial branch of government, is merely a slanderer of the activity of the Ukrainian Parliament. It used to be a projection projector, it's a sink projector. As you think it is possible to prove yet another point of the ban on the corruption of the work of the Supreme Council by such broadcasts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u60	It's a problem of law and ethics. We can, without writing down a decree, remind journalists that there are both those and those you told us about. That there are unwritten standards called journalistic ethics and journalistic professionalism. But I would ask you not to discuss the situation in Ukrainian television, but to talk about decision-making and decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u61	I'm here to support Santa Tomenka, so let's take a decision and respond to all the criticism with a punch job. Please, Kenzier, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Mikolo! Perhaps it would be useful in this decision that we should now take, to provide for the possibility for the Marjorie MPs in the areas and deputies that have been elected by the list, but represent some regions, also on the radio, on television district have the appropriate time to inform voters about the activities and the Supreme Council, and theirs as members of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, we have a law, a separate law that provides for the activities of the media as part of public awareness and local self-government. In general, and the committee was preparing an explanation, it allows major MPs to perform an appropriate interval.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u64	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u65	The other thing is that district broadcasters are violating these requirements. Therefore, we need to be more firm in avoiding such wrongdoing. But if we're going to make this decision a problem of regions, major elections, I think we're going to be wrong in this part of the fact that it's still the prerogative of the law that exists today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u66	Igor Ostasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u67	This is about the Supreme Council as a whole as an institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u68	And we'll vote. That's what I'm suggesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u69	Igor Ostrash, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. I mean, the washlight. Please tell me, does Sergey Petrovich really raise the very right subject - Headmaster - of equal access, does the committee have real monitoring? How is the activity of Ukrainian politicians reflected on commercial channels? In time, I would very much like such data to be published by all the Ukrainian national deputies. And the second. How do you feel about the direct television broadcast of the Supreme Council of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u70	A TV show? I'm sorry, there's something very wrong with me. Here's something.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u71	How do you feel about direct broadcasting?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u72	As far as general disclosure is concerned. Of course, we have monitoring on every channel of the situation. You know, you know, you're watching TV, which is two parameters, quantity and quality. The vast majority of the channels, of course, have the advantage of parliamentary majority representatives, and on some channels, the position is more or less balanced. But I'd put it this way, in terms of quality. To this day, the position of the Supreme Council in its various manifestations is not represented in many ways by our society. That's why we predict, even though we're on the First National Radio, we're more powerfully represented and we're developing a mechanism to be seen on live television in satellite and cable networks in the near future. You know, that's up to 30 percent coverage. But the first step, as we develop it, will be very serious. So let us vote, take this step, so that in the near future the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council will be more complete, objective, and reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u73	Thank you. I'm voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on how to explain the work of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, this is number 3663, in general. Please vote. [[11:55:18]] For 433 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider the draft decree on Government Day in September. There are two projects. In the order of coming, I give the word. Peter Mikolaiovich, will you base your decision? This is draft 3665, Ivan Tomic please prepare. Is Ivan Fedorovich here? Well, then, from the committee, please, who will it be? Calinchuk. Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Your opinion is proposed for Project 3665 on Government Day, Government Day in September of this year on food balance for the period 2003-2004 and the Government's food security measures. This issue was raised before everyone realized that there was a real threat to food security. Then the Supreme Council rejected and did not support the project. But the situation did not change for the better, but it got worse and worse. So, based on today's need to figure out what the Ukrainian grain balance should be, so that there is food grain, feed grain, so that we can have sown material to provide the insurance funds with all the conditions that are necessary for the village today, as well as financing, parity of prices and much more, we are also making a draft decision on the order of the Government's day in September 2003. We are also coming out of this, and I would like to address you, dear fellows, today must consider draft Law 3373 on a moratorium on the price of bread and bread products. This is exactly the kind of action that we should use with you today to keep the situation from being able to share the shadow economy with those who were just sitting on the resources of the state and producing the agricultural and industrial complex, not allowing them to continue to enrich themselves. Therefore, as we come from a specific situation that may soon become a part of the animal industry, we suggest that we take a very careful look at this order of the day so that we can understand that if we do not work on the balance of the grain in the country, there will be a problem tomorrow that is due to the fact that meat from January will necessarily increase sharply in price. It will certainly grow sharply. Today, the head of a large cattle was practically cut out. This is the first time. It's different. The problem with milk and supplies. Today, we should have a clear view of the grain balance in connection with some government officials preparing Ukraine for the WTO. If we do not protect our own product and market in Ukraine today, tomorrow the market will be dominated by only those from abroad who import cheap products and destroy our internal market. That's why I'm addressing you, my dear colleagues, so that we can get through this in detail, have objective information, make decisions about the Government's Day in September of this year, and consider the issue of the food balance for the period 2003-2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u75	Please sit down, Peter Mikolaiovich. Kalinczuk's second draft of the ruling. But I'd like to go while our colleague goes, so that you can pay attention to the wording there, you have to be precise in the second order. There's some wording that needs to be clarified. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u76	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, a committee on agrarian politics and land relations, reviewed the draft and decrees of the Supreme Council. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council, proposed by the People's Deputies of Simonenko, Gurenko, Tkachenko and the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposed by members of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. We emerged from the fact that in May, when we heard information from the Cabinet of Ministers, we recorded in the Supreme Council's ruling, and this was adopted, the fourth point that in September, we heard the government in the Supreme Council about the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree of 15 May 2003 No. 787 on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on compliance with the requirements of legislation by the executive authorities in the implementation of the spring-field work package and the enforcement of legislation in preparation for and implementation of the 2003 crop harvest. But if you've read the Supreme Council's Order carefully and you remember that decision, and I can remind you that I have it, then there's a whole range of aspects of government's work in the agricultural sector of the economy that went beyond doing spring-field work and preparing for harvesting. So we thought that by informing the government about the implementation of this decree, the issues that Peter Mikolaiovich was talking about would be suppressed. After a long debate, a majority of the votes were taken by the committee: to hold one day a meeting of the government, the Supreme Council, where the government would report, but to ask the first questions that were raised by the National Deputies — members of the Committee of the Supreme Council, the Agrarian Committee; and the second question by the second reporter — to ask about the Government Day proposed by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u77	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there are two projects. So in the order of coming and in the order of their presentation, which has just taken place, I'm putting it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? Ukraine's Supreme Council Decision 3665 on Ukrainian Government Day in September 2003 on food and feed balance for 2003-2004 and government action on food security. This project was reported by national deputy Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. There's a vote coming. [[12:02:24]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Although that is the measure that we need to consider. Well, now we're gonna go around the circle then, come on. I am voting on the draft Decree 3665-1 on Government Day in Ukraine in September 2003 on compliance by the executive authorities with the requirements of legislation when carrying out integrated field work and enforcement measures in preparation for and implementation of the 2003 crop harvest. This project was introduced by the Agrarian Policy Committee. [[12:03:23]] For 334 It's been decided. Although I would ask the Agrarian Policy Committee to prepare for the consideration of this issue and the government to speak directly about balances and resources and security. That's not how we do it. We took one day. Yes, we will unite him, lead him. How can we ask two questions? I once again put to the vote the draft Decree 3665 on the Government Day of September 2003 on the balance of food and feed resources for the period 2003-2004 and the Government's measures to ensure food security. So we're going to consider two questions on Government Day. Please vote. [[12:04:25]] For 222 I'm re-voting Bill 3665. Please vote. Yeah, let's vote. [[12:04:51]] For 235 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, I beg your attention, let's move on to the next question. May I have your attention, Your Honor? We agreed that if we have a malfunction now, then we'll take a break and we'll consult again. Let's work now. Please, we've already taken a break, please. I'm calling a break for 30 minutes, up to 12 hours 35 minutes. To the leaders of the MPs and factions, please gather in the office of the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u78	Dear National Deputies! Please take your jobs, we'll continue our work. Let me inform you about the agreements reached between the leaders of the MP factions and groups. We made a deal like this. That we will now consider draft regulations that are proposed for draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, in the following rules: a reporter for each project - within 5 minutes, answers to questions - within 5 minutes, agreed on five, not three, so agreed. We need half an hour for all of this. Then we go to the vote. I'm inviting you to the show. Matvienko will tell you all about it now. Listen to the leader of the faction who agreed with everything. I'm telling you again, dear colleagues, we're now looking at this sequence. Reports Anatoly Matvienko of the Committee on State Building. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the village, what projects? We agreed this way about the village, which is now working on a joint draft regulation, we're going to vote on this joint draft regulation. And now we're looking at other issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm begging you, come on. Then cancel the arrangements that have just been reached with the leader of your faction. What do you want from me? Dear colleagues! Oh, come on, we just finished the break. Once again, I want to report that we all have an agreement, including with Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. What do you want now? Well, ask. Let Sergey Petrovich go ahead and tell you. So I'm telling you, now I want to tell you. We're clear. We're going to make the right decision today. I say again, I'll put it to a vote if there's a motion for a transfer, and we'll move it. Take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u79	In writing through the committee, instead of making an offer, there is no such thing. What can't be put on? We will discuss them in turn. Why can't you bet? [[B in m in s a l in]] So we're not looking at projects, we're looking at draft regulations to direct them. This is how we will vote in favour of referral to the Constitutional Court. You sit down, I can't tell you when you're standing over me. Head of procedure, please. I'm asking Victor Andryovich Yushchenka to inform the faction we agreed on. That's not how you and Yushchenk made a deal, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, a procedural problem has arisen. The agenda you've been given today is the draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine. He reports: Minister of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinovich and Deputy Musiyak. Such a question, the honourable Head of the Supreme Council, is unconstitutional. Because the Constitution provides that this formulation can only be asked when the Constitutional Court has reached its conclusion when rule 159 is upheld. So when we get the conclusions, then you define the order of the day and then Lavrinovich will report it. And if he wants to, even Musiak, he'll go out and report it. In order to get out of this procedural situation, we must now decide on a change in the formulation of the agenda and write down a procedure for sending bills to the Constitutional Court that have been tabled by the subjects of the legislative initiative in accordance with the 154th article of the Constitution. And two of them are the President and the MPs. If such a question is so formulated and put into the agenda, we are starting debates, submitting drafts on a procedure only. Because this issue, as the Constitutional Court has said in its decision, is not regulated by law. And everything they did two years earlier after the coup in the Ukrainian House was illegal, taking the directional decrees. We need to determine today that in principle we do not have the right to make a decision on direction until we, as the legislative body, resolve the matter. If we go that way, then we can continue the plenary session. If we consider the question of how it was formulated, it is formulated in violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u81	Turn off the microphone. You don't run Parliament here and that's it. I'd like to inform the people's deputies again. Turn off the rostrum. I would like to inform the National Deputies that on the Conciliation Council three times, a pity that there was no Sergey Petrovich, was proposed, and this was the decision of the Supreme Council, because there is no procedure for dealing with this issue, it was suggested that we would consider the presentation of each project and then vote in favour of their referral to the Constitutional Court. What the Minister of Justice will do about the presidency. I'm telling you again, don't shout, I'll tell you. And as far as the commission is concerned, Musiak will be speaking. I'm telling you again, yesterday at the meeting. I want you to be human. You're not dogs. I want to quote you. What kind of people are you?Oh, my God! I want to tell you again, let me just say the word! Once again, I want to say that twice on the conciliatory board, it was agreed. It all worked out! We have now decided that we will consider draft regulations on the procedure for sending these projects. That's what I'm suggesting and I've already told you! I told you about it!Oh, my God! We won't vote anything, it's all agreed. So we have three draft guidelines for direction. The first reports on the procedure, the first reports from Matthewnko, the second reports from the Infantry and the third reports from Sergey Petrovich Headate. Was it agreed? I ask the faction leaders, Alexander Alexanderovich, tell us, Julia Timoshenko, why are you silent?Oh, my God! Why did you put the fighters here?Oh, my God! Alexander Frost. I'm asking Victor Yushchenka to say the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u82	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! First of all, I'm not saying anything because I don't have words. And now I want to say essentially. What Sergey the Great did was essentially right. And so without even taking down the decision of the Conciliation Council on the presentation, the first thing you have to do is consider the procedure, that's a separate question, and it's not included in the order of the day. So let's put the orientation procedure in order of the day, and then, if necessary, we can make a presentation, more than that, we can even write in the decision itself that the Supreme Council is presenting a project. But this is the subject of a review after the procedure has been clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u83	I want, honourable national deputies, to say that these questions are procedurally included in the agenda. They're included in the agenda. Alexander Aleksandrovitch, why is this insight coming up, tell me, are you an experienced man?Oh, my God! They're a machine that comes in, they're on the schedule of meetings. You will read the order of the day of the third session and see. Read it, read it! Please, Frost. We just talked and you agreed, Alexander Alexanderovich, with everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u84	That's exactly what I'm saying. Please don't worry, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll say it again. Look, the order of the day that was introduced today is the question: drafts of the Law on Amendments to the Constitution. But there is no draft procedure for dealing with this issue. So we need to do as Sergey the Headman suggested. It was only at the Conciliation Council that we discussed the procedure for dealing with the matter. We briefly include this question. Then we move on to the project that you've already given away. I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u85	Okay. Sit down and we'll vote. Have a seat, please. Let's vote on what Alexander Alexander Moroz proposed. Yeah, we'll be clear. Take your seats. What do you suggest? You're thinking of setting up a procedure here! I'm putting it to a vote. I'm asking you to pay attention to the inclusion in the agenda. A break of 30 minutes is announced. Faction leaders, please come into the office.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We'll continue our work. During the break, the faction leaders and the MPs basically agreed on what we talked about at the previous meeting, namely: when we consider this issue, we come up with a very procedural nature. [[I remind you: draft laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine]] We don't really consider it, we don't discuss the content of the bill. We need to decide only on direction, i.e. to perform the procedural function of Parliament. For this reason, we have four draft rulings. We agreed that the authors of the decrees, I announce: Anatoly Matvienko, head of the Committee on State Building; then the second project. Two projects were implemented, the second project was introduced by the majority factions -- Vladimir Infantry will report; and the third is the committee that worked on legal policy will report to Sergey Petrovich Headate. And we're going to talk for 10 minutes and we're going to look at every draft of the ruling, and then we're going to figure out how to vote. If we have doubts, there will be mistrust between factions and groups, then we will take a break to find a reconciled position. All faction leaders agreed to this position. Therefore, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u87	I disagree, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u88	Well, you don't agree. There is the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u89	But, I'm sorry, faction leaders are not the Supreme Council. I made a motion. And I demand that the question of the agenda be resolved in a procedural manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u90	Honorary colleagues, since two draft regulations have been introduced, are automatically included in the Rules and accepted at the Conciliation Council. Then there is no need to vote for inclusion. That's why I'm asking Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich before. Anatoly Sergiyovich, please report from the site. Please report from the scene. Dear National Deputies! Sit down, I'll put in a proposal from the Chief so as not to block the rostrum. But I'm going to ask you not to vote for this proposal after that. And I'm asking you again. We made a deal with all the faction leaders. What kind of question is this? Sergey the Headman for one minute formulates a proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u91	Dear Mr. Head! First. You have no right to call on MPs to vote or not to vote for my proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u92	You have no right to block the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u93	You're the Head of the Supreme Council, you're non-fractional, and you can't call for a decision as you like it. Deputies by factions are determined by themselves. That's the first one. The other one. You, as Head of the Supreme Council, have no right to begin the consideration of the matter under the formula it formulated, as today is in the order of the day: the draft Act amending the Constitution. You may begin to question the right of Matthew to present her draft decree and others only if it is written in the agenda: the procedure for sending draft laws to the subject of the legislative initiative regarding changes to the Constitution in accordance with article 154 of the Constitution. If the Supreme Council deletes this agenda item about the project that Lavrinovich was to represent, if the Supreme Council changes and writes about the referral procedure, then please give the word Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u94	Thank you. Make another suggestion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u95	My first offer. On the removal from the agenda of the agenda of the draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u96	Let's make a second offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u97	And in exchange. About the targeting procedure, okay, let's start with inclusion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u98	There will be no inclusion. Questions are included in the agenda. No, it won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u99	But if you don't, you don't have the right to look.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u100	The questions are included in the machine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u101	He can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u102	I'm putting to the vote the proposal of national deputy Sergei the Chief, calm down. I am voting on a motion for a procedure for drafting amendments to the Constitution to the Constitutional Court. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. [[13:58:12]] For 202 The decision is not taken. The factions. Anatolia Sergiyovich for the report. Question included, included, I say again. We just agreed that. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to announce once again what we've agreed on: faction leaders. If you don't have a wish, I'll close the meeting today. All of it! What? So what's the secret vote? What's the secret vote? What, about inclusion? Question is, I'm not gonna ask him or rape me. Dear National Deputies! Since the issue of draft legislation is included in the Constitution, I will no longer put it to the vote. Because it's nonsense and trying to sell inexplicably. The other one. At the faction leaders' meeting, we agreed that -- at the faction leaders' meeting -- that's now on the table. After that, we are considering draft regulations on the procedure for sending it, the laws, to the Constitutional Court. First.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-03-m0.u103	We didn't vote, so we'll vote again. Watts. Sha! Give me your word. We agreed in such a way that Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko will first report on the projects worked by the committee. And it's the first one. Then reports from the majority, then reports from the legal authorities. The first is the voting project proposed by the State Building Committee. If it's not accepted, we're taking a break and looking for agreed positions. What else do you need, tell me? [[B in m in s a l in]] The questions are included in the agenda, and I'm not going to ask. I won't bet. All of it! Either, Anatoly Sergiyovich, report it or we do it then. We're shutting down. You don't have to. You don't need to choke on me. There's a break for thirty. Dear colleagues, I want to talk to you about the Rules. The Rules do not state that the rostrum is being blocked, nor does the Rules state that they require consideration of nonexistent procedural issues, nor does the Rules state that they may conduct themselves cynically and offend themselves. And now the Rules will be mentioned when you have to fill your stomachs. A break of 16 hours is announced. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Faction leaders, please assemble in the Head's office.
