ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please, sit down and register. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:51]] Registered -398 There are 398 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Gaddaecki Leonid Mikolaiovich. Let us greet him, wish him good health, good mood, and good health. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! According to the calendar plan for the third session today, the day of the Ukrainian government is held in the morning. To implement the Supreme Council’s decision of 16 January this year, the subject of our consideration will be problems related to the provision of social, economic, legal guarantees in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich, members of the government, participates in the meeting. The government appointed Papiev Mikolaiovich, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, as the spokesman for the above - mentioned issue. The profile committee suggests that the following rules of procedure should be set: the information report should be given up to 15 minutes and an hour to answer the written and oral questions; 5 minutes to speak to a representative of the profile committee; and an hour to discuss 20 minutes. Is there no objection? I'm familiar with it. Today, there are thematic exhibitions of prosthetic or orthopedic products and rehabilitation tools, production of disabled enterprises, and exhibitions of applied art for persons with limited capabilities. The exhibits are mounted and placed in the lobby on the third floor. The exhibition is very interesting, it's essentially, and it's also a visual complement to the analytical materials that you've been given up to today's government day. It is suggested that you visit the exhibition during a break at 12 o’clock. Discussions and subsumings are scheduled to be completed by 14 hours. Dear colleagues, will there be any objection to the proposed regulation? An hour and twenty minutes. Is there no objection? Roger that. Before giving the floor to the report, I would like to agree with the proposal of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons to address the representatives of the public organizations of disabled people invited to the Government Day, namely: the Gribal Jaroslav Volodymirovich, head of the Lviv District Department of the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Fund for Disabled Persons, the Žurbenko Victoria Mikolayovna, Secretary-General of the National Assembly of Disabled Persons of Ukraine, the Akopyan Olena Gračekovni, a well-deserved sports master of Ukraine, the repeated record and champions of the world from the Paralympic swim. Is there no objection? Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, is then invited to the floor. Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u2	The Honourable Head of State, honourable national deputies, is now on Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine dealing with an important national issue that concerns more than two and a half million people with limited physical capacity and their families, people who need special attention and care for society. The government report takes place at the beginning of the international year of people with disabilities and will be an impetus to the fruitful work of all branches of government, both central and local. In the materials. which are handed over to you, honourable members of the people, was first prepared at the request of the President of Ukraine, the State Report on the Situation of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, where an attempt has been made to reflect the real state of affairs and how to deal with mature problems. This makes it easier for me to be able to explain the whole set of disability issues in full measure. Mercy, tenderness, and compassion for the weaker were a characteristic of the mentality of the Ukrainian people. Its materialization is not always related to additional material costs. Sometimes it is just a sincere desire to help. I will therefore briefly focus on the basic priorities of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. First, the initiatives of the national deputies of Ukraine and the government over the past years have introduced substantial changes and additions to the current legislation on the social protection of persons with disabilities, significant steps have been taken to improve their legal base, to develop appropriate social programmes that contribute to the movement of persons with disabilities and to society. This has helped create the right conditions for social work, vocational rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. Today, all categories of persons with disabilities, especially children with disabilities, are under the special care of the States, as well as those affected by the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, by implementing a national programme of professional rehabilitation and employment for persons with limited physical capacity for 2001-2005, which provides for radical measures to assist persons with disabilities in obtaining education, restoring employment and employment, taking into account their opportunities, increasing income levels and self-employment. Thus, the full rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, which guarantees both physical and psychological independence, provides conditions for their unhindered access to social facilities. Today, there is a process of developing a comprehensive system of rehabilitation for people with disabilities, as provided by the relevant national programme, the creation and operation of all-Ukrainian and 38 regional centres of professional, medical and social rehabilitation for adults. Among the main tasks of the programme are the creation of early intervention centres and the social rehabilitation of children with disabilities. This is facilitated by the realization of the concept of early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities, the state complex and 129 regional centres for early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities. On the slide, you can see how this was created in Ukraine. On the basis of the Ukrainian research institute, prosthetics were created a ward of child prosthetics, which had not been established in Ukraine before. A unique laboratory for the development of new materials and technologies in prosthetics has been introduced. This allows you to reduce dependence on import establishments and products. The other one. The active civil position of those who courageously overcome problems, solve their own problems, and become a productive force of society is of great importance in solving the problems of persons with disabilities. Consider the positive dynamics of teaching disabled persons in higher educational institutions. As you can see, their numbers are increasing, and there's no reduction in the number of people with disabilities to study. This process, according to the national doctrine of the development of education, provides for equal access to education for children and adults with mental and physical development. This positive trend needs to be further developed, since a trained disabled person will have equal opportunities in the labour market. The number of disabled workers has increased to 330,000 in the last three years. Last year alone, through the State Employment Service, 3,400 people with disabilities or every other person in charge were employed. Third. For a long time, there have been productive and hardworking public organizations in Ukraine that provide employment for disabled people in market conditions. This is primarily the Association of Blind and Deaf, the Association of Disabled People's Organizations of Ukraine and others that are part of the Ukrainian Social and Political Union of the National Assembly of Disabled Persons. It should be noted that today we have a legally established right to tax benefits for all businesses, social organizations of persons with disabilities. This aid amounted to more than 40 million dollars in just last year. In addition, targeted loans and irreparable financial assistance were provided to save jobs and to ensure the competitiveness of manufactured products. Four. We've managed to maintain a positive trend in the provision of prosthetic and orthopaedic products and means of transport, sanatorium and smoking. There's been an expansion of the network of institutions for medical and social and social rehabilitation. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen, on this. If in 2000 the provision of wheelchairs was 42 percent as needed, in 2001 60 percent, in 2002 it was almost 100%. In the current year, the production of wheelchairs with electric power lines will begin. That is, there will be real opportunities to compete with these products in the external markets. Over the past five years, the number of local social services centers has increased by one and a half times. They are created and operated in virtually every location and area and serve over 400,000 disabled citizens, including 36,000 war invalids and nearly 137 thousand single persons. Respectable national deputies, thanks to the amendments to the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act, have improved the financing of 311 boarding houses, which are supported by 30,000 disabled persons and about 8,000 children with mental and physical disabilities. More than 30 million dollars have been added to their maintenance. Society responds to the questions of those in need of immediate help with a compassionate attitude. This was witnessed by the annual holding of the All-U.S. charity campaign of Mercy initiated by the President of Ukraine. Labour groups, religious denominations, commercial structures, and individual citizens have in three years provided financial and natural assistance in the form of food, medicine, clothing, shoes, and fuel for more than 300 million dollars that have been given to over 2 million elderly and disabled citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth thing I want to pay special attention to is the full rehabilitation of people with disabilities, which guarantees both physical and psychological independence, the creation of conditions for their unimpeded access to social facilities: the adaptation of buildings, buildings, housing, transportation, communication, and sports facilities to their needs. Today, there are not many examples where objects of social health care, commerce, administration, and other purposes are equipped with pandas, and sound lights are installed in areas of compact residence of disabled persons. But we believe that creating barrierless access for people with disabilities is at least half the solution to social rehabilitation. On behalf of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, an appropriate government program is being prepared to address this problem. Dear National Deputies! The gains of our paralympic athletes, who demonstrate the world's power of spirit and will to win, are highly respected. Ukrainians with limited physical capacity present their high - art works at prestigious exhibitions in and outside Ukraine. The disabled are presented at an exhibition that you can see on the third floor of Parliament. 39 organizations of the disabled are actively involved in addressing social protection issues with special needs. They are part of various government bodies and commissions and are involved in the development of the most important state legislation. The government-created orgcommittee of the Year of Persons with Disabilities, which is headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco has approved measures that are actively joined by public organizations of persons with disabilities. On the eve of February 8th, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic met with nearly 30 heads of disability organizations and his summary will improve the interaction between government and disability formations. However, it is fair and honest to admit that there are still many outstanding problems, so I will stop at some of them and solve them. First. It requires continuous development of new technologies and full financing of prosthetic and orthopaedic industries. State aid and support are needed by the oldest and most numerous organizations — the Ukrainian Association of the Blind and the Ukrainian Society of the Deaf. The issue and the government’s order for part of the produce they produce is acute. The other one. The state-wide problem of job creation and employment provision has not yet been fully resolved, so the government will strengthen this direction of work and has already entrusted ministries and agencies with preparing draft changes to Ukraine's laws and regulations to create more favourable conditions for disabled businesses. So far, financing for the development and serial release of unified domestic transport vehicles has not been resolved. This also remains the concern of today’s government. The third and most important question is to reduce the percentage of people with disabilities in the general population structure. Because over the past 10 years, it has grown to more than half a million and is 2 million 700,000 people. I mean, every 18 of our fellow countrymen are disabled. National health programs, the environment, safety of work, vitality of the population, and reduced disability rates will focus on this. Dear National Deputies! Today’s stage of social protection and rehabilitation requires a coordinated and responsible policy of all branches of government: Parliament, government, and regional authorities. To strengthen social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees for persons with disabilities, the government along with you, honourable national deputies, will take steps to urgently adopt Ukrainian laws on state pension insurance and social services. Implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on additional measures to strengthen social protection for persons with disabilities and to implement persons with disabilities in Ukraine in 2003. Implementation of the government’s programme of activities in the current and coming years. According to the Social Insurance Fund’s cost of production accidents in the current year, 73 million dollars will be repaid for regressive claims against miners. During the first quarter of this year, local authorities discussed the implementation and financing of social protection programmes for disabled persons. Taking into account the situation of funding disability programs in previous years, today’s government for the support of deputies has returned to the protection of these articles in the 2003 government budget. And already in January and February, all programs of social protection for people with disabilities are funded by 100 percent. The possibility of increasing pensions and providing a minimum of living, including for persons with disabilities, will be determined by the results of the work of economic sectors in the first half of this year. We hope that the support and assistance to address the problems of social protection and rehabilitation of people with disabilities by the Supreme Council, the people’s deputies, will be permanent and meaningful. Your specific suggestions and comments that will be made today will serve as the basis for our further work together. I thank you for your attention and I hope for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u3	Thank you. You've had written questions, haven't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u4	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u5	Before we begin to answer questions, honourable national deputies, there is an opportunity for us to sign up for oral questions. Please. Okay. Start with written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, during the preparation of the Government's Day for the Ministry, there were 59 questions from the deputy factions and groups of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the individual people's deputies in order to be fair in this matter, and we also took them up on the date of submission of the questions. And I'm going to start in order of coming out of the first one. Questions from the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment, and the same question, in fact, came from the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Question: "The increase in the number of people with disabilities in Ukraine increases the importance of creating centres for the social and professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and training of domestic professionals for the professional rehabilitation of persons with disabilities for such centres. What progress has been made in this regard during 2002? What are the measures planned for 2003 and what are the projected effects?" Yes, indeed, honourable national deputies, in recent years there has been a steady trend in Ukraine to increase the number of people with disabilities. Over the past ten years, their numbers have increased from 2 million 100,000. up to 2 million thousand. That is why the government is paying special attention to this problem today. And we're counting on the creation of a network of rehabilitation centers that would allow people with disabilities to adapt today. Employment should take priority today. I would like to point out that the State is taking the first steps in this regard. You know we have 223 rehabilitation centers today. First of all, I would like to point out that the State Center for the Social and Medical Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities opened up in Lutisz, Vishgrad, in the past year. And this has become a scientific center, a methodical center for other centers, and in our Ministry's system, there are 38 of them located in all regions of Ukraine. Today, these centers, they can honestly say, do not satisfy all the problems for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. That is why when the Prime Minister visited these centers on February 8, he was assigned to create at least 140 of them throughout Ukraine, that is to say, in every inhabited area where there are more than 50,000. The population, the rehabilitation center was created. The government is also paying attention to early rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities. The city of Mikolayev has established and operates such a centre, as well as 129 centres of early social rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u7	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u8	in the regions of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u9	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I'm sorry, please. You have to answer very tightly because you already have a second report, not an answer to questions. And let's do it one at a time. You've answered the letter. A dry oral question, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u10	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, please tell me whether the government, including the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour, is providing more stringent control over financial discipline in those funds that fall within your jurisdiction, especially I mean, we've recently listened to it, we've listened to it, we've heard it on our Social Policy and Work Committee, the Social Protection Fund at the time of temporary loss of employment, burial and birth. Because if such a state of financial discipline is in other funds, it will be very difficult for us to continue to work on improving the legislative framework for the pension fund and the social insurance fund for pensions and health care.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, yes, indeed, we have today three social insurance funds, which, you know, are managed today by the principles of tripartism, i.e. in the supervision of the boards and the administration of these funds, consists of 15 representatives from the state, professional associations and employers. It's a fund, if you call it short, taking into account the first deputy's request to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to delay the response, I'll say, it's a social insurance fund after temporary loss of employment, a trauma fund and a social protection fund for unemployment. Yes, indeed, according to the regulations of these funds, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is overseeing their activities. And we're doing this so that the activities of these funds are within the framework of existing legislation. As for your fund, there was a fact that on December 27, the head of the foundation personally, without a government meeting of the fund, approved the fund’s 2003 budget. Yes, this fact has taken place, which provides for the financing of articles that do not have the right to be financed by this fund. I sent my letter as Minister of Labour and Social Policy yesterday and I signed an order from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to reverse the budget for this fund for 2003, and I plan to do so tomorrow, so that we can get the foundation's immediate management and bring it into line with actual legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u12	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u13	The written question is, "How do you meet the requirements of the current and social legislation of Ukraine regarding the employment of persons with disabilities, the creation of safe working conditions for them, the improvement of living conditions for persons with disabilities. This question was asked by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. In accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine, the State promotes labour rehabilitation and the employment of disabled persons in free and newly created places adapted to disabled people's jobs and claimed by enterprises. Local executives, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Measures for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, have created jobs within the limits provided for in article 19 of the Act. In those businesses where there is a rule that within 4 percent of each enterprise's employees, jobs for the disabled are to be created. If this rule is not fulfilled, then article 20 of the relevant law will enter into force, according to which penalties will be imposed. And the money that comes into the State budget and continues to be allocated to the Social Protection Fund, they focus primarily on creating new jobs for people with disabilities, supporting public organizations of people with disabilities, and supporting rehabilitation centres for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u14	Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Alexandrovsky, Deputy Alexandrovsky, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u16	Alexandersky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u17	Dear Mikhail Nikolayevich, I am a member of the Communist faction, and I also represent the city of Harikov. I really have a lot of people with disabilities coming to me. First, with complaints of low-quality prosthetics that are manufactured on their orders. Second. It's a very big line for prosthetics. I have also applied to the Cabinet of Ministers, and to a prosthetic plant and research institute, there is a prosthetic in Harikov. And the answer was that today the problem was that it was underfunded, both by the manufacture of prosthetics and by new developments. And that's why people get low-quality prosthetics and pretty old models. Please tell me, how do you plan to ensure that the necessary funding is provided so that the disabled do not stand in line and receive the necessary quality prosthetics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u18	Thank you. Indeed, this problem exists, and the government is working on it. You know, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy system, there's a production union called Croprotez, which consists of enterprises, both state-owned property, casinos, and private property. They are accounted for by 32 businesses in Ukraine. These businesses, at the request of disabled persons, perform work and produce prosthetics, orthodoxy, and other necessary rehabilitation facilities. Last year there was a problem, in 2002. The problem was that according to the government budget, these expenditures were funded by 51 percent. And we did the following. This year, from the State Budget of Ukraine, I think this article 35 of the State Budget of Ukraine is already a protected article. That is to say, in 2003, prosthetics were funded by 100 percent. And January and February shows that this is exactly how funding happens. As for the quality of prosthetics. You know, in Kharkiv, we have a science research institute for prosthetics and prosthetics that develops new kinds of products according to the technology of German firms, Austrian firms. And we're constantly working on improving their quality. Last week we were visited by German specialists who admitted that these nodes, which are made for prosthetics today, and government orders, which are located in Ukrainian businesses in most of their defence and industrial complex, are now beginning to meet international standards. So I don't think there's going to be any complaints about the quality of the disability product in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u19	One question cannot be answered that long. People’s MPs are justifiably indignant. They've been logged in, and they won't get word to you. Please have a written question. That's right. Michael Mikolaiovich, written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u20	What measures are being taken to develop a network of services for the organisation of social and household services for disabled persons and the single disabled elderly who live in domestic conditions? From 1988 onward, the social protection system began to establish social welfare centers for pensioners and single, incapacitated citizens, and the number of these local centres is steadily increasing. If we had 450 such centers five years ago, today they are 750, and they serve some 700,000 single pensioners. These centres employ 35,000 social workers who provide forty different services and serve 437,000 citizens at home. This includes the supply of food and medicine, food preparation, doctors ’ challenges, laundry, and housing, fuel supplies, wood cooking, utility bills, and so forth. Also last year, during the charity campaign, Charity was collected from enterprises, organizations of charity contributions to 140 million dollars, which enabled us to provide more charity and material assistance to 2 million Ukrainian citizens. I think that in November of the month in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the first reading of the Ukrainian Social Services Act, we will be able to engage non-state and other organizations in this important work and to increase social protection and address the provision of services to vulnerable citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u21	Tomich Ivan Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u22	The faction of our Ukraine. Please give the floor to the head of the National Movement of Ukraine, Hennadia Josephovich Udovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u23	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, according to you, you have a good law on the foundations of social policy, the social protection of persons with disabilities, is a fund for the social protection of persons with disabilities, but the fund, in accordance with the Presidential decree of 1997, does not appear to have the right to self-test the activities of enterprises. That is, it cannot control how this law is implemented, and this sometimes leads to counterfeit data being provided by business entities. Well, that's my question. How is a standard of 4 percent actually implemented in companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u24	Thank you. As I said, in accordance with article 19 of the law that you said about the basics of social protection for people with disabilities, we have a standard of 4 percent creating new jobs and employment for people with disabilities. In enterprises where it is not executed, the Social Insurance Fund for Persons with Disabilities applies fines in accordance with article 20 of this Law. Yes, there is some problem that needs to be addressed, because this fund is officially not a fiscal body and today it is working more on, let's say, the awareness of corporate managers who, by default, are counting the costs to the Social Insurance Fund. Last year there were about 130 million dollars, and I would like to point out that, at the expense of these funds, we have partially held 38 centres of social rehabilitation for disabled adults, as well as 129 centres of social rehabilitation for disabled children, 1,460 new jobs for disabled people, and other programmes are being funded that will today help strengthen the work of social organizations of disabled people and businesses where they are founding.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u25	Honourable National MPs invited to the plenary are participating in the Ukrainian Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u26	How do we address the issue of providing additional state guarantees for social rehabilitation and adaptation of children with disabilities, ensuring the quality of vocational training of children with disabilities for the purpose of their competitiveness in the labour market? This is a question for the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. In accordance with Ukraine’s legislation on social protection for disabled persons, benefits and compensation for disabled persons have the following forms. First or foremost right to enroll in higher educational institutions. In order to provide vocational training for persons with disabilities in higher education institutions, according to Ukrainian laws on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities in Ukraine and according to the orders of the Minister of Education and Science, there are a number of guarantees and benefits for persons with disabilities in obtaining higher education in public educational institutions, namely, the inclusion of persons with disabilities in the first and second groups in higher education institutions outside of the competition, the inclusion in higher education institutions of higher education of higher education than in public intercession, the creation of conditions for them to take an extracurricular education course, the inclusion in the competition of higher educational institutions of disabled persons affected by the Chernobyl disaster, etc. Special groups are also being set up in vocational and technical institutions to teach children with disabilities, taking into account the nature of the disease. There are now some 200 such groups. In the event that children with disabilities are invited to the State Employment Service for employment support, the Employment Service sends them to vocational training, which is funded by the Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities, which was questioned by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Udovenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u27	Justice Sergey Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u28	Thank you. Please give the floor to colleague Vadim Mikolayovich Gurov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u29	Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich! Vadim Gurov, 32th constituency, Krivbass. Well, first of all, everything looks big in small. I want to ask you, why do we have to do this when we're in poverty, and we're looking at the issue of disabled people, these are expensive tracts? You know, on the one hand, poverty, on the other hand, chic. I don't think we should do that. Now question two. So the painting you painted, of course, is not entirely optimistic. Everything is increasing: the number of persons with disabilities is increasing, the allocation of money is increasing and the fund is increasing. And I say, where are we going? In my view, we are working hard to combat the investigation. What do you, as a minister and your ministry, do to make people with disabilities less and more money? I have not heard the answer to this question, in my opinion. See what happens to children, schoolchildren: every person, every child is sick with scoliosis, someone is taken into the army. Children's sports must be given priority. We're implementing television, computerization, school performance, the load is increasing, hence the sedentary way of life. We need a sport.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u30	Vadim Mikolaiovich, questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u31	Sports and, above all, sports are not "stars", but sports are mass. And if we don't, of course we're going to increase one position every year and another. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear National Deputy, if you pay attention to the printing on the materials that have been distributed to the Ukrainian National Deputies, you will note that no amount of budget has been used to produce them. That's the first question. Question two. As I said, there are 129 early social rehabilitation centres in Ukraine today. We held a scientific and practical conference on this issue last week in Nicholas. You know, there's a few problems out there, and I think that's the first thing that's going to have to be solved by both the government and you, honourable national MPs. The thing is, none of these centers are funded by the budget, none of them! That is, we today do not have a single copy of the budget code to finance these centers. They are practically financed today by charity contributions as well as by the Social Protection Fund. And I'd like to ask, we're going to come up with a proposal, because this is such a big state thing, it should be at the heart of not only the government, but also the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I would still like to anticipate in the 2004 budget the funding of these centres so that we can introduce new methods of teaching children there. And I saw myself in Santa Claus: 200 children with disabilities who have been diagnosed in their own time, that they are not effective, who are now in high school. So today, paying attention to the early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities is going to have an impact, not on adults, but on these, as you said, on the extent of the increase in disability and somehow reduce and make them adaptable to society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u33	Please have a written question, Mikhail Mikolaiovich. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u34	A written question: how is the issue of ensuring the systematic recovery of children with disabilities, both in the summer and the current school year resolved? Dear National Deputies, the healing of children with disabilities are carried out by central and local executive authorities. Among the central executives, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, and the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and the State Committee on Family and Youth. According to operational data, as statistics will only be available in March, February, during the summer of 2002, more than 46,000 students from vocational and technical schools will be cured. Under the Ministry of Health, Ukraine has 21 children’s specialized sanatoriums for 6,780 beds and three teenage sanatoriums for 450 beds. The number of children in sanatoriums is constantly increasing due to the more rational use of the bed fund. In addition, 131 sanatoriums of local subordination function year - round in Ukraine. During the year, about 130,000 children are treated. During 2002, 3,01354 children suffered from the Chernobyl disaster were treated in a sanatorium. As for the rehabilitation of orphans and children with disabilities who, according to medical evidence, needed sanatorium treatment, I'll tell you, it was carried out 100%. Healing was mainly done during the summer period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u35	Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u36	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich, I have two questions for you. Question number one, let's go back to the four percent that we're talking about, is this a tax, or is this really the need that people with disabilities need today to create jobs? If it's a tax, please tell me, why can't people with disabilities feel it right below? That's who works in UTOS, UTOGA and so on, if it's job creation, then let's take a more substantive approach to this issue: the steel industry, the mining industry, the heavy working conditions. We can't get that many people with disabilities! Let us, in the end, be clear and clear about what we want from these four per cent. That's the first one. Secondly, we are well aware of the fact that organizations such as UTOG and UTOS cannot be competitive in the market and cannot attract investment. What is being done today to at least reflect on the prospect of a coup? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the thing is that Ukraine is not, let's say, the first step in this matter. The four percent set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities correspond to the European Social Charter. And we have the same percentages in Austria even at 6, in Poland at 6 percent, in Germany at 4 percent for the job creation of disabled people. As you recall, we set this standard 4 percent, right? Then we took the heavy weight of the disabled to the number of workers. During that period, the number of people with disabilities was 4 percent. As you've seen today, the number of diagrams is now 6 percent. So let's keep this contribution, this is 4 percent. And at the same time, you were talking about metallurgical industries. And let's see what industries are giving us today are the disabled, which sectors are today the providers of the disabled. It turns out that the metal industry is 12,000 disabled, the miners are 168 thousand disabled, and the miners are 169 thousand disabled. That is, if the suppliers of the disabled are those sectors, they cannot be put on the shoulders of the nations today. We need to work with you today to create jobs for these people with disabilities, and it's at the expense of this 4 percent contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u38	Please have a written question. Michael Mikolaiovich, written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u39	How is the increase in material assistance addressed to families with disabilities? Respectable national MPs, material assistance to families with disabled children, are being implemented through a series of laws. This is also the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families With Children, under which a number of aids are assigned. Assistance in connection with pregnancy and childbirth of 25 percent of the living minimum for a working person per month, namely, 91 bracelets, length of leave 126, 140 or 180 calendar days, one-time care in the birth of a 200 - year - old child, care in the care of a child until he reaches the age of three, 40 bracelets per child per month until he reaches the age of three and other species. This assistance is assigned irrespective of the material condition of the family. According to the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Disabled Families, during 2002, they received State support from an average family of up to 69 dollars a month. The maximum level of assistance for these categories of families reached 350 dollars. and Taking into account the 2003 budget spending opportunities, the minimum subsistence allowance is set for the assignment of state social assistance to disabled persons from their childhood and children with disabilities in the amount of 90 bracelets. The funding of the aid is made at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine in the form of subsidies to local budgets. Subsidies and benefits are also provided for housing services, scrapped gas and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u40	Nightshade Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u41	Dear Mikhailovich, if you estimate the number of references to disability issues, you can conclude by working in the districts that there is a tendency to reduce them. That's my plan. There are public guarantees of social protection for the population, such as sanatorium and smoking, and prosthetic insurance through the provision of car transport. We know that your sanitariums, the five of them, cannot provide for everyone, and great queues are being created. So a compensation is made once every two years of 40-50 dollars while travel costs 900 dollars. Injustice. The turn on the car is 174 thousand, well, about 170,000. Some disabled people know that they will not be able to wait. The question is: how do you see whether there is debt to the disabled, how do you think to pay it off and solve problems of transportation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u42	Thank you. I wanted to stress the following. First. It's not 40 bucks, it's 140 bucks once every two years. The second question. Yeah, we owed 10 million 800,000 dollars in health care in 2002. And first of all, I've already told you, the reason is that. That the State Budget 2002 did not protect these articles. The 2003 budget, for the first time, provides for repayment of arrears last year, and these articles have become protected. And in January-February, they're 100 percent funded. With regard to the provision of motor vehicles, we now have 156 thousand people with disabilities and citizens who are entitled to a car. In order to provide them with specialized cars, which we have a car factory called DAEWOO, it takes 2.2 billion dollars. The 2003 budget provides 33 million. 33 million, you know, if we move it in a car, we're going to have 2,000 cars. I think we need to meet with veteran organizations today, social organizations and honestly look them in the eye, explain the situation we're in, and find a way out. It's either going to be a way out or they're going to determine people's priorities for getting specialized cars, or there's another option. So let's assume then that in the 2004 budget, the corresponding funds that we have are going to have 156 thousand people with disabilities in line are 2 billion 200 million dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u43	Please have a written question, Michael Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u44	It's a written question. Whether there is an increase in funding for the construction of new and capital repairs to existing residential facilities for disabled persons. In accordance with article 52 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003, expenditure on state capital investments is set at 175 million dollars and provision to local budgets for investment projects worth 225 million dollars. This sums up 400 million dollars. With regard to the capital repair of existing residential facilities, given that they are part of the district municipal property and its expenditure, according to the Ukrainian Code of Budgets, we hope that there will be an increase in the volume of local budgets and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea budget, and we will also be able to make actual repairs to these buildings in 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u45	Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u46	Vitaly Šibko, Socialist Party of Ukraine. Mikhail Nikolayevich, well, here's how you got by in your report, how government agencies interact with social organizations of persons with disabilities. Although, in fact, there is some material in this brochure. But this is the material of the overall plan. For now, it's just intention. I have a specific question for you. Imagine there is a group of parents in the Yellow Waters who have decided to raise their own children with disabilities. Of course, no one can help them in this regard. The city's power can't-- it doesn't have money. They tried to remove some room. Of course, the room has to be monitored, invested, there's an accident, so far it's not heating up, and so on. In your view, who can these people turn to for help if they choose to do so with their own strength?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u47	Dear National Deputies! There is a problem. I think it's a problem for the government, and it's a problem of legislation. Today, there are social organizations of people with disabilities in Ukraine. Some social organizations join the Assembly of Disabled Persons, others act on their own, and they have 900 representations of these social organizations in the regions, that is, in the areas of Ukraine, in the villages, in separate cities. This is a common issue among local governments, local executives, and public organizations. The main question, I think, is that the state pays families with children with disabilities in due time, provided for by valid legislation, aided and subsidized families. We also have alternative measures. I've already pointed out that we had a charity campaign last year, which brought together about 140 million dollars of charity contributions from businesses and organizations, and, first of all, when we were helping about 2 million Ukrainian citizens, we were paying attention to the families that are now living and raising children with disabilities. And we also have 129 centers here that I've talked about, early social rehabilitation centers for children with disabilities, where they are free of charge in rehabilitating and preparing to adapt to everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u48	Please have a written question, Mikhail Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u49	A written question from those who have submitted. "In recent years the number of children with disabilities has increased to over 150,000. In this regard, children with special needs of knowledge, skills, and assistance in the field of universal rehabilitation and social integration are urgently asked to do so today. A lot of the role in this is given to educational institutions, they have to play an important role in this process, they have to help each of these children realize themselves as an individual, find a way to the future, to avoid further life problems." Dear National Deputies, yes, today there are 435 institutions in the Ministry of Education and Science, special public education institutions, and 36 boarding schools where children with special needs are taught, that is, with physical and mental disabilities, and children with disabilities by sight and deaf or children with disabilities with resistance problems. The government has approved programs for the training of children with disabilities in these schools, as well as the orders of the Ministry of Education and Science have confirmed the conformity of the programmes on which children are taught, the teacher-defectologists, and we also have the manuals of Braille. Last year, four of these textbooks were produced, this year they'll be 11, which will give us the ability of children, blind eyesight, and blind children to teach in public schools. Also, as I said before, in higher education institutions, we now have benefits for entering them, as well as for teaching children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u50	Hunger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u51	There are also institutions in our system of work and social protection for the population where about 8,000 children with disabilities are being held today, which are also subject to social and health rehabilitation programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u52	Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u53	Michael Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! We all know that cerebral palsy is a terrible disease and a disease, primarily our children. Usually, after such a disease, the child becomes disabled and the adult becomes disabled. This disease is difficult to treat, but there are people from a god who not only try to do it but also treat children. This is the first known doctor, professor, director of the Institute of Rehabilitation, the Hero of Ukraine Kozjavkin Volodymyr Illich. He treats children not only in Ukraine but also in many parts of the world. As far as I know, this year he's finishing up the rehabilitation and healing center of one of the best in Europe, or maybe the world, I'm not wrong. So, do you have a question, Mikhail Mikolaiovich, which is involved in this construction, do you even know about this construction, does your ministry? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is the Ministry, which today, according to budgetary assignments, finances those programmes that are established in accordance with the Budget Code. Yet, given that we now have the Social Protection Fund, it is this fund that funds programs for the creation and construction of centres. All 129 early rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities, including those held today and rehabilitated children with cerebral palsy, have been created today without any government funds and are maintained today by the Social Protection Fund, as well as according to local budgets. I'm going to help with your questions, yes, and I'm going to give appropriate instructions to the Ministry staff so that we can pay particular attention to the facility you're talking about and to the specialist whose experience today needs to be studied and implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u55	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u56	What are the measures planned by the government to improve the provision of children with disabilities with social means of rehabilitation -- prosthetics, wheelchairs, hearing aids, Braille books, etc.? Under the direction of the government, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, together with the Ministry of Health and other central executive authorities, has prepared a programme for further child orthopaedia aimed at improving the rehabilitation of children with limited health facilities, including faults in the propulsion system. In the first half of this year, there is the establishment of a children's orthopaedic and rehabilitation centre, i.e. it is a structural unit of the state complex of early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities in the city of Mikolayev. In order to meet the needs of children with disabilities in hearing aids and visual correction devices, the Ministry of Health has developed an order to provide children with hearing aids and visual correction. Under the conditions of full funding this year, as I said, the Ministry of Education and Science is planning a children's graduation in violation of the 11th grade of Braille textbooks. To date, we have the possibility of 100 percent providing children with wheelchairs. Now, prosthetic work is aimed at improving existing wheelchairs and developing new ones. That's what we do in Lviv, Zaporozhye, you know, the Spark Company. And these carts, they meet all international standards today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u57	Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u58	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Mikhail Nikolaevich, I have a question: well, the level of preparation for today's meeting, I think is a little low, and here's what gives me reason for that. There is an official submission of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is quite clear what you've been preparing. So here's what I'm going to read out here: "With expenditure from social insurance funds and the Ukrainian pension fund, the amount of social protection expenditure for disabled persons on operational data was 5 trillion 616 billion dollars." He's following the Prime Minister's signature. I understand what you've been up to, and the Prime Minister shouldn't check on you. But answer my question: you will know. is it just an arithmetic error or is it a political step because these numbers are all on the Internet? I'm giving you your application. The same thing with 2 million 660 you're showing in thousands. That's the first question. Please comment. And secondly, why did you take 1999 as a reference? We celebrated the decade of our independence. Why haven't you done the dynamics of disability, disability since 1991. According to television, the number of persons with disabilities has doubled, 1.3 million, and 2.6, respectively, according to your data. Is that your political step or is that purely arithmetic?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. The point is that, as you know, today the government is listening to a question that concerns people with disabilities, in which absolutely politics cannot exist. The attitude toward the disabled today should be without regard for the one to whom the political power relates. That is how we prepared documents that were handed out to the Ukrainian national deputies. The government was responsible for the preparation of the documents. They're in your files today. This is a state report on the situation of the disabled in Ukraine, and there is also a distribution material as well as the rights of the disabled. As for the numbers, you said 5 trillion, right? That can't be because it's 5 billion. There might be some kind of seal or something. It's more likely that it's a print, and believe me, I think that a person who knows what a trillion is, he takes it as a billion when he reads that figure. Socially protected people with disabilities. Many things are being done by the government today. We said you said 2 million 660. To be exact, it's 2 million 659 thousand people with disabilities today. We are consciously showing this figure, and today, the government is consciously saying that it is a problem. It's a problem of society, it's a problem of government, it's a problem of all branches of government. And it's our creation of rehabilitation centres for disabled children, early rehabilitation centres for disabled children, that will allow us to influence this figure in the near future, and you'll see that in the coming years it will have a downward trend. The main question that we see today is not the struggle for statistics, how many people with disabilities we have, but today the creation of real jobs so that the person with disabilities gets it today. Today, we are facing a challenge: job reform. So the person who has the disability of the first and second groups doesn't have the right to have a conviction that it's not working. So today she has the same right as all disabled people, to have employment rights with the preservation of pension payments. These are the questions that the government is asking itself today and that it is actually dealing with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u60	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u61	The implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in the Field of Adaptation to the Construction of Human Settlements, Public Transport, Communications and Liaison to the Needs of Persons with Disabilities? Respectable people’s deputies, state building standards called construction, planning, and construction of urban and rural settlements, have determined the need to set up paths for walking wheelchairs in the main directions of the movement of persons with disabilities within the boundaries of the relevant health, social security, trade, sports, physical culture, and so forth. And according to these standards, there's appropriate special cross equipment -- these are pandas, they're sound lights. And the document also defines the width of these walkways and sidewalks that provide for others. However, as I said in the report, it is now known that local executives and self - government, businesses and organizations and institutions are doing this too slowly. That is why, when the meeting of the Prime Minister of Ukraine with the public organizations of persons with disabilities took place in February 8, this year, in the Centre for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, there was an emphasis on this problem and a decision was made to request and give the mandate of the State State Secretary to include a representative from the public organization of persons with disabilities in each commission of State Architecture and Construction. That is, so that at the surrender of an object, a representative of the organization would be able to control the introduction of issues of integrity, integrity. This needs to be done, not only during the delivery of the object, but from the customer to the design, leading to the surrender of the object. That is why the relevant ministries and offices will also include representatives of public organizations, which they have agreed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u62	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u63	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich! One line on my colleague Gurov's speech, then a question. You know, these tracts don't actually have publishing, and I'm supporting a colleague of Gurov's in that the Ministry needs to see that. That you're officially handing us out because you're handing out a cover in Ukrainian, in Russian in the middle. I think you know the Law on State Service and Languages in Ukraine and you sign this deal as a minister. That is why we need to pay attention. That's the question. You know, I remember during the election campaign how much noise there was, as Mr. Suškevitch's association signed a deal with "the only Ukraine" on how "the only Ukraine" would support both the government and the problems of the disabled to solve. Since "the only Ukraine" has fallen apart, and many people here in the government are present, so you've analyzed this agreement, how real is it to do what was promised by the bloc, because it was then in power, your government, or was this agreement between the disabled and the government so much more publicist than real?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u64	Thank you. In the documents given to you, there's the publication of the Rebirth Fund, and I'd like to highlight the following. There are documents of the International Labour Organization. The point is that all official documents of the International Labour Organization are conducted in five languages, including Russian, which is the official language. Thus, the documents were presented in the original language. The cover, you yourself said, in English and inside all the laws of Ukraine that are signed, which are adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this document are given in English. With regard to the social organizations of persons with disabilities, according to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens and the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of the Social Invulnerability of Persons with Disabilities, we now have many civil organizations of Ukraine that are able to sign agreements and that the State should not intervene in their activities. That is what the government insists on, and that is where it sees its activity. As far as cooperation is concerned, you know that during the February 8th meeting it was represented not only by the public organizations of the Assembly of Disabled Persons, but also by other public organizations, which also have some of these complex relationships. The main goal that we see before us is to work with the largest range of representatives of public organizations, because, as I said, there are 900 divisions in areas, cities, villages in Ukraine, and the government will base its work on cooperation with these social organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u65	Is there a written question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u66	There is a written question. I'm so sure not of those who are prepared, but of those who are given to me today directly in the hall. Questions. "Last times, enterprises of the social organizations of the disabled and the organizations themselves have been in a rather difficult situation, particularly in connection with the difficult economic situation that has taken place in the country. Setting up a market economy requires them to adapt to the harsh conditions of competition they produce with domestic and international standards, developed management and advertising their products. Old equipment, a product that does not always use demand, has great competition from other businesses. All of this does not allow such enterprises to exist on an equal footing, so the support of the state is essential, especially because they play a major role in social protection." I get it. I get it. It's just a question that's so big. Dear National Deputies! We have an appropriate decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to conduct tenders on a government-produced product made by UTOS, UTOG, the Union of Disability Organizations of Ukraine. You know, according to this ruling, it's decided that if the product is manufactured by these enterprises and it's in the form of a government order, then enterprises, they, the disabled enterprises, have the priority right to have it placed on their representations in the regions. If this is a product produced by other enterprises that does not belong to the exclusive production of disabled enterprises, a 15 - percent preference for this product is given in accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is now a call by the Blind Association of Ukraine to establish the right or obligation to place a government order in general for all the products produced by these enterprises. I think it's going to be a violation of antitrust legislation, and we, first and foremost, with the Social Protection Fund, need to work today to upgrade the production capacity of these enterprises, to run new technologies and to create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u67	Hinzburg Olga Petrovna Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u68	Honorable National MPs and a distinguished reporter. 161 constituency, Sumska District, Hinzburg. I want to ask you a question and say before that, here are my voters, among them are people with physical disabilities, as well as people with disabilities in the Great Homeland War, and for which we are conducting these hearings today, so that when they listen to us, they say, yes, the state is worried about us, they're hurting us. I've been asked that question, and I'm asking it to you. Please tell me, is there any control that is unsettled by the use of funds and other facilities that have a bearing on persons with disabilities? I'm asking a question. Almost two years ago, a pyramid was registered in the town of Šostka and Konotapi, which was called "Invasport", which robbed up to 100,000 people up to 40 million people and took money from these poor, miserable people. And I'm still looking at all the structures, and I can't figure out who gave birth to her. Thank you. Please answer specifically, not blurry, specifically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u69	Thank you. The funds, if you mean, we have social insurance funds, they are governed by the principles of tripartism -- representatives from the state, trade unions and employers, if you're referring to these funds. They have supervisory boards that constantly listen to reports of governments and governments that also act on the principles of tripartism, which now work on controlling the use of funds and approve budgets. We also have the Social Protection Fund. The Social Protection Fund for Persons with Disabilities is now a central executive body, a government body of central executive power.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u70	Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, that's not the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u71	To emphasize that all the funds used by these funds are controlled, and this year there will be 8 audits of the Audit Authority according to these funds. As for the creation of the organizations that you're talking about, if they're registered as all-U.S., yes, then they're properly controlled by government executive authorities. If they're registered in places, I think there's a problem here, too, that we need local executives and local self-government authorities to pay attention to it, and that we don't have a pyramid at all, especially with regard to disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u72	Is there a written question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u73	Yes, there are written questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u74	Last one, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u75	"How is funding for the social and household services of the disabled of the Great National War of Ukraine for 2002, taking into account its non-implementation. Dear National Deputies, social and household services for persons with disabilities are financed by the State Budget in the form of subsidies to local aid and subsidies, to pay for electricity, natural gas, solid fuel, heat and water and water supply services, to cover the difference in prices and tariffs paid for services and communications. In 2002, the State Budget was earmarked for this purpose 3 billion. Two hundred million. That's right. And it's funded by $2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. A bracelet that made up 88.9 The underfunding has to do with the failure to implement the income portion of the State budget, but I would like to stress the following. That is, there is no need for funding from the Grants and Aid Budget today to confuse them with specific individuals and communities, because today all citizens of Ukraine who have the right to cash-free subsidies and benefits are getting them because they pay only the difference. And the debt that exists is the debt not owed to citizens with disabilities, it's the debt owed to service providers. The 2003 budget provides for repayment of arrears from the corresponding expenditures of past periods and current payments of interest for 2003. I hope that January and February-month funding, funded by 100% of all social programs, gives us reason to hope that 2003 will become a year of people with disabilities and a year of social protection. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u76	Thank you, Mikhail Mikolaiovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. A word from the profile committee is given to the Secretary of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons by Valery Mikhajlovich Suškević. In five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Gennady Andriyovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, distinguished colleagues! From the beginning of my talk, I want to thank those who are present in the hall, the people's deputies, those who have come and are interested in the state of social protection for the disabled, that's the first. Thank you! Secondly, I am grateful to the Prime Minister of the new coalition government, who has been able to identify in the list of important issues of executive power as a priority for his participation today in a Parliament meeting that addresses the problems of Ukrainian citizens, which we call disabled. You and I have heard information from the government, announced by the new Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, which has been working for a little over two months, which today has had to endure the challenges of the country's disability situation. I realize how difficult it is for me to tell in a few minutes what I want to tell you about the realities, the positives, the negatives of practical security in our country, established by valid social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the area of social protection and the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. First of all, I want to talk about trends. The first, and perhaps most important, is the financing of social protection programmes for people with disabilities from all levels of budgets that have positive growth dynamics. For example, funding for a social protection fund, which resembles government funds, increased from 26 million in 1998 to 170 million in 2001, or 6.5 times, I take the fact. Not the plan, but the fact that it grew between 1998 and 2001. Secondly, I ask you to mention April 1999, the subject and substance of parliamentary hearings with kind of similar questions that we are discussing today. The main lesson was the issue of the State’s financial provision of the aid and the payment of the debt in respect of these payments. Today, we are talking about the provision of disabled people also with certain economic economic legal constitutional guarantees, that is, we, Parliament, government, care and determine what is the level of civilisation of society, human rights, which is limited in our physical capacity, and that is essential today. Thus, when it comes to the second trend, it must be acknowledged that the authorities are positively transforming social policy priorities in relation to persons with disabilities, from trivial social protection to the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. That's important because over the last 10 years, there's been an increase in the total number of axes with disabilities, and there's a sharp rise in the level of child disability. Since 1992, the number of children with disabilities has increased by 68 percent. This, in the long run, has unfortunately led to a change in the age structure of persons with limited abilities. Now the disability is getting younger. Today, 25 percent of people with disabilities are under the age of 40. And most of them no longer want to be held by the state, but by their unifications they loudly claim their civil rights. It must be said that our Parliament has actively participated in the organization of both of these trends. A number of legislative acts have been adopted to ensure that state policies are implemented in relation to persons with disabilities. Thus, in December 1998, at the initiative of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Parliament decided on measures to improve social protection for persons with disabilities. 2000 The Law on State Social Assistance for Children with Disabilities, Children with Disabilities. 2000 There was also a law on amending certain laws of Ukraine on taxation of enterprises and organizations, social organizations of persons with disabilities, which dealt with the issue of tax taxation of enterprises founded by social organizations of persons with disabilities, and a clear, transparent and non-discriminatory mechanism for granting benefits to the State. The law on support for the Olympic and the Paralympic movement is extremely important. He supported the paralympic movement in Ukraine. The changes made to the Supreme Council in July 2001 and additions to the Act on Fundamentals of Social Protection have significantly increased the amount of income to the Fund for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities. If the average income to the fund was around 50 million in 1997-1999, the number of potential payers has increased significantly since the introduction of the new employment standard, and there has been a significant increase in the volume of targeted incomes that are charged to the State budget accounts. Today, in the last year, there were more than 123 million dollars from the coming, and Parliament did so along with the government. As we can see, quite a lot has been done, but more needs to be done on the way of our nation to world social standards. However, the question is now how effective these efforts are in the State, which is a socio-economic, political, social impact on public investment in the area of social protection of persons with disabilities. I have deliberately used the term investment, quite unusual when it comes to social protection for people with disabilities, but I think it's really an investment. The state, by investing budgetary resources in rehabilitation and disability support programs, is giving a powerful impetus, creating the opportunity to really demonstrate the potential of people with disabilities, and in fact the state is investing in its civilization. Dear colleagues, here in the hall are representatives of the social movement of the disabled. I see that the second floor is completely filled with representatives of the social organizations of people with disabilities. I'm asking you to pay attention and let us work on this government report to the end. I think I'm surprised by many of the extraordinary things that have been said about the improvement of the status of the people with disabilities of our country. This is surprising at times, but believe me, there is an awareness of extremely difficult and painful problems, unresolved problems for people with disabilities. When I talked about the positive trend in funding the increase in expenditure on disability programs in recent years, I mentioned 2001 with a large amount of actual funding. I note that last year was the first year in five years when we stopped this positive trend, unfortunately. Dear colleagues, last year, only 57 percent of the annual budget was allocated to the State Budget General Fund, which was allocated to the Fund for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities. For the first time, we stopped most state-owned prosthetic enterprises because of what that funding was. We have again created a debt to the disabled by paying them compensation and social assistance. I'm paying attention to this because there's not enough of what we consciously did last year in relation to the disabled, and some of the government officials have tried to clone this negative in the 2003 budget. Yes, the planned expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget for the Social Protection Fund has been reduced for the first time in five years. And, dear colleagues, it's a shame, spending on physical culture and disability sports is down by a third compared to 2002. I'm ashamed of that. Next thing you know, about our social standards for people with disabilities. First. The real size of social benefits for disabled people is much smaller than the subsistence minimum. Well, we're almost used to it. Oh, that's different. Dear colleagues! Did you know that, together with the government, we set a social standard, which is a shame to talk about, both in Europe and the world, and we can only whisper in Ukraine, we set the living minimum for healthy people 365 dollars, and for disabled people as many as 267. And this is in all the troubles of the country's social protection of the disabled. in our health care for the disabled, in our social isolation for the disabled, and much more. This is an objective situation. You know, when I hear about joining NATO as a movement to Europe, and there's a lot of discussion about how much we need to do to join NATO, I want to scream at these things: "Make our people live the way we do in Europe. Help the disabled to secure their rights, as in Europe, and then we will come to Europe for real. And so far we have a discriminatory, non-civilized social standard for people with disabilities: 267." I mentioned the negative year 2002. Unfortunately, it was marked by another negative. Three times in the government, the past government, were attempts to eliminate benefits for businesses, social organizations of people with disabilities. That is, the situation of the elimination of hundreds of jobs for people with disabilities was provoked. And today I would like to stress the need to implement a very popular 22nd article of the Constitution in relation to the disabled. I'm talking to the government and the parliament. Try to ensure in legislative and regulatory acts that moratoriums on changes that make the social protection of persons with disabilities worse and the realization of their rights. I'm sorry, I've got two more minutes, I'm asking for a government day. Still, we don't often talk so much about disabled people. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u78	Do you mind, Your Honor? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u79	As we continue on the subject of legislation, we must say that there is a sad tradition of failure to comply with many of its valid standards in relation to persons with disabilities. In particular, failure to comply with the requirements of effective legislation regarding the provision of adequate medical care and medical care to disabled persons. It needs a substantial improvement in the reform of the activities of the medical-social expert commissions, which are entrusted with work to define and establish disability, and which have long forgotten the legislative norm, which is the individual rehabilitation program. A clear example of failure to comply with Ukraine’s legislation and an uncivilized attitude toward disabled people is the global barrier to the social and information environment. I don't want to talk about what was built and built in architecture, transportation years ago. But two examples, respected colleagues. The center of the capital. It's a stage of independence. There is no access to the ground memorial or to the underground palace of persons with disabilities. That's impossible. Another example. On the road. In a beautiful high-speed railway just created by Kiev-Harks, the doorway is two centimetres shorter than the standard cart. It's just done. I mean, for everyone, just not for the disabled. These are the 2 examples that characterize some of our moments. For three years we have been talking about a domestic trolleybus and a bus with unhindered access to disabled people. Nothing's done. I think there's a problem with the lack of a systematic approach. There is a stereotype: the problem of disabled people is the problem of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And today we've proven again that we've brought all the problems down to the same minister. And the problem of people with disabilities in transport, construction, education, health, sports, culture, and extremely important industries need proper accounting and administration of all ministries. This is what I wanted to bring to the attention of our government and especially the heads of the branch departments and departments here. Perhaps it is time for the organization in the executive branch of a special body of authority — the State Committee on Disability Issues — to not only unite the efforts of many of the institutions involved in the problems of persons with disabilities but also bear full responsibility for the state of affairs in this area. Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, given the rules, I can’t stop at all the problems I want to talk about. But speaking of major problems and problems, I want to express my optimism at the end of the day in the essence of those positive developments and, I dare say, even achievements in the formation and implementation of public policies in relation to people with disabilities. A clear example this year -- for the first time in five years, in January, the new government has funded 100 percent of the expenditure of the Social Protection Fund and 40 percent of the already heavily funded government. I think that the state in the President's person who has issued a number of social protection decrees over the past year and a half in Parliament, the government actually returns to the face of the disabled, to the understanding of their problems, is a good sign. The European Year of Disability is still a testimony to our progress towards the path, to the building of a society in which a disabled person will actually feel like a full citizen, socially protected in his rights, and will have sufficient capacity for his creative self-realization guaranteed by the State. Thank you. I'm sorry I'm out of line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u80	Shershun Mikola Haritonovich, please the next Rahansky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u81	Mikola Shershun, Ravenshing, faction of Ukraine's Agrarian Party. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, invited. Perhaps the power of the state is measured not only by the size of an army or a wallet but, above all, by its ability to support those citizens who need it for some reason. Unfortunately, very little has been done in this direction in Ukraine. For example, there are an official number of nearly 65,000 disabled people in the Plains, and only about 7,000 of them are employed. The reason for the first and foremost is the imperfection of Ukraine's laws on the basis of social protection for disabled people in Ukraine. Today, there is no need for business leaders or organizations of financial interest to take on the work of persons with disabilities. In addition, in Ukraine today, there is no legal obligation to work for people with disabilities. There's no point in the law on mandatory state unemployment insurance. And that's why in the employment service today, they don't employ people with disabilities, they don't do personal accounting, they don't track specific vacancies. Last year, nonmarket employment services were said to have helped to find jobs for only six dozen people with disabilities. And you talk to people with disabilities and you realize that they don't want to feel compassion from the state and from the country, they want to be able to communicate on an equal footing, and I think they can only do that through full participation in the labour community. Freed funds can also be used to support the most affected category of disabled children. These people today receive a meager social pension of 60-70 dollars. In the Plains alone, more than 10,000 and a half of them are children. The Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense is practically not in force, and it provides for the priority of enterprises, public organizations of disabled people to obtain appropriate procurement policies. In the country, the problems mentioned are added to the omissions in the Codex earth. There is no property right to the land of the disabled enterprises mentioned, no land tax benefits, and so on. Last week, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic, in an interview on television, raised the issue of increasing Kabmin's attention to the problems of the disabled. However, without creating an effective legislative field, it will not be possible to solve them, so I propose that we provide legislative compensation and benefits for employers who accept disabled people above the norm and increase the amount of financial loans to create jobs for disabled people. To approve the creation of disability employment units in the employment services and to foresee the release of disabled enterprises from land rent. Make sure that these companies are provided with appropriate state-of-the-art supplies. To the minimum of living, increase the minimum social pension. Develop a mechanism to bridge the deficits by the Social Protection Fund on the basis of deposit payments of temporarily available funds and expand the list of measures financed at the expense of fines, with a view to strengthening the material and technical base Home institutions and community centres that care for people with disabilities. I did not raise the problems of providing disabled persons with cars, wheelchairs, hearing aids today, as the electorate demanded, but I tried to raise the problems that the social adaptation of disabled people in society as a whole could bring. Wisdom teaches that a person with disabilities does not view himself when he does not get up. And then when the entourages start to think of it. Remember this! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u82	Rachansky Anatoly Bartholomewovich. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear Gennady Andriyovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, distinguished colleagues, is now considering an extremely important issue. The year 2003 is known in Europe, where more than 100 million people live. disabled persons recognized as disabled persons for a year. It was about their social protection that was at the January session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In my speech, I supported the Assembly's recommendation on the allocation of goods confiscated by customs, which our customs have accumulated for tens of millions of dollars a year, on the reduction of tariffs for persons with disabilities for utilities, on the State support of specialised enterprises, where disabled persons are increasing their subsistence minimum. He also invited the deputies of the national parliaments of Germany and Austria to study the possibility of providing pensions to our fellow countrymen — former prison inmates of concentration camps. And we only have 14,000 left. A man. Therefore, I propose that the Assembly of the Council of Europe be taken into account when working on our decision. Like many people, I am concerned that there are 2 million disabled people in our country. 660 thousand. Man, we remember everything better before the holidays. If Europe is getting older at the expense of the elderly, in our country, disability is getting worse. Ten grand. We have 160 children with disabilities. Comrades, this is genetically dangerous for the state in the future, and their treatment is not yet at the proper level. At the same time, our sanatoriums with the world's best natural conditions, excellent medical personnel, are mostly only active in the summer. So the head of the children's clinic of the Ministry of Defence at the Eupatoria resort, where more than 10,000 complex operations have been conducted recently or specialized sanatoriums for spinach disabled people, who are now also here at Saki and Slaviansk resorts, where patients are being picked up from stretchers and wheelchairs, are only used for 60-65 percent of the year, and this is because more than 30,000 people in the state of the dormitory disabled. Therefore, I propose that the Government of Ukraine take into strict control the implementation of valid laws and social protection programmes for persons with disabilities of all categories, where the issue of the protection of persons with disabilities is clearly defined but not carried out by the executive authorities. We're looking for reasons why we can't do them. To raise the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Social Insurance Fund, to release people with disabilities from payment of VAT for travel, to recommend to the boards at all levels to discuss the issue of strengthening social protection for persons with disabilities, to hear the Government of Ukraine implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue in February 2004. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u84	Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch, next Demjehochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u85	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The system of social protection for persons with disabilities has been damaged and is not critical because the income of persons with disabilities is lower than the subsistence minimum, and the system of defined benefits does not compensate for all costs caused by physical illness. All efforts to reform the social protection system are aimed, not at making it more effective, but at saving the budget sector. The approach must be one: all public costs of benefits must be redistributed exclusively for these people. If the State cannot provide a viable minimum for the poor, then the State must establish a mechanism to encourage the private sector of the economy to provide direct financial support to such persons. It is especially difficult for young people with disabilities today. They stand at a crossroads and fill the ranks of beggars without a solution. The access of persons with disabilities to social infrastructure is provided for by law, but these provisions of the law are far from being implemented. Over the years, so-called democracy has changed a lot with regard to persons with disabilities. Just don't think it's the best way. Although festivals are supposed to be held for them, exhibitions of the creativity of persons with disabilities are being held, radio and television are supposed to be about the good life of a disabled person, about his social security. But this happens once a year, on the day of the International Day of Disabled Persons. The disabled themselves say that the Soviet Union was better, there were pensions, benefits, free treatment, transportation. Now they are forgotten, as they say, both God and men. They survive as long as anyone can. You all know that today many people with disabilities suffer from bone tuberculosis, which is a serious infectious disease, especially when the form is open. During the Soviet era, a great deal of attention was paid to this category of patients. All regional anti-tuberculosis dispensers had bone tuberculosis units with their network of hospitals and sanatoriums that had successfully treated and cured. Unfortunately, however, only a fraction of the existing network of free specialized health facilities for persons with disabilities remains. As a result, the tuberculosis situation has become catastrophic in recent years and may even become out of control, since the open form of tuberculosis is a serious threat to healthy people and especially children. And despite the decree and decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, the situation with the treatment and rehabilitation of the disabled, not to mention housing conditions, is not improving. The system of social protection for persons with disabilities should be a chain of interrelated programmes with relevant structures from the rehabilitation of children with disabilities to adaptation. But labour rehabilitation centres without a scientifically sound approach and sufficient sustained financial support are doomed to bankruptcy. In the current circumstances, a disabled person must create a job and walk with his hand out. Yeah, to be honest, there's nowhere to go. In short, this category of people is completely forgotten by the State and abandoned to death and self-sustainment. Therefore, on behalf of the people with disabilities of Kirovogradina, I ask the Cabinet of Ministers to examine the situation in this area, to return to the sick sanatorium of Pechera, the town of Vinnica, and Solnečna, the city of Odessa, because they are already subjected to the pharynx of merchants, to ensure full free treatment and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities, to provide the necessary food in hospitals and sanatoriums, to provide the sick with a free tour of the railway and to provide the disabled with the first-second group of pensions according to the subsistence minimum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u86	Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich, next to Proscuratov. Ladies and gentlemen, please follow the rules. This applies to all the speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u87	Dear Gennadi Andreevich, distinguished members of the Government, distinguished people's deputies, are invited. Demehin, 184th District, People's Landing MPs. Allow me to begin by wishing that, at least this year, the year proclaimed by the Council of Europe as a year of people with disabilities, at least part of the planned activities, whose main objective is to promote the rehabilitation, integration and equal opportunities of persons with disabilities. To date, the main activities of public authorities in the field of social welfare of persons with disabilities can be assessed as unsatisfactory. All actions aimed at improving the situation in this sector are assessed by persons with disabilities only as minimally necessary to prevent a social catastrophe. Most people with limited physical capacity have characterized the last decade as survival. Indeed, the situation could otherwise be characterized if the average monthly pension fell by 8 times compared to the 80th year, while the utility and food costs increased by 3-5 times. The level of abundance of persons with disabilities is often less than the real subsistence minimum. For example, the number of persons in the Herson region alone as of 1 January this year was 2,794, including persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War, 845. When they're waiting for the car, well, maybe some of them never. All the time allocated to my statement can be devoted only to listing existing shortcomings and problems. Continued treatment by the electorates of my district from the Herson Disability Social Protection Fund from the Blind Ukrainian Society shows that a number of problems need to be addressed urgently to improve the social protection of persons with disabilities and their families. I would like to point out that it is only for such a small Herson region that almost 53,000 persons with disabilities are included in the labour and social protection systems, of which 7,000 are persons with disabilities of the first group. Why are all Ukrainian legislation relating to the social protection of persons with disabilities not systematic? Consider, for example, article 19 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. On the one hand, the problem is simple. If every 25 persons working in an enterprise where one disabled person is employed with a salary of 185 grevens have to pay off the average annual salary, the head of the enterprise, practice shows that the underrepresentation of the fund under this article often reaches a figure of millions. And more. I would like to draw attention to the failure to comply with article 26 of the law. Why architectural structures, vehicles and equipment in our cities do not meet the standards and standards that allow people with limited physical capacity to move without hindrance. In conclusion, I would like to make a number of proposals on my part and from our parliamentary group. We believe that the Cabinet of Ministers must take steps to ensure that all the regulations in our country relating to the employment of persons with disabilities are systematized. This can now be done in the design and approval phase of Government action programmes, economic and social development programmes, to develop provisions and amendments that will help to provide free vocational and technical education to young people with disabilities. In conclusion, he would like to quote, as a result, the United Nations document “Standard Rules for the Equalization of Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities”, which states: “States cannot, do not have the right to leave their people with irreparable health loss alone with their problems. It is their duty to protect the disabled.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u88	The proscurated Tamara Sergiyevna. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u89	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine believes that the problem of disability is of national importance and needs a first-line solution. [[united]] But I want to stop at the problem of child disability, because according to the state statistics, child disability, even in the face of a drop in birth rates, has a steady trend towards growth. The existing system of keeping children with disabilities in institutions only provides for the needs of four parts of such children, and the separation of children from the family, the normal environment, increases psychological pressure on the child. So we think that the above approach requires the development of a more progressive system of social rehabilitation for children with disabilities. Article 23 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child recognizes the right of a disabled child to live a full life in conditions that ensure his or her dignity, as well as the right to special care, access to education, rehabilitation of health. These positions have been reflected in Ukrainian legislation, such as the National Program "Children of Ukraine", although a separate law on the rehabilitation of children with disabilities is needed to determine the legal relationship of participants in the process of rehabilitating children of the above-mentioned category and on the basis of which changes to the Budget Code have been made. At a scientific and practical conference held in the Mikolai district at the State Centre for Early Social Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities, I was able to say that the rehabilitation of such deprived children is as close as possible to the place of residence of the child without separation from the family with the involvement of the parents who are also their rehabilitators, their presence today is the social support of the family. I believe that only a systematic approach to early rehabilitation of children with disabilities will ensure that they are able to implement the opportunities guaranteed to every citizen of the Constitution of Ukraine. The development of early social rehabilitation centers is therefore economically sound. The goal of these centres is to gradually integrate children with disabilities into children's, preschools and public or special schools and to integrate early social integration into society. So the early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities should, in our view, be a system of public action. This requires, above all, the cooperation of all the authorities involved in this problem. For example, the Ministry of Education has been preparing training for rehabilitating psychologists who could in turn prepare parents who would be able to help rehabilitate their babies. In our view, Ukraine needs to integrate itself into the world system of rehabilitation, using the available scientific and technological potential and practical experience to ensure that all persons with disabilities have the right to life according to their capabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u90	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u91	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Lord Chairman! Fellow citizens, members of government, journalists, those who took the time to familiarize themselves with the state of security in Ukraine established by the current legislation of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection and rehabilitation of people with limited physical capacity! That is how the entire civilized world has long been called those who for some reason cannot take advantage of all the opportunities that are available to us with you. And I would ask you not to use the disgraceful term of Soviet times as a disabled person. You all know that the European Commission declared 2003 a European year of people with very limited physical capacity to draw attention to the right of persons with disabilities to their full participation in all spheres of life. I can't help but show you that she drew a child with no hands and no legs. This painting is painted, it's given to me a few days ago, and it says, "Oh, come on. For Yuri's sake. Vatan Lena." This child, without his hands, writes without his feet, paints, and does so not because of the authority but because of the authority. It's all in the Odessa Regional Charity Fund for the Rehabilitation of Children with Disabilities, which is being taken care of by Boris Litwak. It's all in the center where they fight to get people with cerebral palsy, children, to live and recover, and in these children, the mayor takes the house by the sea to make it work again. I'd like to draw the government's attention to what happens to war invalid Kursonis without a leg: give me a piece of land. There isn't! Because they gave the land to whom? The land was given to all the rulers and to all those who had money. That's what's going on in Odessa. I'd like to say that we don't have to talk about disability benefits, how to create a level playing field for access to work, education, leisure. Note the entry into the bed in the session room, and to whom is the deputy for the second call, Suškević, try to get into her wheelchair without any help? And this is just for Gruszewski, 5 from the yard. Can the disabled come to us on Gruszewski, 18/2, on Sadowa, 3, on Bankow 5.7? Take the entrance to the President's House of Banks, the Cabinet of Ministers in Sadowy, and take the violation of the citizens' constitutional rights to join the public service. Publications on vacancies in violations of the Ukrainian State Service Act refuse to do so by the head of the Supreme Council of Zaichuk, State Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Yatsuba. Or could it be that the disabled could benefit from it? So I propose, for three months, that all institutions of government of local self-government or those funded by government budgets or local self-government budgets should be provided with conditions for people with limited physical capacity to access them. The other one. The State Service Act will immediately launch competitions for civil servants in 3-7 categories and mandatory media publications on the positions of civil servants for persons with disabilities. Keep going. I would like, like in Germany, an enterprise that employs more than 30 percent of the people with disabilities, not to pay any taxes at all, but to do more at the expense of the municipal budget. More than that, according to the experience of most countries, businesses with at least 50 percent of the workers do not pay taxes, but they do not receive tax benefits in the implementation of excise goods and the gaming business. We need to approach a civilized experience, but, dear friends, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are producing disabled people. And that's what I want to pay attention to! I drew the minister's attention to the fact that the former government, Minister Jusko, had been reduced by 55 million. Funding measures to combat tuberculosis, these are disabled people, for cancer patients with 55 million people. Reduced by 20 million. Sanatorium-storage rehabilitation for the disabled. What do we want to do, just destroy the disabled?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u92	Please tell me, how much time do you need? How much time, tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u93	I'm done, half a minute. So I want us to be optimistic with you, and I believe we can force officials to obey the law. And I'd like to ask you to consider the changes and consider them urgent and to add to the laws on social protection of people with disabilities and the activities of taxation of enterprises and organizations, social organizations of people with disabilities coming out of today's Government Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u94	Please tell me how to force you to comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u95	May the Lord watch over you and us!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u96	Turn off the microphone. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess. Each of you has the opportunity to view the exhibition on the third floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u97	We continue to work, we continue to discuss matters of order. The word is given to Mihowich Ivanovich. Next Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u98	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear colleagues, members of the government, voters! It is difficult to find words that, at least in part, convey the scale, depth, and tragedy of the problem under consideration. As a result, pseudoreoform has 10 times worsened the standard of living, and it has become a hundred times more difficult for people with disabilities. The materials provided do not reflect their actual position. Formally, everything is, and in real life, it's completely different. It is not enough that people with limited capacity have a complex life - style and that the state treats them as do herds. I'm judging by our region: in 50,000 people with disabilities, the average pension size for social benefits is only 118, and in 10,000 children with disabilities from childhood is half. Not more than 10 percent work. Thousands of them are unable to do dental work, to obtain glasses, hearing aids, and other essentials. Today they can't even eat human food, they write to the leaders of eight district public organizations, and they ask Mr. Kirp's transport minister to leave at least the railway station in Uzhgorod, where they are accepted without a fight. Isn't it okay that there's still no early rehabilitation center for disabled children in the area? What should we do? First of all, there is a need for a more objective assessment of the situation, causes, and trends of disability in Ukraine. Let's face it, do we only have 2.7 million people with limited capabilities? If they're about 10 percent in developed countries and less in a sick Ukrainian society. So it's on Zacarpatta, covered in all kinds of evils, environmental, social, political, whatever. Thus, the disability criteria and the composition of the respective committees and the practical work of the relevant bodies need to be changed. Second, we need to make creative use of historical traditions and national experience, especially in the Soviet era. Thirdly, really, with sufficient care, we are obliged to surround first, first of all, the disabled of war, from childhood, over 80 years of age. We Communists suggest that we start a step-by-step increase in pensions to the minimum of living, just from the disabled of war, because there are only 200,000 of them left. It is our work of honor and duty. In general, a new system approach is needed to develop legal principles, social policies, institutions, and organizations, standards, and criteria. Needful changes in the information, humanitarian spheres are capable of contributing to the medical, physical, socio-psychological rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. This includes the legalization of social work as a science, educational direction, and professional activity of a new type. I would like to support the decision on this issue, prepared by a professional committee with appropriate work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u99	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Next up, Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u100	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! It's important. First of all, we must recognize in Ukraine today under the terms of freedom and market reform over the past 12 years the fundamentals of solving acute social problems, the formation of a new class of poverty. And among these are the specific, most vulnerable sections of the population, the disabled of different categories. Up to 2.7 million people, war veterans and more than 12 million people, Chernobyl 3.5 million. And by the way, until 1991, we had many laws that we didn't have in Ukraine, but there was politics, there were specific issues, and there was a solution to these specific issues that have been put to the test today by modern politics in Ukraine. Addressing the problems of this category of citizens today, when economic developments, financial and monetary lending, indicate that the crisis in all spheres of life, with each passing year, gets worse and deeper every day, with such policies and powers impossible. And that's what we need to tell our disabled people. It should also be borne in mind that the absence of jobs, the search for employment of 7.5 million Ukrainian citizens, will further exacerbate social tensions. We must also take into account that under President Kuchma's patronage, all the temporary governments of Ukraine have a total and wide-ranging attack on the rights of the most vulnerable population, including the disabled. This, in effect, confirms the official policy of destroying this category of citizens that is being implemented in Ukraine. Everyone remembers the famous articles in the Laws on the State Budget of Ukraine 2001, 2002 and this year. It is in these articles that people with disabilities, pensioners, and bedbugs are cynically viewed as unproductive consumers of the budget. What are you representatives of the government talking about today? In addition, without taking into account the real income of citizens, including people with disabilities, without controlling the price of food products, there is a constant development of cost mechanisms for residential services, electricity, heating to self-sustainment. As we can see, your esteemed colleagues are peeling the last scroll with their skin. To this end, the Communist faction proposes that the following issues be addressed first. First, the State guarantee of the right of a disabled person to receive education free of charge and compulsory employment; and the establishment of a minimum pension. The creation of conditions is primarily the financing of the state and the operation of vocational training centres for the health and social rehabilitation of children with disabilities, the state support of the families in which they are raised. Funding for free medical care and the provision of medicines for people with disabilities. Next, it is not only a barrier - free environment for disabled people but, first of all, it must be said that they can provide housing and their own cars. This program is completely destroyed in our country. The first-line rise in social assistance or pensions for children with disabilities, women with disabilities, people with mental disabilities are the most vulnerable categories of citizens, and they need to be addressed. We also consider it necessary for a faction of communists to propose: to ensure, in full terms, the financing of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Children with Disabilities and Disabled Persons from Childhood, and those who fail to comply with this standard, as violators of the law, as in every legal state, to bring criminal responsibility to bear; to introduce mandatory social procurement practices for persons with disabilities; and to involve all legislative and regulatory acts that deal with disability problems, such as disability organizations. Then we're going to have the content of the laws just like the requirements of that category of citizens for whom they're designed, not for those under the terms of fund-building protection, which, by the way, the minister couldn't answer what they did in Conotope, and there 100,000 people have cheated on 40 million dollars and they're hiding these criminal acts today, and that's when it's really going to be the protection of a particular category of citizens. Where can I get the money? The Communist faction repeatedly not only claimed but also showed where to get the money. Don't steal from the state or use the budget as your own pocket to meet your own financial and political needs by certain financial and oligarchic groups that claim to support the President. The consideration of the issue of the protection of persons with disabilities shows that such a policy of the President and the Government of Ukraine is doomed to extinction. That's why today, not only does it need to be called upon to improve the legislative base, but it's primarily to put the basic order in the state and ask the President today and the authorities, but it's better to replace it urgently, then there will be results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! Each of you takes time. I mean, there's nothing left for your colleague to do. Well, what is it? Announced Yeshchenko, please. Next Okopyan Olena. Stick to the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u102	Fucking Communist faction. Dear National Deputies! Dearly beloved! Dear radio listeners! The issue of the protection of persons with disabilities at an extremely low level of population life, the practical destruction of the domestic manufacturing sector, and the difficult financial situation in the state are of particular importance. The proportion of people with disabilities is increasing year after year, and their social protection is declining or not being implemented at all. Once again, my stay in Cherkishka confirmed that there are major problems with regard to the problems of people with disabilities, their supply of medicines, and the provision of qualified medical care, especially in rural areas. An example of this may be repeated appeals to me by the resident of Cerkasa Treku Mikola Mikolaiovich, a disabled 1 group from a general illness: amputation of both legs, which, if you look at the responses of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the Cherkas Observatories are being assisted. But it's all on paper. It was only yesterday that Mikolayovich called me again with a complaint that nothing was done for him as a disabled person. I understand him. I understand as the disabled of the 1st group of the Great War of Protasenko, who lives in the village of Bogdana in the Jadanów district of our area, who for a year and a half appealed to the head of the Yumina district government for the free telephone call of his homes. The veteran demanded that the law be enforced. On all the petitions he received receipts, and only after my parliamentary request to the former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Kinah, was the disabled 1 group of the Homeland War set up the phone. And here's the money, and there's the line, and that's it. I'm asking questions for you, ladies and gentlemen. We are 450 deputies, and the disabled are 2 million 660,000 people. We probably need to move not to legal work, but to ask questions about every disabled person, because their questions on the ground are virtually not resolved. In order to provide material assistance to the disabled, I have repeatedly appealed to the Fund for Social Protection of the Disabled. The Foundation is trying to help our deputies to resolve for people with limited capacity for material assistance. But let's see that in 2000 the financing of social and social welfare and material security for the disabled was very unsatisfactory. Only 18.3 per cent of the budget was paid to the fund under the article "Material Assistance". So I'm going to go to the Auditorium and ask them to study the subject and report it to us here at the session. Or attitudes toward disabled people who have the right to receive cars with manual driving. There is also the appeal of many veterans, disabled people, who ask for help in this matter. The question is not solved. So I fully support Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek, the leader of our faction in terms of the issues raised by our faction for their final resolution. And only when we remove the anti-national regime of Kuchma do I think the disabled will live better.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u103	Akopián Olena Grachikovna, a well-deserved sports master of Ukraine, a record player and world champion from the Paralympic swim, please. It doesn't, does it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u104	Yes, I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u105	Aah!? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u106	Dear Gennadi Andreević, distinguished deputies, I am now standing before the supreme legislative body of Ukraine, before the elected people, and I am even more worried than when I started the Paralympic Games in Atlanta, Nagano, Sydney and other top sports forums in Europe and the world. The sport of persons with disabilities is a paralympic sport peer of the independent Ukraine, and in late January it has just reached the 10th anniversary of our country's unique public institution, the Ukrainian Centre for Physical Culture and Sport of Persons with Disabilities. Ukraine is the only country in the world that has established a state system of physical culture and sports for persons with disabilities. We believe that this is a major step in the movement of Ukraine towards the standards of advanced civilized countries, to the norms of ensuring the human right to the pursuit of physical perfection and human achievement as an individual. I could tell you a lot about today's physical culture and sport for a Ukrainian citizen who is on a wheelchair, on a church, on a prosthetic, totally blind or seeing a deer, or simply for a deaf person, what is peace, what is life in social isolation, our pension security and the ability to learn and to get education and work. Sport is what made me, and dozens, hundreds of people with disabilities citizens of Ukraine. I have little time to tell you the social significance of physical and sports today for people with disabilities. I will say that today is equally important for Ukraine and its citizens, that any national sport they give to their country is in the world community. This is what is necessary for our young independent Power: to establish our country in the world and in the European community, to raise its authority, to declare that there is such a young developing country, to promote the positive perception of our people in the world. This is what we, the Paralympics, do throughout all the years of Ukraine's independence. I'll give you a few numbers. 1996. Paralympics in Atlanta. The debut of an independent Ukraine in the Paralympic sport. 7 medals won by disabled sportsmen. 1998. Naked, Japan. Winter Paralympic Games. The national team of Ukraine wins 9 medals. 2000 Sydney, Australia. The triumph of Ukrainian Paralympic sports is 37 medals won by our Paralympic athletes. And the last number. In the past year, 82 medals were won at the Paralympic Games in Salt Lake City, the World Cup, and Europe by disabled athletes, of which 42 were gold. We are grateful to the President of Ukraine, to you, the distinguished people's deputies, to all the Governments of Ukraine for what we have done over all these years to open hundreds of thousands of persons with disabilities by means of physical culture and the sport of the door to the world of healthy people, for, together with you, being able to represent the country of origin in the world with our sporting achievements. I have said all this to give a clearer and clearer understanding of what we have done with you both for the country and for people who need help. Unfortunately, there was an incredible situation at the end of the year: you have adopted a state budget in this room in which you reduced the cost of physical culture and sports for disabled persons by more than a third over the previous year. I don't know who had a hand to do it. Perhaps you do not know or have heard that Ukraine has already been declared a country with the highest rate of progress in the Paralympic sport. Maybe there's little on TV or the press, I don't know, but there's one thing: you can't destroy what's Ukraine's fame and pride, what's become the life and need of citizens of the country, whom we still call disabled. I know that there is still little chance of saving the situation that next week you will be making changes to the State budget. On behalf of the Paralympics and the Defolimpics, these are deaf athletes who, within a month, begin to play defolimpic games on behalf of dozens of people who, through sport in our social security environment, are entering life, asking for help and support. This is a total of 3 million. bracelets that do not fully fulfil the potential of the disabled sport budget last year, but which will provide a real opportunity not to lose the development of a socially meaningful phenomenon, such as physical culture and disability sport. I am addressing you, my dear deputies, and I hope that together you will make this very necessary decision for us. Thank you for your attention. Always be healthy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Vasil Ivanovich. Next Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the topic of social protection for persons with disabilities in recent years has not merely become relevant to our State, but the figures that have been cited by the distinguished Mikhail Nikolajevic in his report show that this category of citizens to our great overall regret is steadily increasing. And so what we're looking at today on Government Day, I think it's okay. We have not considered this issue and its progress in the preparation of the Committee, but we have come up with a proposal to return to this topic in the course of 2003. There's a lot to say today. But I believe that we are to a greater extent today, and the debate shows that we must talk about what needs to be done. We face the problem of persons with disabilities in general, both in the State and in our own districts. For example, there are 130,000 inhabitants in Luhansk and Lugansk. Citizens with special needs. Last year, I was the only one who received 124 persons with disabilities. They have the same questions as they did here, and I'm going to repeat them. This is the provision of wheelchairs and motor vehicles, prosthetics, employment, health care. The current level of road transport with manual control will allow waiting for a turn of at least 30 years. The subject has stopped. It's understandable that there's not enough money for cars, but why do we sometimes do less and less, in our view, important but very necessary things for people with disabilities, why is today the use of free orthopedic shoes increased from one to one and a half years if it is actually only 3 to four months? At prosthetic and orthopaedic enterprises, free skeletons and canes are not always available, but this is essential for those with movement problems. In recent years, there has been an increase in the growth rate and the number of children with disabilities. At the initiative of the Luhansk General Education Directorate of the Lugansk Public Administration, the number 45 Lugansk High School is an open unit for intensive pedagogical correction and early rehabilitation of children with special needs. On the ground, they help, but I think there is a point to be drawn to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Committee on Family and Youth, because the experience of this work needs and needs to be expanded not only in the Luhansk region but also in the words, it will be useful for Ukraine as a whole. During my work with boarding homes for older persons and persons with disabilities, I have often faced problems that do not require much money. Thus, there is the 567th Cabinet of Ministers ruling on where available funds can be channelled. Therefore, I think that if we give them the opportunity to work under Economic Classification code 2130, this will solve the same major construction, repair, heating, water supply and everything else. It should also be noted that the various persons in these boarding houses are different in their use of their pensions. I would like to say one more thing: the established social assistance fund so far requires a stable financial replenishment. In 2002, it was funded by 20 per cent in the Lugansk region. This leads to debt and hence to tension, particularly in the mining regions. Under the same law, therefore, it is necessary for the Fund to be provided with rehabilitation facilities. To the great regret of the Partisan holding mine, Anthracite has not been able to hand over the documents for more than six months. I would ask the Cabinet of Ministers to promote all ministries, not just the Ministries of Labour and Social Policy. In addressing the Ministry, I would like to conclude by saying one thing. Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich, your distinguished colleagues, my dear ones, we must create, I beg your forgiveness for perhaps failing to speak, but the social lobby in this Parliament. And when the budget is formed, we must fight with the same enthusiasm for it, as other ministries and departments are fighting. I'm done. In conclusion, there is only one thing I would like to say. Once we've worked together, we'll do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u109	How we can work together to ensure that the Rules are fulfilled. Lechenko Vladimir Aleksijovich, please. The next one is inescapable.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u110	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The days of government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the vitality of Ukrainian society have already been transformed into a formality for the Cabinet of Ministers. There is no change for the better, according to their estimates. Everyone's used to the fact that, on any question, any of the last ten temporary governments for work can make an unsatisfying assessment without discussion. This also applies to the provision of State guarantees in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. What guarantees can there be in a state that has itself become disabled in the last 12 years and has trodden on crutches in an unknown direction with its leadership ahead. Even the information provided by the Ukrainian National Deputies does not conceal the fact that the number of persons with disabilities and their proportions in the population structure are constantly increasing. There are some reasons. But frankly, the main reason for this is the anti - national policy of the current regime. Hunger, cold, unemployment, moneylessness, alcoholism, drug abuse, the loss of the ability to heal at the right time, and other flaws of the “capitalistic paradise, ” daily and every hour fill the ranks of the disabled. People with disabilities have become children for this reason. And that's terrible. In addition, the basic foundations of the domestic economy’s manufacturing sector are a terrible real threat to healthy people to become disabled, and when many people, especially in rural areas, are effectively disabled, they do not formalize their status in a medical institution. So the numbers given by the government are pretty low. The right attitude of the executive branch toward the problems of the disabled is also appropriate. Of course, something is being done, but a number of questions are not being resolved. According to the Chernobyl City Committee of War Invalids and Armed Forces, none of the disabled persons since 1991 have been able to improve their living conditions. There are 15-20 years in turn, 5-6 in one - room apartments with families. A lot of complaints about pension insurance. Money is chronically insufficient for treatment. Of course, there is a significant difference, for example, between the level of disability pension of the Great Homeland War of the army and the sergeant’s warehouse and the officers. At times, it is easier to transform pensions as if they were disabled in connection with a general illness. Many persons with disabilities have complained about transport security, which has been discussed. What about sanitary trips and compensations for them? A disturbing trend has been the release of people with disabilities from their jobs. The numerous appeals of disabled persons to government authorities and local self - government with the request to provide fuel, to repair the roof, to bury, and to the fence that remains unattentioned. The answer is no money. Thus, someone needs such authority that does not have money for the needs of the needy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u111	Thank you. The word is given to Bespalym Boris Jakovic, next to Žurbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u112	Boris Bespalij, city of Kiev, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, I think we've all learned from the presentations and from the materials given that these parliamentary hearings are both timely and necessary. I'm impressed, and that's the right, complex approach to the problem. But it's not possible to discuss everything at once and I would like to draw your attention, not only to your attention, but to the attention of our entire public to a very large group of people with disabilities, to which we do not really pay too much attention. In Ukraine, about 2.7 million people are disabled, as is the case with material. Of them, and you just think about that figure, 1 million 300,000 are people who are limited, not physical, but mental, people with mental disabilities. And I'm asking you, all of us, and the government that's nearby, whether it's going to go into this area, not that each other, but at least every third bracelet. That there's one in three bracelets, I think, and a good word here is always a bad word to wait for. I had plenty of time to prepare for the speech, so that, literally, after each word, I could study the draft regulations for today's hearings. And I think our faction, basically, is ready to support it, but here, for example, in a number of positions, there are individuals -- people with limited physical capacity several times, and again, no words on ten sheets of small font were found for people with limited mental capacity. In the meantime, the problems here are or are not the biggest. Just one pension of 60 dollars, which most of these people receive. Clearly, a person who lives alone cannot live with such a pension. I accept Mr. Vasil Draga's proposal on the social lobby, and in this quality is here not far from being the curator of the Vice-Prime Minister, and the professional ministries, I point out to them that, without waiting for the results of parliamentary hearings, you could review this size of a modest pension in 60 bracelets on the side, of course, of its promotion. I wouldn't want to, my dear colleagues. Now to make specific proposals, we will make them mandatory for the draft regulations. I'd like to talk to you about something else. These are the problems of people with limited physical and mental capacity -- they're not just problems of power, of course, and not just the problems of those people and their families, they're the problems of society as a whole. That is why we need to form public opinion in this regard. I am very grateful to the representatives of the Turkish companies Turbot, Jerello, who are engaged in this grateful work, and together to create this social lobby not only in Parliament, but in society as a whole, because without the proper pressure on power, on its representatives at all levels, as many words as we have not said, we will not address this problem. I think we're all equally interested in this noble cause and I hope we understand our position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u113	Thank you. Zurbenko Victoria Mikolayevna, secretary - general of the National Assembly of Disabled People of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u114	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Dear members of the government! First of all, allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly of Persons with Disabilities of Ukraine, to express my gratitude to Parliament, the government for its cooperation with the movement of persons with disabilities and to focus your attention on the major problems facing the disabled today. In Ukraine, from the first days of independence, there has been a consistent state policy aimed at providing social guarantees for the most vulnerable categories of people with disabilities. Like many other countries, our nation is gradually moving from an outdated philosophy of pity, charity in relation to persons with disabilities, to understanding and recognizing them as equal members of society. Today, we want people with disabilities to have full human rights: civil, social, economic and cultural; and we hope that the European Year of Disabled Persons will contribute to raising public awareness of the rights of almost 3 million people with disabilities in Ukraine. We stress the need for legislation to remove existing barriers to education, employment, access to goods and services, barriers to disabled people’s self - realization and independence. These issues cannot be resolved without the creation of a single system of rehabilitation that takes into account the current trends of the world’s society. We believe that special efforts should be made to ensure that people with disabilities have access to employment mainly in the general labour market. Ukrainian legislation has introduced two ways of stimulating job creation for people with disabilities, and this has been discussed today. First. Because of the establishment of a 4 percent norm in their jobs. The second is through the provision of state support in the form of tax, financial assistance, loans, and so on. I would like to emphasize that such approaches are in line with the recommendations of the United Nations World Programme of Action for Persons with Disabilities. But in view of the constant effort to abolish tax conditions for disabled businesses, we draw the attention of Parliament, the government to the need for unconditional preservation and consolidation in the Tax Code. Unemployment among people with disabilities is now higher than that of a healthy population. Most people with disabilities are in an extremely unfavourable position in the labor market. Legislatively, it is necessary to address the issue of the spread of unemployment status on non-working persons with disabilities. Another major problem that concerns us is the switch to an address aid system. Such a system seems attractive at first, but it cannot be made within a short period of time, primarily due to the lack of the necessary financial resources. Despite some disruptions in the pensions of Ukrainian citizens, it should be noted that pensions remain low even after the last increase in disability pensions does not reach 50 percent of the subsistence minimum. We consider it necessary to increase pensions for persons with disabilities to the minimum of living, and to provide an overview of the minimum of living for persons with disabilities, not less than the minimum of living for working citizens. To conclude, we are convinced of the relevance and reality of solving the issues that have been raised today, which is possible in the context of the consolidation of the efforts of public authorities at all levels, with the participation of public organizations of persons with disabilities. Everything that has been done for the disabled today will have meaning for everyone in the world tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u115	Thank you. Anatoly Frost, next one is Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u116	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the government, colleagues, invited! The politics of our nation, which has recently been noted by almost all media outlets, is not always specific and consistent, principle. It is also in the matter that we are considering today. I think that's what everyone says. On the one hand, we see that social, legal and constitutional guarantees in the area of social protection and the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities regulate some 90 legal acts, a number of state-wide programmes have been adopted to address the problems of citizens with special needs. There are proposals to adopt some other laws, to adopt changes and additions to the existing legislative framework, but the problem is not in this area. And the government acknowledges that the issue of the protection of persons with disabilities is particularly important because of the steady rise in the number of citizens with special needs in Ukraine. Over the past 10 years, we've seen in the report, from 2.1 million to 2.66 million citizens. We must give due consideration to a government that courageously acknowledges the reasons for such a situation. I'm not going to repeat them, they're in the information, but it all shows that the system of government, the internal policy that we have in our state, is not working. On the other hand, the government also acknowledges that there are shortcomings and needs to be accepted. First of all, it's easy to imagine which of the disabled of childhood group I today can use the only government-provided benefit of 50 percent of the premium on intercity transport and in the fall-winter period. Almost no one, because this category usually uses one vehicle — a wheelchair and is used mainly within the housing area. Among all categories of persons with disabilities, there are no benefits paid for utilities, telephones, or other services. This tense situation would greatly improve the state's full implementation of the Ukrainian Act of 16 November on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities in the form that was adopted by the Supreme Council and approved by the President. The fact is that the extent of State aid in the Law is very clear, but in 2001 the Cabinet of Ministers completely blocked the Law. In 2002, almost the same Kabin invented his 80 - dollar minimum of living. The 2003 budget does not solve the issue. It seems that the executive is ignoring any law. This law can be demonstrated today to a strange foreign state, including the UN, and it will make a significant, I think, impressions, in paws, because Ukraine seems to be hurting its people with special needs. So I'm asking the government to correct this situation in 2003. The government's proposal to ensure the establishment of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities needs to be amended to a number of Ukrainian laws, indeed, needs to be supported. But I urge the government, first of all, to have people with disabilities held in Ukraine in 2003, to be able to implement and finance existing laws and legal acts, and then to move on. This means that the first-to-the-hundred-percent funding of state programs for social protection for persons with disabilities, special automobiles, gasoline compensation, I finish, prosthetics, transportation, sanatorium treatment and so on; the second-increasing of the operational social protection of persons with disabilities and the effectiveness of local programs for the protection of persons with disabilities in cities and areas of the region, should leave 20 percent of the cost of fines for the unemployed in the special accounts of the district offices of the Social Protection Fund. Minpraci’s already approved expenditure for the corresponding year is required for the area offices of the Fund for funding and fines. I support the Supreme Council Committee's decision to take into account the proposals made by the deputies and the invited ones, as well as those made in Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka's statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u117	Thank you. Artemenko Yuri Anatolyovich. Next Glady. We still have to have a competition -- who can stick to the Rules -- for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u118	I'll try.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u119	Let's do it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u120	Yuri Artemenko, Our Ukraine faction, Solidarity Group. Dear colleagues, voters, respected members of the Government, I have recently returned from the district, just yesterday, and I would like to make a number of specific proposals, such as from Zaporozhye. First of all, travel. In Zaporozhye district, more than seven thousand disabled persons are in line for their travel to sanatoriums. Seventy per cent of these doctors recommend recovery in the local sanatoriums of the Azov Sea River resort. This is understandable because it is especially difficult for people with disabilities I and II of the group to get away from their relatives and move away from home. However, the funds provided by the State Budget for the sanatorium treatment of persons with disabilities simply do not reach the area. They are replaced by travels that simply do not take advantage of demand. The Disability Protection Fund did not save the situation. from which only 210,000 bracelets have been received in the past year, and debts for travel have been hanging since last year, Therefore, the following sentence is made: part of the funds of the State budget for this purpose should be sent directly to the regions, more visible to whom and where to travel. Second, of the total number of persons with disabilities, only one third had medical statements and could work, there was a so-called four per cent quota for their employment, and in the absence of each vacancy, the employer paid a solid fine of annual wages. On the one hand, however, fines are good because they are the main source of income, on the other hand, because many large enterprises suffer. And here, as they say in Odessa, there are two big differences between the gas station and the metallurgical giant, the semiconductor plant and, say, the same coal mine. Moreover, in the economically developed regions, the same Zaporozhye area, there is an absurd situation: there are vacancies, but there is a shortage of working disabled persons. I invite the Government to develop and introduce differentiated approaches to the establishment of quotas for consideration by the Supreme Council. The total 4 per cent should be waived and different quotas should be introduced depending on the working conditions and specificities of enterprises. I also propose to expand the scope of the grant programme. For families with disabilities, provision should be made for grants in cash for the acquisition of medicines and for prompt treatment. It's not so much money, but people will be grateful. The following two years ago, the Law “On State Social Assistance for Disabled Persons and Children with Disabilities” was adopted. The good intentions of our colleagues of the previous convening have been simply insurmountable. Read for yourself: in my district, there are almost a thousand disabled persons from childhood, including the Grun family, where the husband, wife, child, all unemployed, their total pension is 264 bracelets. Another family is a disabled second group from childhood, a single mother of Polekov Anna with a four-year-old disabled son, a total pension of 123 bracelets. In both cases, and in other cases, the above-mentioned law gives them little because the guaranteed minimum for the award of benefits is 90 bracelets and the law provides either for pensions or benefits. Today, the average social pension for a disabled person from childhood is 61 bracelets 71 kopecks. In the event that the pension is waived and the benefit is granted, the amount of the pension will be 135 bracelets for the disabled, 63 bracelets for the second group, 45 bracelets for the third group, i.e. in fact, it is found that the benefit of disabled persons from the age of two-thirds of the group is simply unfavourable. Moreover, the pension is paid on a monthly basis within a clearly defined period of time and the benefit is granted on a monthly basis as the subsidy is received. And as she does, many know. As a result, the disability faces a dilemma: either to receive a poverty pension, but on time, or a little more, but irregularly. I suggest. Either provide for a disability benefit without depriving him of his pension or increase the guaranteed minimum for the award of a benefit from 90 bracelets to the level, at least to the minimum wage level of 185. In both cases, the benefit should be paid for a month, a month, as a pension. Finally, the last. As of today, Parliament has seen, registered and continued to adopt new and new bills to amend the basic law on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities. I think that the situation has come to light, and this initiative should be taken by the Government to create a new version of this law, taking into account the realities and changes that have taken place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u121	Maybe that's what we should start with. We didn't make it. Please, Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich. The next one is Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u122	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues and guests of the Supreme Council! Let's agree that the most interesting thing about the disabled themselves is the increase in the overall figures mentioned here. They want their working conditions and lives to be really improved. And most importantly, they have confidence in tomorrow. So today, I'm sure they're expecting us to have a frank, principled conversation, which is happening today in this room, what and when will be done, and what to expect in the near future. So I move on to the specific proposals proposed by the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. First. Ensure full implementation of the existing legislation, which is proposed for the protection and support of persons with disabilities. First of all, this refers to the tax service, which is obliged in due time to pay back to the disabled enterprises the statutory value added tax, rather than to find reasons to refuse. The other one. Disabled people are asked not to adopt laws that would make their lives worse, such as keeping existing benefits in the Tax Code and other legislation. The third is to resolve the issue of the write-off of loans, the loans that will be received from the Social Protection Fund, but today they cannot be returned because of the difficult financial situation of disabled enterprises. Four. Take urgent measures to ensure full use of available workplaces in disabled enterprises. What do we have today? Yes, according to the Ukrainian Society of the Deaf, about 80 percent of the deaf have been released from state enterprises and have become unemployed. At the same time, there are companies available. 8,000 600 jobs are used in less than half, and in one shift with full load. The reason for this is not only a general decline in the economy but also a specificity of the work of the deaf, which is very difficult to understand in market relations. Fifth. The crisis has become a housing problem for the disabled. If they used to build housing at the expense of the profits of the manufacturing companies, now this source of funding is not working, and other housing opportunities are not created. It may be necessary to take a closer look at the situation in which individual social facilities for disabled people are being built. Six. I personally have a negative attitude toward all kinds of benefits, but with regard to the disabled, especially in today’s conditions, I fully support their request to expand and legally secure the benefits of utilities, communications, urban and suburban transportation, and so forth. Seven. Knowing the state's difficult economic situation, I don't want to put too much emphasis on the financing of measures aimed at social protection and support for people with disabilities, although I think there are also many shortcomings in this work, so there are enough complaints from people with disabilities. At the same time, to my profound conviction, many of the things that are not being resolved today are not as economic as the result of the callous treatment of people with disabilities by leaders of different levels. The honourable deputies, our agrarian party and deputies believe that if the Cabinet of Ministers calls us to work together today, it should be one that will allow in the near future, not in the distant future, to provide for every disabled person, wherever he may live, in a large city or in a small village, worth living. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Hinzburg Olga Petrovna, next Zarubinsky
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, my constituents. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I went out to this rostrum today, realizing that I wouldn't say anything new and understanding that nothing would be resolved in this room after this discussion. It's just like it's done for you to hear it, yes. I'd like to start with this. In my district, as in Ukraine, today, the disabled of the Great Homeland War and the citizens with a poor physical condition expect something special from us. And what would I like to say? You must all, our listeners, understand today that you need a state. And this belief that you need a state should give you a chance to stick with the world somehow. A person who feels that someone needs her is always more cheerful. And most of all, what I would like to say in my speech today is that it's like my main course of speech. There are problems, many of them. There are state problems, there are local problems. The state problems you just talked about here, I'm not going to repeat them, they're already familiar to us. There's one problem. If you have taken up a job and cannot do it, give it to someone else. Tell me I can't. And if you're going to do that, you're going to have to make sure you don't have any pretenses. I want to say something else. But there are local problems. When I come to the district, the second time I think, who's more damaging to the President or the opposition there, the Communist Party or something, or their own, who's in power? And for me, there's one answer -- more damaging to today's regime is those in power. I come to the village, with me, for example, always a representative of the administration, people come to the reception. And the first person to come is a war invalid who says, "I haven't been added a gas balloon." I'm running with him, with the church, in the village, and I'm like, "Give me a gas balloon." He's sitting on the head of the village council and he says, "How come you don't have a gas balloon? Haven't you been given yet?" - I said, "How many disabled people do you have in the village?" - Three. - Well, why didn't they give it to you? How much did you give everyone? You had 60. Why didn't you? We didn't bring the wood. They didn't see 50 bucks. After three nights, there are 50 bracelets of disabled people. Why can't we decide what needs to be decided? I'm sorry. And there's another problem that's hurting me, and I want to talk about it in particular. These are the cripples of the Great Homeland War. That's the problem with the state. These are the people who passed through the Great Country Fronts; the people who, after the war, were able to rebuild villages and cities with mosaics. They planted new gardens, they overcame the fight against shamelessness, with children without parents. These people rebuilt the country, handed it over to us -- children, grandchildren -- strong, peaceful, respected by the whole world. And today we can't repay the little cripples who are to provide them with old age. The Soviet State, the Soviet Ukraine, is an example of a world that has supported the disabled and disadvantaged, and the whole world has learned to solve these social problems today by learning in our country. And I want us to solve these questions, and the people waiting for us have a little more patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u125	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich Next Dry One.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u126	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, it is good that 2003 is declared in Ukraine, as in all of Europe, the Year of Persons with Disabilities. And although the laws have more or less clearly defined the system of benefits and compensation to this category of citizens, many of them, unfortunately, only remain on paper. For example, in the Winnitsky area, where there are over 100,000 people with disabilities in different categories, I would like to show that there are many problems that need to be solved at the national level. First of all, this is a question related to the recovery of disabled people. I was wondering. Out of the number of people in charge to provide sanatorium treatment in Winnkin's social protection system, 3,640 people with disabilities. Including 1,806 war invalids. But at the expense of the State Budget, only 1,106 people with disabilities were able to recover, and as far as I know, about this proportion in all areas. One more moment. Today, in every area of Ukraine, there are territorial centers for the care of single, disabled citizens and disabled persons. There are 35 of them in the Winnitz region, serving some 22,000 disabled people at home. More than 20 different essential services are provided by the power centres of subhumans, including household supplies, subsidies, fuel supplies, food supplies, medicines, housing, and so forth. But this is, as we know, the local budget, at the expense of the local budget. However, insufficient funding under such clear conditions does not allow for an increase in the number of social workers in the district centers, and I would like to raise this problem. This leads to a social worker serving 14 employees. I don't know about other people, but in the Winnitz region they're basically people who live in rural areas, you know what happens at any time, under different circumstances. I consider it appropriate, and perhaps it is necessary, to pay attention to the need to provide social workers with the necessary facilities, such as the district social security centers of the social workers’ bicycles of domestic production, seeking separate funds for this purpose. And for the rest. It is known that a significant part of the work of bodies and institutions that provide social protection for people with disabilities is the rehabilitation of children with disabilities, which has already been mentioned today. In order to comprehensively address the problems of child disability and rehabilitate such children in the Vinnitsk region, the Center for the Rehabilitation of the Special Light Child has been established, namely, children with child cerebral palsy. There are similar centers in all district centers, but how are they financed, from what sources? I know that last year no amount of maintenance was made from the budget, although there was a single line in the budget law. Which is exactly what the cost was spent on, which is 20 million subsidies, I don't know. I remember this clearly when the Ukrainian Budget Act 2002 was approved. I remember being repeatedly answered by the top officials, but these were all the receipts, as they were found. And also, Gennady Andriyovich, because no one is less than four and a half minutes away, and I think that all the deputies are equal in our room, at least theoretically, I'm making specific proposals to the minister. Dear Mikhaylo Mikolaiovich, we often communicate and productively, I suggest you consider those proposals. To predict the possibility of opening special accounts in institutions of banks for children with disabilities who live, learn and work in residential workshops. This will allow a young person to have some financial capital on his way out of the boarding school that can be spent on further training, housing, automobiles, and so forth. The other one. A transparent mechanism needs to be developed for the distribution of funds from the budget, which are allocated annually to support the social organizations of persons with disabilities. Until now, these funds have been regularly received, more or less regularly, only UTOS, UTOG and SOI, and the other 25 all-inclusive organizations of disabled persons remain outside this funding. [[Union of Disabled Organizations]] That's not right. And the last moment, it's like an offer. I think it is worth setting up an international liaison center, whose main task is to establish close links with relevant international organizations of persons with disabilities, charities, commercial institutions, and organizations. This is another possible source of information and funding. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u127	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Next one is Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! As a representative of the industrial region from which the MPs have already spoken, I would like to point out that unfortunately, a large army of people with disabilities in our country are being filled annually by the victims of production, including not just the mines. It is encouraging, therefore, that nearly 160,000 such disabled persons have taken care of the general government social security insurance against an accident at work. And as a positive point, for the first time in recent years, I want to point out that for the first time in years, it's been able to provide 100 percent of the current insurance payments with timely funding, and, secondly, that's significantly reduced by almost 300 million dollars, the regression debt. This is certainly a step towards ensuring the rights of citizens to social protection, guaranteed by article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine. What, though, do I want to stress separately as Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Work? Respectful colleagues, the world’s experience shows that the complex problem posed by occupational risks, industrial injuries, and occupational diseases has not succumbed to and is not subject to public administration, but is ensured by the creation of a national labour protection and social protection system for those affected by production, especially those who have lost their jobs. This system must be based on the economic interest of all social partners, employees, employers and the state. The legal perfection of our work should be at the heart of it. So in this room, the question of the national MPs has already been asked: Why is the four - percent employment rate so inefficient so far? Why is it a unique case of sabotage or formal approach? But because we, in our many amendments to the law on the basis of the social protection of the disabled, have never answered two conceptual questions. First, what category of workers are these four percent? In all of them, in full numbers, including harmful and risky working conditions? Under article 17 of the Act on Those Who Were Created, do I quote, normal, normal working conditions? And secondly, why doesn't the Social Protection Fund take responsibility for sending a disabled person to work? Then it would be mutual responsibility for direction and employment. And what's economically advantageous is to create jobs in businesses that have high wages, or to create individual disabled enterprises, and where would the disabled themselves want to work? The urgent measures to be taken in the direction of improvement have been given to me by my constituents, the machine builders, the metalsmiths of Zaporozhye. The first is to strengthen preventive measures to reduce industrial trauma and occupational diseases and to fund them accordingly. The second is to improve work on the social, medical, and professional rehabilitation of people with disabilities, including those affected by production. The third is to improve the quality of social services for people with disabilities, including by providing means of transport. We hope that the government will work hard in this area. I firmly believe that in order to implement any social agenda, the plans in society have to be ensured -- civil peace, peace and stability, as a guarantee of our success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u129	Thank you. Dokkin Mikhailovich, next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u130	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, present! I would like to focus on some issues. The difficult economic situation, ecology, overall deterioration in the overall standard of living of the entire population, has also led to an increase in the number of people with disabilities. At the same time, social protection laws and rehabilitation laws do not prejudge this negative phenomenon, are adopted without guaranteed financial security, are often translated into local authorities and are simply populist. Let me give you an example. In Kamini, a new position on the terrcenters is now being approved. The project envisages expansion in the area of the activities of the centres and the expansion of the service categories. But as a member of the budget committee, I know that there is no budget for this. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers’ decision reduces the cost of maintaining social institutions, which will naturally reduce both the network and the state, as well as the supply of services. The second problem, out of the 134 thousand people with disabilities in the Kharkiv region, 3.5 percent got disability in production. And if public enterprises do not turn their backs on the problem of such disabled persons, private businesses and firms ignore the responsibility for the fate of such persons. I think that in the legislative order it is necessary to increase the responsibility of these employers to ensure the necessary living conditions for those who have suffered from production. The next problem is the problem of children with disabilities. In our country, much is being done in this regard, the basic program "Children of Ukraine" is being implemented. But has everything been taken into account and found financial support? Again, such problems are more than achievements. I personally had one mother in a category of low-income families who raised a child with disabilities herself. This family's budget can't even be called a survival budget, the pension is a little over 50 dollars and 5 dollars is added for the care of this child. And that money's even been taken. To that end, we need to add modest government assistance to low - income families with children who are paid a great deal of time. Such examples can lead to countless national MPs. Local authorities are looking for ways to support such families and children, but an in-depth social program with stable public funding is needed. I think I'm supported by my fellow MPs, and we need to open rehabilitation centres for children with disabilities with guaranteed state funding in these centres in every district. Fourth problem. People with disabilities of various categories, often without trust in the State, began to unite themselves, and together they stood up for their right to life. In my district, for example, there are about five social organizations with disabilities. Some positive experience has been made in their work. Local authorities have created the necessary conditions for their activities and are provided with assistance. However, the legislative framework does not provide for the financial support of these public organizations. I think we need to review immediately the state's attitude towards these voluntary social organizations. Fifth. This is a problem for the disabled themselves. In our country, the human right to work is not fully guaranteed, but the problem of the disabled is exacerbated. This is where the state must create the necessary conditions. Provide additional jobs for people with disabilities in different categories, predict and support the development of small businesses especially for disabled persons, and provide the necessary portfolio of orders for such enterprises. And the sixth problem. I'm done. The sixth problem is of a national nature and is the cause of the sad result of society’s disability. This is a problem of maintaining and developing social institutions for people with disabilities. Disability problems are the problems of our voters, our parents and our loved ones. No one is warned to fall into the category of these people. I very much hope that today’s discussion will provide a good impetus for all participants to work together to resolve mature problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u131	Pavlovsky Mikhailo Antonovich. The next one is Matvienkov. Please follow the Rules. In three minutes, come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u132	Pavlovski, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues, I'm speaking in the last, so I'm going to summarize some of these. Three minutes is enough. Our colleagues spoke and showed in numbers the level of living and welfare of people with disabilities in the years of reform fell 20-40 times depending on the category as well as the whole state. So the question is that we need to provide, we know, acute questions about jobs not only for people with disabilities, but also for people who are working. Because we have about 10 million unemployed, that's a European record. So the most important task of the government that comes out today is to create jobs of skilled work for all, and then it will be easier for the disabled. What's more, I'd like to pay attention very briefly to the fact that three categories of people with disabilities who are not mentioned in the decree are children with disabilities of the Great Homeland War; they're lonely people with disabilities, and they're not spoken of either. And what I'm saying is that we have about 300,000 people with mental illness, and they're not told much about them either. But in general, most of all, we need to create jobs. The disabled can provide for themselves. This exhibition on top shows that this can be done. However, domestic technology is not enough. Even these prosthetics, the materials are polymeric, you can do anything in Ukraine, I told them where to go. We need to go to the Kyiv Institute of Technology, there are developed extruders who have no analogs in the world, and they can make these materials better, any individual order. This time. And the second. I brought it here today, maybe there's still the media, show all of Ukraine that in Poltava, disabled people produce these kind of lights. There's the LEDs, there's the LEDs, this is the invention of Ukraine, this is another high technology that Ukraine has given to the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u133	This is a violation of the advertising law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u134	Moreover, even Professor Kosicenko, they need to be advertised, traveled through Ukraine, and today he teaches the world how to make them multicolored. But interestingly, more than half of the traffic lights in Ukraine with LEDs are purchased abroad. And we write in the budget, don't buy the budget, so what is it? So this problem is very acute. And what I'm going to suggest is a specific proposal for a decision. The commercials made by the disabled should go on our central channels and free of charge. That's a specific offer. Because when the technology was high, Government Day, 12 technologies were presented that had no analogues in the world. I went to the TV channels: show me, it doesn't have analogs." Not a single channel was mentioned, but they were interested in which faction would pass. So the problem is, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, that the media should work for Ukraine, not on foreign companies, who pay them money, not money, but a sense of unity, a state, a nation’s idea should unite. - that's the main thing, that's all. And that's why we're going to have the Law about advertising, and I'm going to immediately propose that the advertising of disabled products be free. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u135	The word is given by Matthew’s Sergey Anatolyevich. Next Kalinchuk. Follow the rules, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u136	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Today, we are really talking a lot about the sinister problem that lies ahead of us. The life of this category of people is indeed in a very difficult situation and must be resolved by all States, and must be resolved by all together. But let us try to see if we are doing everything within the limits of the opportunities and financial flows that are already in existence today. Once again, I want to return to the same problem: four per cent job creation for persons with disabilities in industrial enterprises and at all facilities. I'll give you one concrete example. The metal-llurgy combination of Ilyich. 1.5 million bracelets a month. Think of it, 1.5 million bracelets. That's what we're talking about. If that's a tax, that's what I asked the Minister, then let's figure out why this money doesn't go to UTOZ, why they don't go to UTOG, why they don't go to the UTOG today, why they're not doing this today, why they're doing this today, why they're bringing in this miserable existence, why are there such miserable wages today, and we understand very well that they can be competitive today? 130 million bracelets, those you called today, and you need to look at the effectiveness of using these tools. If this is not a tax, if this is indeed a need, a need for employment, then let us return to these organizations. Today in these organizations, wages are, let's say, up to 200 bracelets. Large industrial enterprises are willing to take on one or two such organizations today and raise their wages twice or three times. Try to join at least one UTO or UTZ organization today to become a major industrial enterprise, and society is becoming engrossed. No! No! So let's answer the question, do we want to solve this problem or not? If we're going to make a decision, then let's get on with it. We're saying today that the most disabled people are given metals, they're given miners. My dears! I'm going back to what I've talked about on several occasions. The Accident Insurance Act. We've opened a fort to "fertilize" the disabled today. What is the matter is that the head of the enterprise is not at this time interested in compliance with security standards. He paid, depending on the category of complexity in the enterprise and depending on the number of workers in the enterprise by regression and everything, and hands “washed”. Absolutely. How many regressors does he have? That's 100, that's 300, that's 400 -- it's nobody's business. And we have repeatedly said: "Let us bind payment and encourage business leaders not to increase the number of these people who are truly suffering under difficult conditions of production." These are two fundamental issues that we need to address and, of course, there are issues and distributions of paths, there are issues and distributions of other solutions to problems. But these are two fundamental issues, especially the work of the UTOGs and the UTOS, the proclamation and solutions to these financial flows, I think today will solve many problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u137	Thank you. Kalinczuk Vasil Antonovich. Next Bachtieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u138	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Dear members of the government! The question raised today for the consideration of Government Day is archival. Because one of the indicators of the level of civilization of society is the creation by the State of such conditions of living with disabilities, so that they do not feel, excuse me, damaged but, rather, equal in their capabilities and their attitude towards themselves in society. According to a report by Honourable Michael Mikolaiovich, some work on social protection of the disabled is being carried out in Ukraine and according to the legislative framework. A number of decrees of the President of Ukraine, decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, have been adopted in the budgets of all levels for these purposes. But the lack of agreement, the imperfection of legislative acts and the inadequate implementation of them by the owners and executive bodies, the lack of funding for social protection measures for persons with disabilities need to be addressed more decisively, consistently, and comprehensively. In particular, in my view, the difficult situation with regard to the protection of persons with disabilities is in rural areas. In fact, there is no union here to solve common problems. Almost no jobs are created for them, living conditions are, in other words, a significant improvement. Most people with disabilities, the veterans of the Great War of the country, the Chernobylites, the disabled in general are not even equipped with telephones, and this is important to them, considering their age and health. Not all travels to receive sanatorium treatment are provided, but costs, such as the Odessa District Office of the Fund for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, have paid compensation for the unused sanatorium and smoking treatment of war invalids in the amount of only 20,000 dollars in debt 364. Even worse is the provision of social assistance in the village to disabled people from childhood and children with disabilities. Ukraine's law on this issue in accordance with the Constitution guarantees the right to financial security at the expense of the State budget and its social protection through the establishment of state aid at the minimum of living. But that is not happening! As an example. In the village of Novoleksandrovka, in the region of Odessa, there is a birth of Billan Irina in 1990, an invalid from childhood, a diagnosis of cerebral palsy. The physical child is extremely limited but highly gifted mentally. Sadly, since the school is located in a nearby village, learning is not possible. The child’s mother turned to all the facilities for the child’s prosthetics by car. The answers are negative. And such examples are not unique. This is evidence of serious shortcomings in implementing Ukraine’s social protection legislation. We've been working on proposals to improve the situation. I'm handing them over to the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons in the drafting of the Supreme Council ruling on the subject under discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u139	Thank you. Bachteyev Tetjana Dmitrovna, next to Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u140	Tatyana Bacheeva, 42th District, Donetsk City, "Regions of Ukraine" faction. Dear Gennady Andreevich! Dear colleagues! All present! We have heard several times that we are well aware that the current year 2003 has been proclaimed by the Council of Europe as a year of people with disabilities. I want to focus on a very important part of the problem of disability, namely, children. The civilization of the State can be judged not only by the level of development of production and production per capita, but not by the light and cleanness of every city, but by the attitude towards the weak and unprotected, which is, of course, children with disabilities and children with disabilities. You can only imagine how difficult it is for parents who raise their children, for many of them require, practically, 24 hours of attention. Over the past 10 years, the number of children with disabilities under the age of 16 has increased by 25 per cent in our country, and today this figure is 153 thousand, which is practically the whole city. I consider such indicators to be a real disaster, a problem, as the number of children with disabilities is rising against the backdrop of the decline in the total number of births. One of the main reasons for the increase in disability among children is the decline in the quality of the gene pool in Ukraine, the deterioration of the general health status of the nation. In addition, environmental factors have a negative impact on children's disability, in particular the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, technological problems, as well as acute and social problems. Regrettably, not all the problems of children with disabilities are being addressed today, but three equal challenges must be addressed, health, social and pedagogical. Let me give you an example. More than 14,000 children are currently in need of prosthetics, but none of Ukraine's prosthetic centres specialize in the manufacture of prosthetics. The establishment of such a centre is essential, but we will also hope that it is planned. What must be done to improve the situation? In my view, measures to prevent the birth of children with disabilities should be taken first, rehabilitation of children with disabilities from the first months of their birth, which would enable them to combat the increase of child disability more effectively, to ensure an integrated approach to the rehabilitation of children with disabilities, in particular the establishment of an effective public financial support system for children with disabilities and their parents, and to establish a unified system for the rehabilitation of children with disabilities that would bring about better, better and better work in this area. I am convinced that the programme for children with disabilities should be more focused on social adaptation, self-service and social integration. In Sweden, for example, children with disabilities are adapted to self-transport. There are not only special classes for this purpose, but even schools. An interesting example is Canada, where there are no special institutions for children with disabilities at all. The State provides them with substantial material support. And if parents give up such a disabled child, they are held by a local territorial community. Of course, that's all we can dream of. The main challenge of our society vis-à-vis children with disabilities is to bring their living conditions, education and employment into line with the living conditions of healthy children. I think we'll figure it out together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u141	Thank you. Nightshade Mikola Petrovich. The next one is the Master.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u142	Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, present, 160 Deaf constituency, Hard Ukraine faction. Ukraine has agreed to the standard rules of equal security, and today we must be equal to these rules and do everything we can to ensure, as is now possible, that people with disabilities are integrated into society. Well, let's say again that unfortunately statistics say that the number of people with disabilities is increasing every year, we've seen the dynamics by 100,000, and we have to say that the disability is getting younger today. Now, I'm not going to summarize today, and there's a reporter for that, but to do that, I want to express my gratitude to the social protection officials, the territorial centers, the government administrations, the other departments that work with a category of people with limited capabilities. We call people with disabilities, we call them "thank you," that they're in underfunding conditions, that we're better off here in the session room, taking on the entire flow of discontent and not allowing ourselves to be disturbed by social problems. A few problems I want to stop at, a legislative settlement. We need to go back to that question. The legislation on disabled persons, which was written on the basis of the Soviet Union, of that legislation, was aimed at social security. Today we're talking, at the level, for example, the minimum of living is 20 percent, we're talking, we should talk about the level of social protection. First of all, we need to allow the disabled to decide whether he is working or not. Why does a government official say to him, "You're an unworkable person," if there are new technologies today where you can use intelligence and intelligence. I won't spread any more. If we just take that idea off the table, we'll immediately include the possibility of our funds raising billions of dollars to teach a disabled person how to work. Why should this be done by a fund of disabled people who are shaped by fines? I don't get it. We have other funds, and we also have a disabled person who claims to be in this state aid. Next, the participation of ministries and authorities in solving the problems of people with disabilities. More than once, we say that we need to remove the barriers. As an example, four years goes by with our Statebud to decide. Yes, he accepted the latest orders in which he recommended that inspectors prohibit the taking of objects that were not suitable for disabled persons. And the second is to ban technical projects where there is no condition for disabled people at all. Why there are no social security officials in the boards that agree with the technical conditions. Valery Ivanovich Skull, I'm asking you with a parliamentary request, is that difficult? Is that what the budget is? We just have to go stateside and take it down. One more thing, funding. Today, if we're saying that this is a national problem, we need to approach this problem and this problem in general. First. The problem of early rehabilitation of persons with disabilities must be foreseen in the Budget Code so that they fall into the local budget formula. You can't leave that behind. The territory where he has a tax base, he'll find the funds. What about the Our pride is the national rehabilitation centers. They're also left-over. And the last stroke. Today, if the state says that the family agrees with their grief, the child, to go to boarding school. It's the 400th anniversary of the month the state is using. If the family wants to go to the rehabilitation center, it's 40-50 dollars a month, but the famous instructions don't allow it. And what I want to say is the position of our faction: to prevent the deterioration of social protection of people with disabilities. Yes, we have a working legislative base. But there is another responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u143	Master Vladimir Jakovic. The next is Rybak Volodymyr Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u144	Master Vladimir Jakovic, District 14, Wynnicka District, faction of the "Regions of Ukraine". Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Members of the Government. Today, many words were said about the need to improve social protection for persons with disabilities, to create conditions for the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities, to teach and to work. But as an MP from the rural district, I would like to draw your attention to this problem. The problem is that in Kiev or in some of the disabled areas, more or less acceptable living conditions are created. In rural areas, however, disabled people, especially single ones, have extremely serious problems in their daily life and so forth. So acute is the supply of medicines, medical care, or hospital care. Moreover, there are no very limited opportunities for communication with the outside world. For their poor pension, they have been deprived of the ability to subscribe to enough newspapers and magazines. I think today I would like to draw the government's attention to the proposal to develop a comprehensive programme to create decent living conditions for people with disabilities, to integrate people with disabilities into society. The program should be designed to improve the communication of persons with disabilities, to ensure that they are fully telephoned, and to enable the payment of benefits for periods. But most of all, I would like to point out that when you talk about people with disabilities, you don't have to forget about new technologies, including access to the Internet for people with disabilities, which would allow the latter to communicate more with the outside world, to gain distance education and opportunities for professional growth. The state could provide providers with certain benefits for the connectivity of disabled people on the Internet. The second question I'm making today is almost the last, and I'd like to say that, in my opinion, today, one of the main tasks is to put in place a set of measures to re-evaluate society's disability status. Sadly, our country has developed such a stereotype of people with disabilities that since these people have limited opportunities, they cannot have a full share in social life. But I don't think that's true, because a fairly large number of obstacles, which severely narrows down the disabled to their activities, are artificial, and they can be solved in some of the efforts. In civilized countries, the authorities have contributed greatly to the disabled by creating conditions for the full development of the individual, the wide range of opportunities for careers and communication. And if we want to become a democratic and civilized country, we have to go the same way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u145	Thank you. Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, Ukrainian national deputy, representative of the government in parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u146	45 constituency, Volodymyr Rybak. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. Today’s discussion on social protection has shown how much attention our nation pays to the problems of people with disabilities by supporting them in an effort to fully improve their social protection. I want to say a few words about the government's activity in this direction. To criticize, perhaps, any activity of the authorities. But at the same time, you can't help but notice the positive points that are being made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the report said so, and I won't repeat myself. We need to determine the direction of further joint action by the Government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to achieve the main objective of improving the standard of living of people with disabilities. The first line of action needs to be improved. In this regard, the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Occupational Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities should be accelerated. The other one. Speed up the adoption of pension reform laws as a prerequisite for increasing the level of disability pension. Third. Additional sources of funding need to be found to meet the needs of persons with disabilities more fully, as the State budget for the current year provides 349 million dollars to finance the social protection of persons with disabilities, and much more is needed. Four. There is a need for legislation to define the status of centres for professional rehabilitation and early social rehabilitation of children with disabilities and to consider financing them. Fifth. Along with the government, we need to adopt a national programme to ensure unhindered access for people with limited physical capacity for housing facilities for civilian purposes. This has also been said today. Six. The development and organization of a series of urban passenger buses and trolleybuses equipped with special devices should be accelerated. We need to create conditions for the provision of housing for the disabled through the development and adoption of a special purpose program called Housing for Persons with Disabilities. The questions outlined are very difficult; they need the support of the government by the national MPs. These issues should be the basis for the Cabinet of Ministers’ work programme, and this is what is being done today, which should be a programme of concrete action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u147	Thank you. Alexiovich. The word is given to the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled People, Peter Stepanovich Cibenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u148	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues! Honorable Leaders of Disabled People’s Organizations! Dear voters! In my brief presentation as Head of the Professional Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, I want to generalize, highlight some of those that have already spoken or are emerging from today's Government Day. First of all, I would like to point out that the process of discussing the situation of disabled people in Ukraine shows how timely, time-consuming this topic has been identified as proposed by the profile committee, and how right both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the MPs have been when they have supported this very order of day's Government Day. During the discussion of this extremely difficult, painful problem, it is vital to choose the correct tone of the conversation. Really, how can we evaluate what has been done in the past? This is usually the difference between our performances today, and that's where the evaluation division is. It has to be acknowledged, and it is objective that there has been a great deal of social protection in this area lately, and it is true. But the truth is that during this time the level of requirements for solving the problems noted has also increased significantly, and that is also true. And the recognition of these two things means that the distance between what is already done and what needs to be done, what we are destined to do, has hardly changed. We cannot, we do not have the right to ignore this, appreciating not only the government’s work but today’s state of solving many of the challenging problems of the disabled. Let us agree that a large proportion of people with special needs, first among the unorganized parts of them, feel completely vulnerable. And the fact that many healthy people feel as unprotected as they are does not remove the problem at all. The other one. I would like to draw your attention to the positive and negative ratio of the textual content distributed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The ratio is about: 4 pages positive to one page negative. In principle, I cannot agree with this. If that were true, it would mean that the problem is practically solved, and then the day of government today would simply be unnecessary. The problem of the situation of disabled people in Ukraine is extremely multifaceted. Still, it can be brought to two large blocks. First block. There is an urgent need to make a number of changes to current legislation in favour of the support of people with disabilities, their organizations and businesses, first of all, in the Budget and Earth Codes, and to prevent the inclusion of openly disabled things in the adoption of the Tax Code, which will soon take place. Second block. To ensure that the legal basis in Ukraine for the social protection of persons with disabilities, their organizations and businesses is at least as stated in the military constitutions: clear, unhindered and fixed terms. And there's one thing I'd like to stress in particular. The problem is really complex and requires joint coordinated efforts by all branches and parts of the government. First of all, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in particular the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance, together with the Tax Administration; the executive branch in the local authorities and local authorities, the Supreme Council. I believe that the important contribution to the huge and extremely responsible work should be made by the disabled themselves and their public organizations. Convinced that such an important institution as the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should make his contribution to the protection of persons with disabilities. I think we have a pretty unusable reserve here, too. The fact that with 2,300 complaints received by the Commissioner in 2002 with problems of violations of rights and freedoms, 1 in 4 relates to the problems of persons with disabilities is a fact. And finally. I would like to thank all those who have a bearing on the preparation of the Government Day today. First of all, the leaders of the social organizations of the disabled, the people of the region, the representatives of the organizations of the people with disabilities in Kiev, who care for the problems of the disabled and the lonely, and the disabled with mental disabilities, and those who can be called the echoes of war. I would like to express my special thanks to the Republic's Council of War and Work Veterans and, in particular, to National Deputy John Alexander Gerasimov for the proposals made to the Committee for the Protection of Persons with Disabilities, which is extremely important. And the last. You know, today's discussion has shown that both in the Supreme Council Hall and outside of it, there are a lot of thinkers on pensioners, veterans and disabled people. I am absolutely convinced that by working together we will do the very important tasks that lie ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u149	Thank you. For the final word, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine Papiev Mikolaajovich is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear Gennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished representatives of the social organizations of the disabled, you can see that today, in the hall, there are deputy heads of the district public administrations who are responsible for social policy issues, heads of chief labour and social protection offices from all areas and regions of Ukraine, heads of social insurance funds. So people who have a direct involvement in the problems that sounded in our room. I would support the version Peter Stepanovich said that the government is doing much to improve the health situation. There's a lot going on. But I would point out that we're going to have to do more. And it's the debate here today in the walls of Parliament of this important and painful subject, which has to do not only with the disabled, but with all the citizens of Ukraine, that will allow us to move forward and these goals that we have set out, yet to achieve them. I thank all those who have taken part in the debate on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think the draft of the two alternatives will be adopted correctly, right, Peter Stepanovich? And the government will draw conclusions, set goals. And for the representatives of the regions, I am also sure that this day, held in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, will also benefit. I thank everyone here, and I guarantee that we will take everything into account, and yet we will move forward in improving the social protection of the population of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-11-m0.u151	Thank you. The honourable national deputies invited, indeed, stressed that the topic of today’s government day is extremely relevant. This is a problem that requires active everyday intervention by all branches of government. carrying out parliamentary monitoring of the implementation of legislation on social protection for people with special needs, including in the context of the actions to be taken by the Council of Europe for persons with disabilities, will contribute to their ability to rehabilitate and integrate into society. From this rostrum there were many fitting suggestions, interesting thoughts, reasoning. How to strengthen the care of those who are or are not in the most difficult situation today! And we have no right, moral or authority, to close our eyes to the whole painful problems of our fellow countrymen. I fully share the view of my colleagues that the Cabinet of Ministers, the central and local executive authorities, have not fully managed to provide State guarantees in the area of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. There were so many sad and even dramatic facts that it was not easy, but there were also some terrible existences of people with disabilities, including children with disabilities. There are no requirements for effective legislation to provide basic health care at the expense of the State, many cases simply of the egregious legal nihilism of all kinds of officials of all ranks with regard to persons with disabilities. It's unacceptable. Examples were cited here. At the same time, I agree with the proposals on the need to improve national legislation, which really has many gaps. Therefore, this problem must be reflected in the decision taken by the Supreme Council. I am addressing the officials of the ministries and the authorities of the district government who are directly concerned about the social protection of persons with disabilities, about other officials involved in this matter, about Parliament: let us work together, together, together, to do everything we can, depending on us, so that further state policies aimed at solving the problems of disability and disabled people do not lose their effectiveness are reversed. The priorities are defined, so you have to start them in stages, but the real solution, the little things don't have to be here. Finally, on the draft decision, in principle, the project found a reflection of the main problem of the subject under discussion, but given your suggestions, it needs to be carefully worked out. A special committee, along with government officials, should generalize all of this and submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council for final adoption. Thank you all for your active, caring attitude toward too many painful issues. And at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. After lunch work on committees, parliamentary factions, and groups. Tomorrow at 16 p.m., parliamentary hearings to commemorate the memory of the victims of the famine. The next plenary session will begin at 10 p.m. on February 18. Good luck. Thank you all.
