ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:00]] There were negative 437 national MPs registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of Ukrainian National Deputies Coloniary Alexander Petrovich, Kosova Mikhail Vasilovich and Flood Michael Mikhailovich. Let us welcome them all and wish them all success. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Necepuruk Volodymyr Pavlovich into the membership of the People's Rule of Law Group. And the People's Deputy, Matthew Edward Leonidovich, is a member of the Ukrainian MP's faction. Dear colleagues! According to a group of national deputies, I am announcing the creation of an interfractional unification of Ukrainian national MPs, who signed more than 60 national deputies. Dear colleagues, according to Article 2.5.2 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Friday to announce requests, statements, messages, and suggestions from national deputies. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for applications, messages and suggestions, while I am in the absence of any objections to the announcement of the parliamentary requests that have come. People's MPs have been asked. Groups of National Deputies - Reznik, Pavluk, Nemirowski - to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information, Attorney-General of Ukraine on the illegal conduct of individual members of the National Council on Television, Broadcasting on the issue of the issue of language licenses in Odessa. Mikoli Kroutz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution of a decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve the direction of investment in the economic sectors at the expense of insurance reserves. Anatolia Orzhachovsky, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the implementation problems at the regional level of the Comprehensive Sugar Diabetes Program. Vladimir Yeshchenka - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights of the agricultural cooperative "Leskivski" in the Cherka region by officials of district, district and state administrations. Eugene Jovtjak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decree No. 999 of September 8, 1997, the rights of persons with disabilities in the area of car security. Alexander Pecklusenka is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failing to implement the laws of Ukraine, the basics of health legislation, and for amending and supplementing the Education Act of the Ukrainian RSR on the free use of residential services for medical, pharmaceutical and pedagogical workers living in rural areas. Vasil Onopenk is the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation by the Head of the Fund for Children's Organizations of Ukraine of current legislation. Alexander Zadrozhny - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of the negotiating process on the settlement of property issues of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics abroad. Anatolia Orzhachowski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of gasification of the population sites of the region of Borislav. Anatolia Grzezheva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the State Shareholder Company Titan in the city of Armenia of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Istwana Hajudša - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the simplified procedure for the processing of humanitarian goods received abroad. Alexander Feldman, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the implementation of measures aimed at ensuring the proper order of business. Jury Karmazin is with the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the use of emergency measures to prevent the threat of national security of Ukraine as a result of the terrible state of AIDS and HIV infection, on the organization of the fight against these diseases in Odessa and Odessa, which have the highest rates of disease. Mikli Noshchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the operation of the units of the local fire department. Yuri Shirka is the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vitaly Hajduk, on the inadmissibility of transferring the radiation monitoring system and the early notification of the gamma-1-2 radiation accident to the Department of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. Ivan Mihowich to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ignoring legislation in the construction of the Zacarpathian Forest in the territory of the Zakarpathian Forest, a rest base for the closed-circuit association of the Dynamo Football Club of the city of Kiev. Eugene Shewtuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund Act. Sergia Ivanova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the activities of the head of the agricultural production cooperative North Crimea in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in the investigation of Malovsky County Prosecutor's Office of the Kirovograd Region, on the circumstances of the death of the resident of Mala Viska. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation that arose in the territory of the Stepankian Rural Council of the Cherkas region as a result of a violation of current legislation by officials of the village council. John Mihowich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the complexity of the situation in Zakarpat, which is due to an increase in the leadership of the district executive with criminal elements. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation and prosecution of persons involved in the commission of crimes in Konotapi on 9 November 2003. Vladimir Bondar to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, for the violation of legislation by the officials responsible for the State Tax Inspectorate of Lucca. Vasil Onopenek to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the speedy criminal search of the Caver district department of internal affairs in Kiev. Andrija Polita to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the manifestations of unfair competition and the violation of the principles of entrepreneurial activity by a limited-liability company called Signal in Poltava. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against individual employees of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Lviv District Prosecutor's Office, the Drogby District Prosecutor's Office for the false response to requests, service negligence in the examination of the facts of abuse of office, for official falsification, the theft of state funds from the Director of the Long School of Drogbitsky district, the Lviv district, the failure to respond to a parliamentary appeal by the head of the Lviv district education administration. Eugene Hoornik to the Ministry of Internal Affairs on the disengagement of the Kaluzk District Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine to the city and district departments. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the use of educational institutions in the methodological practice of questionable recommendations of public organizations. Vasil Onopenk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the violation of human rights and freedoms and the current legislation of Ukraine as head of the civil, passport and migration departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Winnitsk region. Mikoli Onischuk to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine in response to the dissatisfaction with the request that the six - day school week be set aside in general educational institutions. Eugene Hoornik to the Ukrainian Ministry of Emergency Situations and Protection against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Construction of a Protective Flood Dam in the town of Zakernice, Rozhnetiv district, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv. Jury Karmazin and Stéphane Cloud to the Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime under the President of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of improper investigation by individual employees of the Lviv District Attorney's Office of the abuse of office, the excess of official authority, the large-scale theft of state property by the former Chief of Housing and Utilities of the town of Kaminka Buzek. Valery Akopian to the head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund on the loss of Ukrainian state property as a result of the purposeless and ineffective use of state property by the Open Stock Exchange in the city of Mikolayev. Vladimir Puzakov to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Affairs, in violation of article 45 of the Ukrainian Housing Code by the executive committee of the Smolin Village Council of the Maloviski district of Kirovograd. Mikoli Tomenka to the head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine for the verification of the use of budget funds by the National Television of Ukraine. Mikhail Kosova to the head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea regarding the situation of the Crimean diocese of the Ukrainian Autocal Orthodox Church. Anatolia Grzegova to the head of the Kiev District Council, the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, the head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities concerning the organization of tariffs for municipal services in the territory of the city of Krukovščina Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kyiv Region. Mikoli Karnauha to the head of the Lozov City Council for illegal blocking of access to documents necessary for the execution of parliamentary powers, as well as the artificial creation of obstacles to the work of the National MP. Mikoli Nosenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vasiliev, for the improper examination of the abuse of the position of office of the Montenegrin Transportation Prosecutor. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for a deliberate failure to execute a court decision by the authorities of the Luhansk region. Mikoli Karnauha to the head of the Health Administration of the Poltava Observatories on the immediate application of measures to prevent the closure of the district hospital in the village of Rashovka Gadjatsky district of Poltava and to restore the operation of the district hospital in the village of Melecha in the region of Poltava. All requests received have been made. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Before we move on to the performances, I'd like your attention. This morning at the Conciliation Council, we were discussing proposals by the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party to vote ad hoc today and to consider amending the Ukrainian Tax Act with comments from the President of Ukraine. This document is in order of the day, so I ask that we vote today to consider it and make a decision. Please vote. Well, let's take a vote from the procedure. [[10:15:37]] For 221 Please proceed with the procedure. With the procedure, please, Vladimir Leschchenko. Now, then Pinzenic Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u2	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, yesterday's faction of the Agrarian Party made a mistake in adopting the budget and cut it down like it always does, the agricultural sector of the economy. Actually, the question is right today, but once again, I'm saying it's because of the agrarian factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u3	Please, Victor Pinzenik. Not all at once, dear colleagues. Victor Pinzenik, then Alexander Frost. I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! There's a big request not to do the ad hoc procedure. I want to inform you and the citizens that yesterday's budget law is full of tax nonsense. Yesterday, VAT was introduced for medicine. Yesterday, a tax was introduced on the added cost of agrarian exports. Yesterday, 20 percent were raised for education and medicine. Yesterday, 20 percent of the housing tax was introduced. Yesterday, VAT was introduced for transport by buses, trams, and trolleybuses. So there is a request, we need to seriously review the rules of the law and correct those mistakes that could block the Ukrainian economy tomorrow. Because this law is not the only problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u5	Alexander Frost. Then, I see, Yuri Carmazin. Then Roman Zvarič and Turkinov, and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u7	Ah, Boyko, I see. I see, I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u8	I'm asking for your attention. What they've done is one thing, they need to be corrected. Corrections are possible, especially with regard to the agricultural sector. And I fully support the need to include in today's agenda a positive vote. But notice, we've been doing this for almost a week in normal mode, and I mean not because of the way the Rules are now, but because we've voted every day. So there's a proposal, there's a draft regulation, by Adam Martinyuk, about changing the Rules in that part to vote every day. Let's vote it out now, and remove the ad-hoc problem, and immediately consider the agrarian sector. I ask you to put this question to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u9	Please, Yuri Carmazin, I see a microphone. Everybody's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u10	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yesterday there was a betrayal of national interests by a majority that called itself that. And it's not about the agricultural factions today, the farmers got the village just like the whole state did yesterday, all the factions of the majority. So I just want us, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to ask and formulate the right questions. And they didn't say it out loud. The question is whether to change the Rules today or to apply the rules of the Ad-hoc Rules. Here's the question. But it must be prepared. The question has not yet been prepared. They didn't hand out anything. What might be the vote? 4000p2, which was adopted yesterday, is a purely government decree. I mean, yesterday the Donies showed that they had dropped and cheated on all the deputies who had made promises in the districts except cash. It went through the iron yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u11	Thank you. Roman Zvaric. I see. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u12	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, the so-called proposal of the Agrarian Party faction that you just put to the vote, you had no right to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u13	Why?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u14	Even if it is not provided in writing, it does not have a registration number. The question was not addressed at the Conciliation Council. However, the question did not go away; it did not get the required number of votes. So in order to get back to that question, you need to make at least a few procedural decisions. First of all, we need to make a decision that we're going back to the question that's already failed. The other one. You should have just made a so-called proposal, but just after it is written, in accordance with the Rules, it will have an appropriate registration number that it does not have. And just after that, you'll be able to make changes to the ad hoc regime. If this is not done,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u15	Thank you. The Turks, please. The Turks, then Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The opposition is ready to correct the nonsense that the majority voted yesterday. But we demand that this be done within the limits of the Rules. We can't keep improvising in the hall. We no longer understand what document regulates what is happening in the Supreme Council. This is the first time. Secondly, when we want to vote on Tuesday and Thursday, as envisaged by the changes that took place in the Supreme Council, we support the proposal by Frost and ask Adam Martinyuk to vote on the daily vote. And then you won't have any questions about how fast decisions are made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u17	Boyko, please, "Regions of Ukraine." We're moving on to a discussion, dear colleagues. Now he's the head of the Regulatory Committee and we're going to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u18	Boyko, the faction for Ukraine. I, Vladimir Mihajlovich, strongly request that we vote on Decree 4,000-1, but not on agriculture, but on how we considered it before yesterday. Since it concerns not only peasants, it concerns all Ukrainian producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u19	Mikhail Dobkin. I see, I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I agree with some deputies that we have not been prepared for the vote, so I will once again ask to support the agrarians in this regard, because yesterday, aside from the budget, the financing of political parties from the budget has been voted on. And what do we do? We punish peasants, and we finance political parties. I think it's the tip of cynicism. Therefore, I propose to support the agrarians and to support the changes they are asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u21	Yes, Catherine Vaschuk, later. Well, it's going to be a discussion. Dear colleagues, Catherine Vaschuk, then head of the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Everyone who is speaking today understands very well that it is not the agrarians that are to blame, namely, the agrarians, who are passing bills that go so hard every time in the hall. I am deeply grateful to those factions who support Law 3022 in their time. They were factions of Communists, and socialists, and BUT, and most of them, and our Ukrainians. There were 307 votes. This law at that time was committed by the President, as we added to it a number of norms that he considered to be premature, which were introduced. But the basic idea of continuing the tax on the added value remained. That is why we are not introducing any novels today. This law is in the order of the day. This is a vote on the President's proposals, so we're not in violation of the Rules. It's included in the agenda. And let's just move away from politics. Support me, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u23	Thank you. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Then Pehota. And let's figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u24	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues. I've already talked to you yesterday about how we should end this practice of organizing Parliamentary work by faking the Supreme Council Rules. I can see we're not doing that. Because we talked about this yesterday, today we continue to do what we did yesterday. So we're going to continue with the practice that leads to one: blocking the work of the entire parliament? I don't think we can do that. As for the position of the Communist faction. I want to say we can support Project 3022, I repeat, 3022 today and now, but only if it's put together with a project by the People's MP Adam Martinyuk to change the Rules concerning the holding of plenary sessions in the legislative regime and to make decisions on them every day, i.e. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. Thank you. But first to put to the vote Adam Martinyuk's draft ruling -- please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u25	Vladimir Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I was one of those national deputies who was firm against Friday’s vote. I was even the initiator of a law that changed one of the decisions that was made on Friday. However, the meeting of the Standing Committee decided that I was wrong and I agreed. So I think let's actually go with logic. I would ask the village to pay the added value of not doing political things, not making bills, but actually, who spoke so fervently yesterday for supporting the peasants, today to vote unanimously in favour of the decision made by the agricultural faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u27	Baranovsky. Not all of them, at least one of the factions. Baranowski, then School and that's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. First. I support the proposal made by Alexander Moroz regarding the support of the Adam Martinyuk bill to vote every day. And second, I want to say the following. Yesterday, the agricultural faction of peasants practically fell on the political panel and betrayed the interests of peasants. And it happened yesterday as if no one had said anything. So we, the opposition, and we, the socialists, first of all ask the question: let's fix this nonsense, the betrayal that the Agrarian faction allowed yesterday, and vote on these laws that apply to differences in VAT for peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u29	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I also want to support the proposal made by Alexander Frost, asking the question that we really should vote every session, and I kept talking about it in speeches from the rostrum. Because without this mode of discussion and decision-making within a month, what happened was what happened. Yesterday, the Agrarian Party, the agrarian faction did not just betray the village, and it founded itself on impact, and so let it not now be insulted by the fact that it will be "be": both us and the peasants and all those who depend on the village. Now virtually everyone in Ukraine depends on the village. Because the prices of bread that are now can practically lead to a recurrence of hunger in 1932-33 years. The price of meat and so forth. So, of course, we need to support the village. But I'm going back to the agrarian faction. Don't frame the village, don't let the village be a hostage to political interests, because six people didn't vote in the agrarian faction yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues! With respect to Bill 4000-1. We at the Conciliation Council this morning agreed that during the week we are working on this bill government along with the Committee on Budget and Finance and Banking. On the following Tuesday, we make an agreed decision so that we can consider it. I'm asking for your attention and your support. To vote on the application of the ad hoc regulation to two bills: the first 3022 are agrarians and the second 2584 are amendments to the Supreme Council Rules. Please vote. Martinyuk project. And then we'll vote separately. Vote, please. To vote. [[10:30:45.]] For 275 Decision taken. Now I'm betting on the vote on. Dear colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. I want to remind all the national deputies again that this morning at 9 a.m. we held a meeting of the Conciliation Council and agreed to consider the issue of 3022, as mentioned by Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk. Now there's an offer that we've also discussed at the Conciliation Council on the draft Supreme Council ruling number 2584. [[This was carried by Peter Poroshenko, who represented the faction "Our Ukraine"]] In line with these suggestions, I put it to a vote and we made a positive decision to look at these two documents and make the appropriate decision. Now, according to the order of arrival, I'm going to be the first to vote on the 2584 draft. This is a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend article 3.2. 1 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine And then we're going to look at 3022. No objections? I'll bet. Mikola Janovich, is it your business not to vote? Dear colleagues! I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 2584 on the amendment to article 3.2. One of the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We discussed it. This is the Martinyuk People's Deputy's Project. Please vote. [[10:35:19]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. For reasons, please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our constituents! I want to talk about what just happened in the Supreme Council Hall. On a proposal that would help make the work of our nation’s Supreme Legislative Authority more effective, most so - called presidents did not support the draft decree made by Adam Martinyuk. You and all that talk about what someone wants to do better for the state, to improve the entire legislative process. And the second thing I wanted to say. How double morale among the members of the Agrarian Party, to whom they like, should be hurt for the fate of agriculture in particular, and not now vote in favour of a project aimed at improving the work of the Supreme Council. And, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in the end. When we're done with the practice that factions will rule from the government's bed, we'll give teams how to vote. It's just a shame, it can't be in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u33	Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u34	Lucenko, Ukrainian Socialist faction. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, since it has gone so far that farmers are very eager to get away from yesterday's vote by which they are destroying the Ukrainian village, then we insist that on Tuesday's re-voting of the minimum wage, the results of which were forged by you, and the President signed a decree on a law that was not voted on in the hall. Then let us return to the question of the normal functioning of the Ukrainian village. If not, do not let the agrarians complain about someone because they made their own black choices yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u35	Thank you. Now let's follow the procedure. You noticed that I voted in favour of Adam Martinyuk's proposal. Now it's Law 3022. Please, from where you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u36	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to inform you that this law does not, unfortunately, solve the problems of the village that have arisen in connection with the adoption of the State Budget Act. Because there's another rule in the law that introduced the first-to-twenty-fourth group export tax. What will this turn out to be for the Ukrainians?? The nonreimbursement of VAT will mean that the export price will be the same and the difference will be made by the Ukrainian producers in relation to this tax. And this bill doesn't solve the problem. So we want or we don't want to, we have to go back to the norm that was voted yesterday, because otherwise we're going to beat the village. And that's the problem with the budget law you voted on yesterday. Thus, this law does not eliminate discrimination against Ukrainian peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u37	Alexander Frost. Then Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I see we have no mutual trust. That's why many ineffective votes. If we're going to meet each other, to meet the needs of, say, the Ukrainian village in this case, we have to make all the arrangements. And so it turns out that let's do it the way we need to do it, and then we each vote our own. That's not supposed to happen. That's why I have an offer like this. The bill, it really doesn't solve all the problems, as Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik said. But he's making some kind of progress towards solving them. Then let's say in the first reading, this project. And let's not look at it any further. In the second reading, we will consider voting together. And the minimum wage, and the law 4001, and so on. It's about content. And by procedure, I would ask the Deputy Prime Minister, sitting here in the hall, not to make a vote. We've never had such a thing in our life that decrepitism goes off the government stand. It's not supposed to go anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u39	I ask all government officials to leave the government bed and go do their jobs. As long as I am the Head of Parliament, I need no guidance. Let's go do your business. I don't come to the government or rule how to vote in the government. And please, don't be ridiculous. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u40	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Agrarian farms are as guilty as you, peasants, as we were born peasants, and we can be manipulated. To manipulate the Rules, to manipulate the budget. And we're only being blamed for one thing -- that we voted from the budget. Today, honourable colleagues, Viktor Mikhailovich said that this law does not solve all problems. In fact, it doesn't solve a lot of problems in the village, but it solves the basic cost-added tax, 20 percent stays with the villagers, it goes as a subsidy to the price for the products you sell. It's a basic law, it gives the village a billion dollars. The law or order that Vladimir Mikhailovich said, the VAT return to group 124 refers to more traders, those who sell our products exported abroad. They're getting their VAT back. But this will affect the cost of production, and we will maintain it in Law 4001.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u41	Thank you. It's dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! The bill now proposed for consideration is necessarily in accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, namely, the rules of the law, not the Rules, to conclude on the impact on the income or expenditure portion of the budget. According to the Explanatory Note to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget, which was voted by the majority yesterday, not only does the term of the zero-interest benefit for farmers of the added value tax continue to continue and 600 million dollars of VAT from peasants are placed on the income part of the budget. And so if the decision to continue the benefit is to continue, then from yesterday's law, we have to cut 600 million dollars out of the budget. Otherwise, the adoption of the draft law would not meet the requirements of the Budget Code. And we have no right to put it to a vote like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u43	Vladimir Leschenko, please. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u44	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. Now the Agrarian Party, well, is trying to save itself from the disgrace that they've been doing all the time and made with the village yesterday. They voted against the village yesterday. Today they want to take a small step to show how good they are. In addition, they do not say that the budget does not provide compensation for 800 million dollars of compulsory government insurance, pension insurance. Also, compulsory government insurance has not been provided for the congregations in case of unemployment and so forth. So there's a whole gap that's actually made by an agrarian faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u45	Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko. Now to vote, that's enough, it's already been stressed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I beg of you! I think you and I are going to end the year 2003 with disgraceful results in the agrarian sector. In the past 100 years, Ukraine has received 14.2 million grains of grain for the first time. A potential of 15 million for the following year. It's a bigger tragedy than the one being smeared in 1932-1933. There were 37 million -- now 48 million people. So the budget that was adopted yesterday is a national disgrace. As a result, 2.6 billion have been invested in the agricultural sector. We need to make minimum wage, at least 7.6 to 8 billion dollars to make it possible for machine construction to be at least 1.2 billion dollars, to make bread at least 2.5 billion dollars, and to do spring-field work 3.8 billion is fifty percent as needed. And if today the Agrarian Party is making these childish amendments, believe me, it's not a pain in the agrarian sector, which is a simulation of what it wants, so-called the Agrarian Party, which does not represent the interests of peasants today to rehabilitate themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u47	Matvienka, then Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u48	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you and, dear colleagues, all of you. I think we should think right now that Ukrainian wisdom "hurry -- make people laugh" should stop us. Yesterday we saw that as a result of just political ambitions we created. If we're going to try and make mistakes now, I think we're going to make even more trouble. We are all aware that the fiscal and tax situation is now balanced. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I address you and, Mikolo Janovich, you! Let's take it easy, we've got a week, we'll work out all the changes and changes we can make. This week, we'll balance what we can balance. Indeed, the village needs support. And now it's worth not saving the Agrarian faction, but really saving the village. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I propose that we assign a commission to the relevant committees: budget, finance and banking for Tuesday to make a negotiated decision with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u49	Thank you. We've made our decision. Gavrish, please. Raise your hands and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u50	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to return all of us to the 9th hour when all of us leaders of the factions of Parliament agreed to support this bill and there was no objection. The discussions we are having are fair and orderly, but we have decided with you to vote on this law, and we have all expressed our support for the need to adopt, not just in terms of economic relevance, but in terms of the moral and psychological climate. It's the one who dominates the country today. With regard to budget balance and balance, the government assumes these commitments. It's his problem to bring the budget to a level when it's balanced in income and expenditure. So I propose that we all stick to our commitments and give us the opportunity to vote and to put an end to this discussion now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u51	We've discussed it. Dear colleagues! Here in this law of the President's proposals are all taken into account. Is there a need to vote on them? Calm down. Therefore, obviously, we have every reason to vote on the adoption of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax in a new edition with proposals by the President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[10:50:33]] For 235 Decision taken. For reasons, please, Pinzenik. By factions, please give it to the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u52	Dear National Deputies! I want to inform you what you voted for. You voted in favour of the President's offer to cancel the VAT benefits for the farmers. I welcome you with another blow to the Ukrainian village.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! We've completed our consideration of the subject. Please sign up for the performance. Did you sign up? Then please explain. We've got 59 national deputies on board. We're taking 30 minutes. Please, Solomon. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u54	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Please pass the word to my colleague Anisimov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u55	Anisim, 30th constituency, Communist faction. A statement by the Communist MP in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sale of a package of shares of an open stock company called the Dniprov Metalworks Combine of the Name of Djerjinsky. The Dnieprov metalworking combination of the name of Djrjinsky takes a special place among the black metallurgy enterprises of our state. As part of the five most powerful metallurgical giants in Ukraine, he is essentially a monopolist in the production of individual types of metal products, including katana railway axles, prayer balls, girdle of his own larsene pie, pipework, and a large range of other types of rolling stock. In its time, the combination produced more than 50 kinds of products, which had great demand in both the internal and the external markets. For the city of Dniprodijnsk, the metallurgical combination is the only state-owned city-building enterprise. The local budget is almost half the cost that should come from the combination. Large amounts should come into the district and state budgets. The lives of nearly a quarter of the inhabitants of Dniprodjinska depend directly on the work of the metallurgical combination. The combination, in spite of its age and intensive exploitation over the last 10 years, when it worked without actually updating the core funds, is able to produce high-quality, competitive products. In doing so, work effectively and make huge profits that reach more than half a billion dollars a year. It is enough to say that in the past year 2002, the company’s profitability was 17 percent. The company’s core funds are worth more than 2 billion Soviets. That's over 10 billion dollars. It's built by the last convertible of a combination that now produces 2.8 million tons of steel per year. It costs 1.5 billion dollars, and the equity package, which is 98.8 percent, is estimated at only 87 million dollars. This is an almost 20 - fold underestimation made back in the last century in 1996. There are almost 20,000 people working on the combination. Under the terms of the competition, the work force can be eliminated within a year and the company itself can be shut down after three years. What further arguments are needed to prove that the privatization of the metal-market combination is the next stage of the sudden and hypocritical robbery of the people of Ukraine, the destruction of economic potential. In this situation, we, the Communist people's deputies, are strongly asking the Supreme Council, the President and the Government to stop the looting privatization of the Dnieprovsky Metallurgical Union of the name of Drysinski, as well as other strategic enterprises in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u56	Kostinyuk has the word. Prepare Tuckenko Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u57	"The People's Movement of Ukraine," Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Dear Chief! The recent situation in Ukraine has once again demonstrated convincingly that the regime of the clan will use all methods and scales to preserve itself near the leadership of the state. Events in Donetsk. The broken windows of the party offices, the riots in the Lviv cafe, the use of law enforcement agencies to fight political opponents, are all chains of one chain, woven by directors of a black pyar from a party clan, whose name ends with an "o." General government television channels that control famous oligarchs provide one-sided information, sow anxiety and mistrust. This television is so far away from the truth that it is difficult for normal - minded viewers to understand the limit to which one can manipulate the consciousness of people who do not have access to alternative sources of information. They even have a minimum wage of 205 better than a minimum wage of 237. It's even a figure of 205 is greater than 237. These manipulations are one goal -- to distract citizens from the urgent economic and social problems, including the rise in the price of bread, which for many of our fellow countrymen has become or is not the only food. The rise in prices for the most important food products is the result, not of a low crop, but of the inefficient activity of the government, which, instead of fully supporting market principles in agriculture, has been used by administrative authorities to date. Instead of improving the living conditions of a Ukrainian citizen, he is convinced of the need for a so - called political reform every day. The authors of this pseudoreform were so concerned about their citizens that they decided to elect a president in Parliament’s walls as representatives of the majority, who obediently followed orders from the Bank. In order to achieve the goal, the authorities have succeeded in contrasting the regions, triggering a conflict between the east and the west of our country. There is nothing to share between the eastern and western regions. They share the same feelings of increased concern for the authorities. But a demonstration of disregard for the governing regime of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine reached their highest level. We have a merit order to reward the governor for violating the 16 articles of the Criminal Code. We have the Order of Merit awarded to the governor for the embezzlement of young people, for the merger of young and underage gorillas, for the Nazi swastika on the streets of Donetsk, for the inflaming of international and inter-regional hostility, for the insolence of 17 diplomatic embassies at the airport. Leonide Danilovich! You know, the Georgian President is always not in Georgia, but he will always be remembered as a highly decent person, for his behavior and in 1989, at the end of the 1980s, and in 2003. And Georgian events showed the Ukrainian people the only right way to fight injustice, fight against evil, fight against falsehood.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u58	Please, Yvchenka. Prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u59	Alexy Ivchenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear friends, yesterday there was a cynical, shameful betrayal of Ukrainian agriculture. But it is painful that Ukraine’s one - name agrarian faction took part in this betrayal. And today, the agrarian faction, instead of making an application and getting out of the anti-national majority, continues to be cynical about the authorities. That is, a few minutes ago, a draft of the President's law was voted out, which provides for the lifting of the benefits to farmers. So I welcome this agrarian faction, continue to betray Ukrainian agriculture in that spirit. Thank you for your attention. And I give the word to my colleague Igor Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u60	Igor Ostash, "Our Ukraine." Dear friends! I would like to draw your attention to one problem that has to do with the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u61	Please give the rest of you two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u62	To a problem that has to do with the Constitutional Court. There are rumors that there is now a Constitutional Court sitting to solve the problem or to fly to our President for a third term or not. I would like to morally support our Constitutional Court and would like to quote you from the decision of the Russian Constitutional Court, which was adopted in connection with the presidency of Boris Yeltsin. Thus, a similar situation is practical. In 1991, Yeltsin was elected, and in 1994 the Constitution was adopted, and in 1996 Yeltsin again fought. Still, questions arose as to whether he would be on a third term. And here's what the Russian Constitutional Court accepted on this point: "The conduct of the interpretation of article 81," that is to say, "to stop in the absence of uncertainty in their understanding." Because, indeed, according to them, the President of the Russian Federation was in the run-up to the June-July 1996 elections, exercising his first term and was elected for the second consecutive term in 1996. This is how the Russian judges of the Constitutional Court decided. I think it was a very smart and balanced decision, and I think it will help our judges. And I would like to conclude by saying what happened after that. Russian President Boris Yeltsin, a few years after a serious illness finally came alive, he came to us in Ukraine, to Gutsulsk, to drink a somnolence, and he obviously succeeded. I'd like to do parallels, I'd like to wish our President the same mind as Boris Yeltsin, that he would wish him health, and that, really, after the end of his sentence, he would be able to drink the rump vodka peacefully and be healthy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u63	The word has a national MP, Hinzburg, to prepare for Rodion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! Hinzburg, 161st constituency, Communist faction. Against the backdrop of all the problems that today arise in the hall against the backdrop of budget adoption, the minimum wage that today will not allow people to live and other problems, especially those of peasants, is another problem that I wanted to sound and light up today. There is such outright abuse of the mentality of our people, especially of our young people, through television that promotes terror, murder, violence, pornography, which is damaging to the nation. And in view of what's going on, I'd like to address you on behalf of the Committee on the Age of Mercy against Violence and Terrorism. Ukraine is one more. including Ukraine as one of the largest countries in the European continent, there can be no side to the problem of combating international terrorism. It was after the events of September 11, 2010, that our nation initiated the consideration of this issue at the UN Security Council. In the context of a global anti-terrorist campaign, the Ukrainian public organization is initiating an all-U.S. campaign. And I'm addressing you: it's very obvious that in order to counter this extremely dangerous phenomenon, coordination of the efforts of all States as well as the public is necessary. There are almost no other countries in the world, no matter where they fly into the air, blown up by explosives, no explosions in public places, trains, stations, dwellings, no matter where airplanes and seamen are captured, hijacked, and killed by government officials, leaders, and children. The methods of terror, such as violence against peaceful, defenseless, and, most importantly, non-terrorist are horrendous. In doing so, the organizers of the terrorist attacks must ensure that the catastrophic consequences of the terrorist attacks are demonstrated in the media. Unfortunately, information services sometimes represent terrorist killers as noble rebels or guerrillas. But no killing of children and women and civilians can be justified. When we look at the terrible images, when we listen to reports of the death of people in different parts of the world, we're convinced that attacking innocent people is not courage, it's crime and sin. Courage is to protect your freedom, your children, your homeland. Dear national deputies, let the candle of hope be lit in these days and its flame be turned into the flame of faith. Let us give ourselves the word that we will be patient and wise. We ask to support our initiative to the presidents, the parliaments, the governments of the countries of the world, who are responsible for their states, the leaders of political parties. We're looking at media, journalists, cultural workers: look at your channels, theater repertoires, and at least these 20 days -- December 19th to January 7, 2004 -- exclude movies, broadcasts, exhibitions that carry terror, violence, terror, murder. Let our main goal be to plant seeds of good and humanism, to create a climate of stability, not to provoke social oppression by terrorist attacks. Even such a short period may allow you to remove part of the problem, strengthen social morality, and perhaps indicate the way forward in solving the problem. Because terror is a huge evil and a threat to every human being, regardless of the faith and color of the skin. That's why. Ladies and gentlemen, to this appeal, I hereby give my ruling to the Supreme Council, the draft decree and the Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the terrorist acts in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u65	Thank you. Rodionov conveys the word to the national deputy Solomon. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, people of Ukraine! My speech touches on Ukraine's unbiased United Nations hunger position in 1933 in Ukraine. The issue of hunger in the 33rd year is the theme of recent Ukrainian editions. One thing is surprising is why some of them have foreign experts as their main consultants. The President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, our foreign representations have taken a number of steps on this issue, have proposed at the level of the world society through the UN to recognize the famine of the year 33 as a famine and an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people. The recognition of the famine of the year 33 as a famine and an act of genocide by a number of parliaments of States in which the Ukrainian diaspora is traditionally influential from the descendants of former UPA soldiers who fled Ukraine after the collapse of the Brodas is the same fact, but this fact has some political discoloration by the outcry of class fighting and cold war, which has long since ended. And, attention, the main fact and the truth is that the UN did not support the Ukrainian side and in general limited itself to a joint statement by a number of states, including Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, Moldova and others, recognizing the famine of the year 33 of the tragedy caused by the then totalitarian regime. That's what it says. Agree that famine and genocide from Ukraine's proposal are quite different compared to the definition of hunger and tragedy, a joint statement by a number of nations at the UN. Is there not a situation surrounding this, a certain calculation in Ukraine’s foreign policy? If so, from whose application did this occur, why did this happen, and who is to blame? Meanwhile, almost all media outlets (?) Ukraine's joint statement by a number of States in the UN, with the submission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, twists and states that the UN has accepted a joint statement on famine in Ukraine. So let's face it, it's a deception, it's a deliberate misinformation, it's even a provocation by the media and the U.S.S.S.A. at a state level. I would therefore consider it appropriate to warn the U.S.S.O. of the inadmissibility of the practice of twisting and falsifying the official documents of the United Nations and the brutal deception of Ukrainian society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u67	Thank you. Turkinov gives the word to the national deputy Shkell. Prepare Greenevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u68	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to draw attention to an event that in its own time brought together all aspects of the Ukrainian opposition, and all aspects of the Ukrainian elite, which became a defense of the truth, have become a struggle against the evil that was then, is now common to all. Actually, three years ago, Alexander Alexander Moroz published the data collected by Lieutenant Colonel Melnichenko from this rostrum. I'd like all of us to be aware of what it is. Three years ago, from this rostrum, the truth was first heard about the existing regime, about who's leading it, about what he's saying, about how he's communicating with his environment, how he's planning, and how George Gongadze's murder was planned. Three years ago, it was first said that Georgia Gongadze was killed. Three years ago, Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz stressed that the names of the murderers should be named. And for three years, we've been hearing promises to investigate the case, over the three years, prosecutors are changing, and each of the new prosecutors is giving a guarantee that the case will be brought to an end. Prosecutors change, and the matter remains in place. The prosecutions are changing, and the participants of the March 9 events who were arrested during the protest against the abolition of the existing regime in the protection of national and social interests are still in prison. And that, despite the fact that amnesty was adopted in the walls of this Parliament, boys are still behind bars. And for 3 years, no one has answered what is the state of affairs in the investigation of the murder of George Gongadze, who was involved with the superiors. We don't hear an official answer. And when it comes to the prosecution's report, that question is avoided by categorical and eloquent silence. I finally want to know when and if the existing regime will be able to answer who is involved in the murder and not to say that the investigation is over, and eventually to bring the investigation to an end. And I, frankly, want to hear from this rostrum a report from the board of directors on matters related to the murder of George Gongadze. I want all of us to be witnesses of this report and finally learn the truth and be able to honor with this truth the memory of Georgia Gongadze, because remember that there is a mother, Georgia, who has been waiting for three years for what happened to her son. Who is to blame for his death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u69	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Greens. You're handing over Kosovo? Please, Mikhail Vasilovich. Prepare Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u70	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to thank everyone who greeted me today with my birthday, and since I have such a day, I have to speak very and very mildly. And so, speaking to you, my colleague Solomonine, I would ask you to leave the subject of famine at last. Trust me, you are thus demeaning the party you belong to. After all, the members of your party have long agreed that the famine has been and that it has had terrible consequences. Let's not press this ground as much as the U.P.A. soldiers do against society, because the gap today is not between the left-hand ones in the right-hand ones, the gap today lies between power and the defrauded, defrauded people. And you, first of all, should understand that. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that we had received very politically the 2004 State Budget. Indeed, I do, for I have a document that says that today there are five billion dollars worth of money in storage, as Azarov himself said, that they will distribute in an unknown way. Because there's no line in the budget how these costs are going to be distributed. So what we accepted yesterday. I think that if we follow the terminology of the Prime Minister, we have adopted the cost of the election campaign of President Yanukovic. Cocous of the election company! At the same time, it is not only in those five billion dollars, for it is said that there are even nine billion, but there are others. Yesterday, I was able to communicate with the miners. Very nice people, nice people, and I am glad that we have given them five billion dollars for their needs. But listen, the receivable for the mining sector is ten and a half billion. Azarov says that they have set off 300 million to pay off their arrears, and this debt is one billion three hundred million. So what are we talking about? And finally, there's only one last sentence. With 316 votes and me, we beat the President's veto to support the State Bookstore. All right, intelligent colleagues, the reading Ukrainian audience, none of this is going to happen. Because in the budget, the act of this law is suspended. This is the budget I called it, the cost of the presidential election campaign for President Yanukovic, and we accepted it yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u71	The word has a national deputy, Semenyuk, to prepare for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u72	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear voters, dear friends, all those who came to the walls of the Supreme Council yesterday! First of all, I want to thank you for your civil position. All those who came from the city of Kiev and came from faraway areas to support us, the deputies of the Supreme Council. I want to thank the electorates of my native Russian district, and my teacher, Valentina Zachariah, who, looking at all the bans, came here. Valentino Zachariac, thank you for teaching me, and for your support, for supporting me here in Parliament. I want to thank all those who came to Parliament for not the money, as the miners did. And they came for their civic position. I'd like to ask you a favor. Explain to the people at each of the locations that you've seen here, what you've heard. And what was done yesterday in the session room. The 400 million debt under article 57 of the Education Act, which was to be compensated, was taken away by the Committee of Stanislaw Mikolayenka, our socialist, who prepared this proposal. You're not getting any money now, teachers of honor. Doctors, physicians, intelligence, 18 percent of the salary. This was the result of the budget yesterday. Rural intelligence is going to get rid of all the supplements in general. I'm not talking about drugs becoming 20 percent more expensive. Any offer for a medical supplement is also taken accordingly. The faction of the Socialist Party, which has taken a firm stand against such a heist budget, wants to say the following. First. That we're going to go to every population point, to explain to people how representatives of the so-called majority and the government voted for this budget to go, in fact, to Mr. Yanukovic's electoral campaign. As head of the Special Supervisory Board, I want to complement Mr. Kosov. There is also an extension of the facilities for privatization. And for privatization for nothing! Because today, the Cabinet of Ministers is doing everything they can not to index and collect objects for cash. The example is Patchpapyprom. That's what you said. I want to continue with our Ukrainian Book. That a 12 million - dollar - dollar - dollar - dollar - dollar object is taken for six million dollars. This is exactly what will go to Mr. Yanukovic's electoral campaign. That's why I want to talk to the voters. Dear friends, you've seen how difficult it has been for you today under the walls of Parliament and for us here. So I ask you to run to every locality and we will come to you, explain to the people that today’s regime is destroying the nation of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u73	Please, National Deputy Boki is passing it on to Baranov. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u74	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The events of the last days in Parliament show that the authorities have lost all sense of measure and are acting automatically or at random. But as always, it is thoughtless and cynical about its people. I would like to remind you that in this room, at first, an aggressive, obedient majority, on the direction of Banking Street and active from the Cabinet of Ministers, have demolished the attempt by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine to accept the minimum wage of 305 dollars that has been proposed since July 1, 2004. Later, however, those Bolsheviks of the Supreme Council’s constituency made millions of Ukrainian citizens hungry for winter. They repealed the previous law, where the minimum wage was 237 dollars since December 1, 2003. And they reduced it to 205 bracelets. We all see as a result of the powerlessness that has gone down sharply in the price of bread, on the basic types of food, on industrial goods. I'd say there's been a real hand-cleaning epidemic, and above all, poor people. Let's count again, I already did this yesterday: on a minimum wage of 185 dollars in May, citizens could buy 200 loaves, and today, on 205 they can only buy 128. Look, there's a big difference. Who made the most of this decision? Yesterday, 20 percent of VAT was adopted, VAT cancelled on medicines, and drug benefits cancelled. It was said today that happened in the agrarian sector. I would say that the amoeba position of the leader of the Katherina Vaschuk faction, who is in pain for the village and, in fact, he is buried, in fact, the position of the head of the Agrarian Kirilenko Party, which today's vice-premier, he made a deal to keep his chair, gave up today all positions concerning the peasants. The faction of the united social democrats made quite a contribution. I would like to emphasize that everyone behind the walls of Parliament is aware that esdeks literally rush into the ranks of their party of teachers, medics, representatives of other state organizations and institutions, calculating their efforts to use administrative resources in the next election. And they vote in parliament to keep these people hungry, because it is known that the hungry are more easily manipulated. The socialists believe that the latest events show that Kabminu Yanukovic and his first deputy, Azarov, act like a real kamikaze, and even more precisely, they seem not to know what they're doing. From our point of view, they are pushing the situation closer and closer to the Georgian version when the people of all the present - day rulers are forced into the sun with their chairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, one minute, Melniczuk. Melniczuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleague, dear Mikhailo Vasilovich Kosov! I want to talk to you, I'm here, we're difficult with you. You are a very experienced and wise parliamentarian. Mikhail Vasilovich, I applauded you in this room when you spoke from the rostrum, and I would say, historically, "Dear Communists, let's forget our arguments for some time. Let's do everything together to change this criminal power." I applauded you because I understood the consolidation of our efforts. Again, I turn to all wise ones. Let us really not blame each other: that Solomon said what the other said. The man said what he had to say. Finally, we need to know that we have the only goal is to change the system of power, to make political reforms for the people of Ukraine. Here's the main thing we have with you, ladies and gentlemen. This is our historical one. We have to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u77	Thank you. Applications, announcements, proposals completed. Let's move on to today's agenda. There's a draft of the Sevastopol City Act. Registration numbers: 3187, 3187-1 and 3187-2. Reported a government project by Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Get Verni Dubov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u78	Mr. Chairman, the country's distinguished national deputies. The draft Act on the City of Sevastopol was drafted by the government in accordance with the requirements set out in the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides that two cities in Ukraine have special status, and the specificities of local self-government and executive power should be defined by separate laws. In addition, the causes of certain forms of regulation of the exercise of managerial functions and of the organization of local self - government are challenged, particularly with regard to Sevastopol, by the fact that there are certain geopolitical features, the historical features of this city, as well as the economic ones. And the fact that this city is based on the naval forces of Ukraine and is the base of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. The bill proposes a number of major changes in contrast to today’s urban governance model. The first is to change the administrative-territorial division of the city itself. Today the city of Sevastopol is not unique in this, but it is a demonstration of how we do not have a system of general administrative division, because within the city there are villages, villages and other cities that are part of this city that do not meet any legal standards today and are not the best way to organize governance in the city. The project proposes to change the situation and divide the city of Sevastopol into areas and to organize an organization of authority in this city according to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the basic laws on local self-government and on urban government. The project also foresees certain features of Sevastopol’s functions, including some differences in the city’s budget approach, its formation, and its cost. This is also true of the way local self - government should function, and how local self - government officials should be elected. In particular, it is proposed that the election of council leaders be held directly by members elected by direct vote, certainly in both the city and the city of Sevastopol itself. This model was used earlier in Ukraine, and it is still used in many cities, especially where cities are of special importance. We've even looked at a particular model right now that's somewhat consistent with the individual nuances of the existing model of today's Ukrainian government organization, in France there are cities that have the same approaches that are proposed in this law, in Marseilles, in Lyon that's the same thing. With regard to the administration, the law proposes to establish the presence of the Sevastopol City Administration, which is provided for directly in the Constitution, as well as the district government, which is not enshrined in the Basic Law, but where it is stipulated that they can be implemented as features of the exercise of executive power in this city. It's no longer a legal issue, it's a question of political relevance, it's the right to decide the people's deputies, how they're going to consider it necessary, or whether they're going to implement such a model, or, more precisely, to preserve to some extent, and then, after the restructuring, implement a new management model in Sevastopol. The options outlined are also how executive authorities in the city and local self - government can change. In order to take into account a change in the choice of officials, there are also special guarantees for their sure work, and the removal procedure is different from the selection procedure and requires a different number of votes and other regulatory approaches. It's practically all of the features that are foreseen, not counting what is suggested that all of the rules of this law be fully applicable after a state-wide issue on the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine has been resolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u79	Thank you. The questions are, I see, desirable. Please sign up. Let's take three minutes. Lighten up. Please, Shevchuk Sergei. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u80	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear Mr. Reporter! I work for the European Integration Committee, so I'm said to be interested in the relevance of European charters to the local self-government of the bill. Furthermore, according to article 140 of part 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the population of any city, including Sevastopol, has the right to exercise local self-government both directly and through city councils and their executive bodies. In your opinion, do you find such a structure of authority and local self - rule somewhat strange in the Crimean Authority? Crimea has its own Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the status of the city of Sevastopol is somehow approaching the status of the district government, not the local government. Because the proposed bill deprives local self - government of the right to form its own executive organs, thus transferring the executive functions of self - government to the authorities of the state. Here's my question. Does this bill of the European Charter on Local Self - Rule fit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u81	Thank you for the very important question. As far as the Constitution you referred to is concerned, it is perfectly consistent. Even the article you quoted continues to speak separately of two cities in Ukraine — the city of Kiev and the city of Sevastopol, where specific features can be provided for by special law. That's why there are no differences. Specialities, namely, the exercise of local self - rule and executive power. And as for the European Charter, I'm not going to be categorical here, because there's really a discrepancy, and here we have to figure out to what extent you can view Sevastopol as a common city and to what extent you can view it as a military base of 2 armed forces. But there's a problem here, and I think let's say that the proposed model can be improved.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u82	Please, Kostinuk. Get Verni Dubov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u83	Please give the floor to the deputy of Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u84	Yuri Klukkowski, People's Movement of Ukraine, faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". Dear Alexandre Volodymyrovich! The Cabinet of Ministers' Bill provides for the introduction of it after it has become effective with the Law on the Territorial Administration. And at that, it predicts the loss of two cities, a village, and the four villages of status that they have today. However, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for any action such as loss of city, village, or village status. Nor is it stated in the law that when this law becomes effective, Inckerman, Balaklava, Kacha ceases to exist in cities, villages, or four villages in villages. In this regard, how will this be done in practical terms? Who will deprive them of the status they have today and the self - government they have today under the law on local self - government? Because I fully agree that Sevastopol as a whole, not as a base of two, but as a foreign military fleet, cannot have the self - control that Kyiv has today. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u85	With regard to the problem of depriving cities of status, you will certainly do so, that is, the national deputies who can do so by passing the law that is proposed. As far as the Ukrainian Constitution is concerned, the basic law of our State does not in any way provide for the possibility of having an administrative uterus that is. The city that's in the city and there's a village and a village in the same city, it's far beyond the limits and 140, 133 articles of the Constitution, very far away. I mean, this is an anomaly that needs to be corrected. And they have to be exactly the boundaries where there's a city where it ends, where its division is, what it's divided by: whether it's divided into areas, like other cities, or then into a separate territory. Here is the city of Inkerman, here is the city of Balaklava, and the city of Sevastopol is in a completely different city then. So this needs a clear, clear approach. The exclusive authority to solve this problem belongs to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm sorry about the administration. Yes, we suggest that this decision take place after the law on an administrator has become effective, so that they do not make special exceptions in separate territories, but the general approaches that will be approved in this room to be designed for this city.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u86	Time's up, but I've already announced Verni Dubov. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Vladimirovich. Virnidoubov, Sevastopol. Yesterday, the budget was adopted and, thanks to the Budget Committee and the Government, proposals were adopted by representatives from Sevastopol to compensate for the loss of city budget revenues from the Black Sea fleet. But this has to be done heroically to our city council members, the city administration, to make sure that they are actually compensated by the Government. Would you not agree with us on how it is stipulated in our draft law and in the draft law of Yushchenka that the specifics of Sevastopol's budget should be added here? Because your draft, which represents Governments, has the title “Specificities of the budget of the city of Sevastopol”, but there are no specifics there, but there is simply a reference to the fact that the budget of Sevastopol is formed in the same way as other regional ones, according to such articles of the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u88	Thank you for the important question, and thank you for the full understanding of the diversity of the legislators. In this case, I am presenting a draft law for a collective entity, where there may be some differences between my personal approaches and what has been adopted as the subject of the legislative initiative, and I have taken the government. And the second. What's relevant to the specifics of the budget. I think that there are absolutely right positions in other projects and in preparing for final adoption in the second reading of this draft law, there is an opportunity to make a full decision to find an acceptable solution for both the inhabitants of Sevastopol and the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bill No. 3187-1. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, reports. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u90	Verni Dubov Ivan, Sevastopol. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, dear Sebastopols! The name of the city of Sevastopol was derived from the Greek "Sevastos" - "a city worthy of worship". The name of the city has justified its heroic history three times: during the Crimean War of 1854-55, during the Homeland War and today, in 1992-97, peacefully dividing the Black Sea fleet and resolving the territorial dispute without the bloodshed of the two brotherly peoples of Ukraine and Russia. So why can't a city with such a rich history achieve its status for more than seven years under the basic law? What else must the Sebastopols do to bring this to their attention? Why do not even Parliamentary officials agree with the Constitution that Sevastopol is an autonomous territorial and administrative unit, inseparable from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea? And now, in fact. Today, Parliament is working really hard to make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, and the last step is to adopt the definition of the special status of Sevastopol. Bill on the City of Sevastopol No. 3180-7-1, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Vernidub and Rabbit, was approved and supported by representatives of the City Council of Sevastopol, public organizations and city dwellers. Because with the adoption of the law, they expect to create legal conditions for Sevastopol's activities in accordance with the Constitution, which will contribute to the stability and sustainable development of the city as one of the most important cities in southern Ukraine. The purpose of our bill is to restore self-government in the city, taking into account the special status of the city of Sevastopol, which is based on its historical characteristics, economics and the fact that it is based on the territory of the Ukrainian Navy and the temporary stay of the Black Sea Navy of the Russian Federation. The power-sharing system proposed by our bill is aimed at preserving the constitutionally established rights and freedoms of self-government and establishing a balance of power between the state administration and the territorial community. Local self - government in Sevastopol is proposed to comply with Ukrainian laws on local self - government and articles of the Constitution of Ukraine that define Sevastopol as a place with special status. That is, the city’s inhabitants choose by direct vote a city council that creates an executive committee. The executive committee exercises its powers according to the law on local self - government and the European Charter of Local Self - Government, which, by the way, is ignored by other bills. According to the second part of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the territorial community of Ukraine, on the basis of a general, equal and direct right to vote by secret ballot, elects for 4 years the respective village, village and city head of Sevastopol, who is headed by an executive committee whose mandate is defined by article 42 of the Law on Local Self-Government. In doing so, Sevastopol’s local self - rule includes the participation of the city’s head in the consideration of the placement of state - owned subjects in the city, the introduction of draft projects by the ministers, and participation in meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers with the right to advise on matters relating to the city. The execution and other executives of the city council, subordinated to the landowners and the city’s head, authorized the authorities of the local government to exercise their own authority over the management of property belonging to the city’s municipal property and to perform other functions related to the administration of the city’s agriculture, and the City Administration, subordinated to the President of Ukraine, carried out organizational and control functions on behalf of the state at the local level and functions related to the special status of the city of Sevastopol. The Law 3187-1 is fully supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, because I quote the conclusion that it is in line with the constitutional principles of local self-government, while at the same time reflecting the characteristics of the status of Sevastopol, which is referred to in the Constitution. The main difference between the bill and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the bill of National Deputies of Yashchenka and others, by the way, acknowledged by the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, is that it corresponds by 100 percent to the democratic norms proclaimed by them by the Constitution of Ukraine and the established European Charter of Local Self-Government. I want to thank you for drafting legislation on Sevastopol of the People's Deputies of the previous call by Zachosov Vadim Alexanderovich, the National Deputies of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, the National Deputies of the Sevastopol City Council, the Sevastopol City Administration, all the Sevastopols who have contributed to the drafting of the Sevastopol City Hero Bill. Dear colleagues, your support for this bill will be assessed by the Sevastopols as a huge step by the Supreme Council towards the development of the democratic principles and mechanisms of the Ukrainian State. Because only an effective law on the city of Sevastopol will allow it to be revived again and in a short time to improve the lives of every sevastopol. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u91	Thank you. Baranowski, a question. Sign up then. Please explain. Three minutes. Bubbles. Prepare Hinzburg. Well, please, Barranowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, would you please tell us how this law protects the city of Sevastopol in such a way that no one in our brotherly Slavonic states would question the fact that this city is not Ukrainian? That's the first question. The second question. What is the need in Sevastopol to conduct local self - government elections under another law and under the general law of elections to local self - government? And the third. What is the need in the city of Sevastopol to continue implementing some incomprehensible government when there is a proposal for local self - government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u93	Thank you for asking. Three questions, essentially the first question, so that no one will look at the Ukrainian city of Sevastopol. I'll tell you what, as an active participant in 1992-97 events before the signing of a large-scale treaty between Ukraine and Russia, that the issue of territorial dispute arose in Sevastopol, but 1992-93 and a little bit in 1994, were indeed when the mayor of Moscow Luzkov came to Sevastopol and said, "Sevastopol was, eat and be a Russian city!".. Yes, indeed, such statements caused active rallies, demonstrations, and other events. However, after signing this contract, after 1997, I'll tell you: Sevastopol of those years and Sevastopol now are two different things. After signing the treaty, there is virtually no interference with Ukraine’s territorial integrity. The city of Sevastopol, its inhabitants, I believe, is able to choose by equal and general right by secret balloting the city's head. And that's really going to be the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u94	Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u95	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Hinzburg, 161st District. I'm happy to ask you a question because I want to be proud of something in my country, and the town of Sevastopol is like the pride of our country, and it's Soviet, and now, and the people who are wonderful live. But I have a question for you. Your bill differs from the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and, among other things, the following points are not clear to me: What do you want to do with it? To sign the agreements, Appendix 1.2 to the international agreement on the options for the division of the Black Sea fleet from 28 May 1997, with the right to make changes and additions to them, is the first. The other one. "Sign and terminate leases of land for lease to the Russian Federation, as well as other authorizations. Give me an explanation, please, how can you do this with the authority of the city?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u96	Thank you. I mean, in the town of Sevastopol, nowhere else in the city, all these problems are related to the formation of the Black Sea fleet. I mean the delegated powers of the government, of the Cabinet of Ministers of what is possible -- whether it's a special commission or a mayor of the city or a state administration -- of the board of administration. And I think it would be faster, more efficient to solve the question of how the Black Sea fleet is based. Yes, and I'm talking about delegated powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u97	Thank you. Please have a seat. Soon, every city will have international contracts. The bill is presented by the national deputy Green Igor Alexiyovich, please for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u98	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The draft Law on the Special Status of the City Hero of Sevastopol, which I represent on this rostrum, provides for the implementation of article 133 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which Sevastopol has a special status, which is determined by the individual law of Ukraine, as well as by article 118, 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for specialities, i.e. differences in the exercise of executive power and local self-government in Sevastopol. The drafters, writing out the specificities of executive power and local self-government in Sevastopol, came from the fact that Sevastopol's special status was due, first of all, to the deployment of the Ukrainian naval forces and to the temporary stay of the main base of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in accordance with the Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Status and Conditions of residing in the Russian Federation's Black Sea Fleet in Ukraine. It's different. In fact, there are three cities — Sevastopol, Balaklava, Inckerman, a village of Kacha, four rural councils — in Orliny, Ternivka, the Highlands, and Andrijavca. There are 29 villages in the area of these territorial administrative units. I mean, it's actually a micro-district and the system of power has to match the principles and functions of regional self-government. I also remind you that among the legislatively established principles of local self - government in Ukraine, the principle of bringing local and national interests together is a special one. This principle is based on our bill, which we have in the sections on the characteristics of local self - government and executive power in Sevastopol, which has been proposed to legalize the existing system in Sevastopol for about 10 years now of local self - government and executive power, which has been tested at times with the expansion of the rights of territorial communities located in the area of Sevastopol. This is not only about the territorial community, but also about the rights of the city of Sevastopol. By analogy with the existing system in Ukraine, the draft law proposes the following power dualism. The Head of the Sevastopol City, in fact the Regional Council, is elected by the council members and the head of the Sevastopol City Administration, and this is, accordingly, the legal analogy, the head of the district government of Ukraine. [[It's a legal analogy with the heads of district councils.]] The local self-government system offered by us in the city of Sevastopol includes: 1. District communities are located in the town of Sevastopol, Balaklava and Inkermana, the village of Kacha and the territorial community of the villages of Andriyuk, Orline, Ternivka and Verhnosadov; 2. Districts in the town of Sevastopol, town, village and village councils; 3. the executive boards of these councils; 4. Self-organizational bodies; 5. Sevastopol City Council; 6. the head of the city council; and 7th performer on board. Since the local government exercises executive power in Sevastopol, the head of the city government is appointed by the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the requirements of article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution. And the city council chooses its head from its own composition, which is in accordance with this bill, which is a special feature of the exercise of executive power in Sevastopol. In particular, I remind you that under article 1 of the proposed bill, following the conclusion of the agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the status and conditions of the Black Sea Russian Federation fleet in Ukraine, and the implementation of comprehensive measures to demilitarize the city of Sevastopol, the system of executive power and local self-government in Sevastopol is subject to legislative review. The project largely takes into account the wishes and proposals of Sevastopol City State Administration, the Inckerman City Council, the positive experience of draft laws introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of the past, takes fully into account the situation of the Ukrainian Budget Code and is organically related to the requirements of the Constitution with the Ukrainian laws on local government administrations and on local self-government in Ukraine. I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in order to protect the sovereignty of territorial integrity, as well as to ensure the rights of local communities to local self-government and, given that a dualist model of local self-government has been adopted in Ukraine as one combination of social, state-owned concepts, understanding that the situation in Sevastopol requires strong government, will adopt our bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u99	Thank you. Once again, those who want more are recorded. Light up, please. Yes, Gunner, prepare the Masterpiece.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u100	Dear reporter! Of course, this project contains a rather complicated system of local self - government and government. But it does not eliminate the main contradiction that exists in the power of Kiev and Sevastopol, the distinction between the city’s head and the head of the administration. The conflicts that are now taking place with the person of Omelchenka in Kiev are well known. In the bill that you have proposed, they may actually have a seat on the territory of the Sevastopol City Council. Would it not be appropriate to take the lead in the future constitutional reform, and these commissions will now bring together the elected city chief to be the head of the administration, and there will be no controversy on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u101	Your Honor, thank you for asking. And just this analogy that you've done with Kiev, where there's both the heads of the administration and the heads of the territorial community, there are no contradictions that can actually arise. In fact, in our law, I think there is a serious solution to this problem. And I want to remind you that we are actually talking today about the territorial or regional self-government that is governed by this law, and the Act on Local Self-Government, which is being implemented in parallel by the territorial communities of both the cities and Sevastopol and other cities and villages that are now included within Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u102	Please, Master. He's got a gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u103	Thank you. Vladimir Mystrishyn, faction of Ukraine, District 14. Please state in your law article 15 part three and article 19 of the draft contains such a standard as the executive body in the form of an administration. But this is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine and the ratified Ukraine Charter, the European Charter of Local Self-Government. That's the first question. I mean, I don't understand why this special status is introduced. And the second question. Why make four circuits in such a small town where, I take it, no more than 300,000 people? Is that not going to be an extra cost and load on local budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u104	Thank you for asking. First. There's actually a few questions in there. I want to go back to the concept. In my first call to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I was the head of a subcommittee that was involved in the development of local self-government in Ukraine. And then for the first time, we proposed regional self-government and local self-government. Realizing that people live in cities and villages, their problems coincide very often at the district and district levels. Because in fact, people don't live in the area or in the area, people live in settlements, and where the right to self-government is exercised. Similarly, when we talk about Sevastopol, we really have to imagine this situation that is there. This is not really the only city, and this is obviously still in the old doctrine that if special status is involved in the population, there should be certain settlements in this single, so-called territorial community. In fact, we're dealing with several territorial communities. And as for the contradiction of what appears in Sevastopol's government, once again, it's totally in conflict with neither the Charter nor the laws nor, more importantly, the Constitution. That's true because when we have the head of the district government, it doesn't conflict with the laws or the charter. Similarly, the comparison of Sevastopol to a level of such a microdistrict that just has fewer populations, but it solves these contradictions, because that's what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we won't. So we need to consult with you. We've got a break. If there's no objection, we have 36 people's deputies who want to take part in the Miscellaneous, maybe we can save some money? I can't see the Humvee, Solomon. And I've been noticed, and I'm informing you that only the person in the room will get the word, and I won't pass on the word to the other person. No breaks? Then please report to the committee of the Head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko. Seven minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u106	Thank you. Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I have the honour to report as chairman of the committee for the commission of the committee on the matter under consideration. What does the committee pay attention to? First. The committee fully supports the initiators of the bill that the problem of Sevastopol must be solved and the law must be adopted and settled in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution. But the committee today would like the initiators of the bill to draw their attention to the following. Yes, we are limited by the Constitution, and we must act within it. It really requires that we have a special law, that Sevastopol is a city with special status, that executive power is a local state administration, and we cannot ignore it. But at the same time, we can't ignore what, unfortunately, is less said by the government project and other articles of the Constitution -- 118, 133, 141, which say that Sevastopol is a city, the population of this city is a territorial community that has the right to both the city's head and its own executive organs. And these two problems that regulate the Constitution, we have to take into account that we're working on this bill. Finally, the second block of issues that we can't ignore, by recommending the Supreme Council to adopt one or another law, is that today, historically, Sevastopol is not just a city, and this is the city-region that Sevastopol today includes three cities, including villages, as has already been said, four village councils and four rural councils. At the same time, today in this area, the Black Sea fleet of Russia is based on the Ukrainian Navy. And it can't be ignored either. As a result, the committee examined all three bills, and of the 14 present at the committee meeting, the committee rejected the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers under number 3187. He rejected it from the point of view that this bill is destroying, practically, today's administrative-territorial system, which has come together historically. The biggest challenge to the committee is that it doesn't develop this bill, and it destroys local self-government in a city like Sevastopol, more than that, it doesn't create a proper financial, budgetary base to meet the prospects for the city's development. With regard to the Vernidubov-Zaecka bill number 3187 and the Yushchenka bill 3187-2, the members of the committee were divided in half: 7 votes were supported by one bill and 7 votes were voted in favour of another bill. What's the weak Verni Dubois Bunny bill? Because we're creating a dualism of power and we can practically do the bear service, it's to start a war between the city's heads, the executives and the so-called state administration, which clearly doesn't prescribe the right powers. The head of administration and the head of the city, I say again, disagree with the characteristics of this particular city. With regard to the Yushchenka bill, it actually limits local self-government to some extent, because we only see the state administration here at the level of Sevastopol City. The discussion of this problem led us to the next proposal, which was not set out in the committee’s decision, but which was made. The next suggestion was, should we not consider that, speaking of Sevastopol's administrative and territorial system as a region, we should anticipate in its composition the so-called city of Sevastopol, a center with all powers of self-government in accordance with the Charter on Local Self-Government? And obviously, if we could predict that, and this is being made as a proposal, obviously, then we could write down all the norms and the corresponding interaction of the city authorities. Because Sevastopol is no different today, let's say from Balaklava or from Inkerman according to his status. But it's in that bill, in one, in the other, and in the third, it's practically devoid of what creates, of course, the dissatisfaction of the community of Sevastopol, like the Sevastopol Center. So the committee considered all the bills tabled, determined that: to reject, I repeat, the bill of government regarding the laws of Yushchenka and the bill introduced by the People's MP Verno Dubov and Bunny, the committee proposed to them at a weekly time to reconcile these bills and to introduce a joint bill to really win the required number of votes in the room on the first reading. Regrettably, such a reconciliation did not take place, and all three bills are being discussed today. The committee believes that the most appropriate thing would be these bills, and let the session be defined: if no draft legislation, adopted as a basis, is not supported, then it would obviously be worth the last two bills -- this is Verno Dubova and Yushchenka, sending it back for a second reading and taking into account the positions I have expressed on behalf of the committee and those proposals that were made in discussing this bill, without delaying the time to adopt it and finally solving the problem of the special status of the city of Sevastopol. By the way, I'd like to draw their attention to the fact that there's no such name as Sevastopol City in the Constitution. We made a mistake, and it's just legal impreciseness and inconsistencies. And with Kiev, I think we don't have to make the same mistakes, but we have to be consistent with the Constitution to call the law what the Constitution requires. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u107	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich, but we will soon change the Constitution and introduce everything until the law is passed. Are there any questions you'd like to ask? Sign up. Push the buttons harder. Lighten up. Please, three minutes. Rabbit, behind him, Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u108	Victor Zaichko, 225th constituency, town of Sevastopol. Dear Anatoly Sergeyevich. You support and act very strongly as a guide to all democratic beginnings. And it is clear to you and the declarators that the second law has already passed from a legal act to a purely political act. I'd like to know your position again. Do you support that every citizen, including a sevastopol, has the right, in accordance with the European Charter and the Law on Local Self-Government, to vote for his head, to uphold today's right for local government authorities to have their own executive organs in the territory of Sevastopol and to respond directly to his citizens?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u109	I totally support it, and I said it. And more than that, I'd like to take down the different status of Sevastopol as a city, and let's say the city of Balaklava. And so I suggest that it is the authors of the bill, if they cooperate, and we, the deputies, first decided the administration, that Sevastopol has the same status as Inkerman and Balaklava, and give them the right to self-governance, not to speak for the entire region, because we cannot ignore the status of this region, and it has a special status, and that it is a kind of unification of the territorial community. And saying, identifying Sevastopol-region and actually the town of Sevastopol is obviously wrong. And this mistaken concept is introduced into your bill, obviously, and it creates that tension that won't give you the opportunity, I think, to accept it immediately. We're gonna have to work on that. If you had agreed to do so, obviously this could be the only way out of the law as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u110	Please, Bezpali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u111	Boris Bespalij, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. His question to Anatoly Sergiyovich in the development of the previous one. Indeed, the Sevastopol region includes, in fact, the cities of Inkerman, Balaklava, Kacha, villages and, as a city, already in the narrow sense of Sevastopol. And it makes sense for each of these locations to have full local self-government so that the city head of Sevastopol, chosen by all the sevastopols, the city head of Inkerman, the village head of Kachi, and so on. And in the region, the same thing is true with the analogy with the districts, it makes sense for the district to be state-owned. regional organization in this case. This is partly the answer to the previous one. to the last question. But please tell me how in the framework of the existing laws and the Constitution this can be done. So how can we do without the law on the admin to hold elections separately, to divide these boundaries: and Sevastopol of the city from Inkerman and so on. I mean, how do you technically do that? How realistic is this today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u112	Thank you. I don't think there are any serious problems here, since the city of Sevastopol in the Constitution is defined as a city with special status. Moreover, we have a precedent today when there are cities and you counted them, I see no problem in this law. Separate the city of Sevastopol from the center, so to speak, and consider it part of the great city of Sevastopol as a region. [[I don't know, maybe we can find another solution.]] And solve all the problems of local self-government. And to really take the specifics into account in the division of powers for the region as the city of Sevastopol, the region and the administration, by making a corresponding counterbalance, by clearly strengthening the council, but also by clearly ensuring that the State functions of the region are performed through institutions such as the State Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u113	Thank you, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Dear colleagues! We don't have a very good situation. We have taken as many as three minutes, or 48 minutes, to discuss the matter. According to the Rules, 45 minutes. Eight national deputies were enrolled. If you don't mind, let's take 10 minutes to talk about it and get it over with. And you can say, "I'm impressed." Please, Karmazin. Get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'd like to say about the law on the city of Kiev. And that was my offer, and I remember where I was sitting when I said that Kiev was a hero city, and it deserves it. And because Sevastopol is a hero city like the city of Odessa, unfortunately occupied and bought, all kinds of infox are now being bought, including those affected by the factions of the Social Democrats. For one bracelet of water in Odessa, it is delivered. I mean, heroes are being robbed. What is happening around Sevastopol? I believe that this problem has been studied very well, leading the Commission on Political and Legal Situations in Crimea since 1994-1998. And in view of that, I want to say that I was ashamed to read the conclusions of the scientific and expert government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which did not look at the map and understand what was going on in Sevastopol. I'm not talking about that propaganda, that Luzkov guy, the lords, and the man with the head. Because at Cape Hersones, St. Vladimir's Cathedral, which is now being rebuilt, Vladimir Baptism accepted. And then Russ was baptized, the Kiev Rousseau, I emphasize. And so it solves all the questions and territorial statements, etc. So it's on the bill. Once again, the disgraceful findings of the science-expert administration have given rise to the real crushing of people's aspirations for a position ratified by Ukraine on 15 July 1997 by the European Charter of Local Self-Government. How should self - government authorities be able to form accountable executive bodies? But what does that mean? The non-preservation, the status quo that is now being proposed, was very well reported by Mr. Igor Green. You're only suggesting that you take a picture of the status quo that is. Today, this is a law on the Sevastopol area in fact. No attitude. There is no territory that begins from Cape Saric to the city of Sevastopol. Today there must be a separate self-government guaranteed in Balaklav, in Inkerman, absolutely guaranteed. There they have to pick a city head, it doesn't have to enter the area like it is today, Nahimovski and so on. What is happening today? And that's normal. Is that good for all of you? These bills don't work. In fact, it's a very good suggestion to combine the two bills -- the Greenwell Bill that he reported today, and the Verni Dubov Bill, but you have to make them to conceptually change them to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u115	The word is given to the people’s representative of Bespalam. Get ready for the Cherniaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u116	Thank you. Boris Bespalij, Victor Yushchenko block "Our Ukraine". It's a separate bill. First of all, it's about government. I think that what's completely ignoring local self-government and actually proposing whether it's direct, or the wrong presidential rule there, is also the deadline for its introduction after the new ., i.e. the administrator, tells us that he was introduced, not for adoption, but because the Constitution requires it, and that is why the government brought it in. So I don't think you should stop here. I think the government acted perfectly logically, and we'll do the same logical thing when we reject it. With regard to the bill introduced by the deputies from Sevastopol Verni Dubov and Rabbit, so much positive, in my opinion. But the negative is, by 100 percent, that it corresponds to the Law on Local Self - Government or almost 100 percent. This is where the characteristics of local self - government are not taken into account. Indeed, as one of the colleagues, Baranowski, asked, why then adopt a separate law on Sevastopol. What, though, is not included? The characteristics of Sevastopol, including the region of Sevastopol, are not taken into account. That this is the base, the only base in Ukraine where the foreign Black Sea fleet is based. Perhaps after this temporary situation has been settled, then the law will not be required. There's a law there today, but it's a separate law. And in my opinion, here I am, by the way, and in my question, I've shown it, and I'm joining in with my colleague Karmazin's point of view, when we need to clearly distinguish two positions. This is the position of our profile committee. The full local self - government in Inkerman, Balaklav, Kachi, is located in the villages where the silradas will be formed, and in fact in the city of Sevastopol, with the direct selection of the city’s head and the administration of Sevastopol as a region by analogy with others, more loyally, not with others, but with the areas of Ukraine. I think we're moving on. In both parliamentary projects, there is a very good one. These funds are from the temporary base of the Russian Black Sea Fleet and are expected to be sent directly to Sevastopol, not redistributed through the budget. We saw yesterday how the budget was being adopted. I think where all the other money went, they're going, to some election campaign by Yanukovich and Sevastopol. Because we have to keep doing this. In my opinion, since both MPs are very consistent in many positions, except for the management scheme, which is both there and there, and it's not optimal, it would certainly be possible to either accept one of them as a basis, or that is unlikely, if the authors do not agree on one another, or to accept both of them with a fixed deadline for re-reading them for the first time, so that the Supreme Council decree specifies the deadline for the final adoption of the law by 1 January 2005. This is quite possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u117	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of Cherniak. And probably considering what Bunny insists quite a bit, and the representative of Sevastopol, he's in the leadership of Sevastopol, and we'll give him another word. Please. Get ready, Bunny.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u118	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the special status of Sevastopol obliges us to resolve the issue of the special legal status of Sevastopol. The main thing, in my opinion, is to strike a balance between special and general. Combine the general moments of local self - government and the special, specific moments associated with the city’s special, specific status. So if we do that, the bill will work, it won't just be on paper, it won't be declared, it'll be an active, efficient and promising bill. In this regard, our task, the bill -- to decide, to ensure full local self-government -- is essential. And hand over power to the communities, and secure the power of the communities. The crowd is the main hub of local government. Of course, this will require, as already discussed here, a distinction, to ensure full local self-government, directly in the town of Sevastopol, Balaklavi, Inkerman, in Kachi, in the villages, that is, we should go this way -- to demarcate and ensure the full local self-government of each community. Of course, we need to take into account the specificity in terms of the relationship between the Council and the local government. I also share the view that it is necessary to strengthen the Council of Every Community, but of course it is necessary and necessary to provide and ensure that the public administration performs its functions. Of course, there are always collisions, so a clear line of distinction between the city’s head and the head of the administration is needed. It's very difficult to do, I think in the long run it needs to be avoided, it has to be the only city head. But at least now, in these specific conditions, you have to clearly distinguish these functions in order to have fewer collisions. In fact, there is regional and local self-government, and we focus here on local self-government. It's not regional, although it's very important, it's local. And in these bills it has to be. Now what my suggestions are. The proposal is to ensure that the European Charter of Local Self-Government is in line. And with regard to the bills, I think we need to make two MP bills alone. We therefore face the need to either re-read or ask the MPs of Verni Dubov and Rabbit to agree with the law of Yushchenka and Immortal and make their proposals for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u119	Vladimir Kirilovich, that doesn't sound like you. You're always clear and timely, that's something today. Untimely, yes, clearly, but inconveniently. Yes, please, Bunny. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u120	Victor Zaichko, 225 constituency, town of Sevastopol. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected sevastopols. For 7 years, the Supreme Council of Ukraine ignores the fact of constitutional lawlessness - violation of the rights of the Sebastopol community, failing to comply with the requirement of the Ukrainian Constitution for the adoption of the Law on the Status of the City of Sevastopol, prevents the city community from living under the European Charter of Local Self-Government and without any restrictions on the application of the Law on Local Self-Government to the existing legislation. During Ukraine's 13th year of independence, the city continues to live by temporary rules with limited rights. I express the numerous penalties imposed by the Sebastopols in the absence of the proper separation of the authority and control powers of our territorial communities, as well as the unjustified violation of the legitimate rights of representative self-government bodies and the lack of proper authority of the executive branch. This situation has led to the economic and political moaning of the hero city and, above all, has prevented my constituents from participating directly in the definition of the city's development prospects. Continue. The legal, economic and budgetary regulations proposed in the draft law guarantee the necessary autonomy of the executive and local government authorities to manage the city and, at the same time, increase the responsibility of the city to the State, create all necessary prerequisites for the further stabilization of the socio-economic and political life of the Sevastopol region. Other drafts of the law, which knowingly restrict the legitimate rights of the Sebastopol community, depriving the Sebastopols of the right to choose their own city head and so on, are surprising. How do you know that the Sebastopols are not “adults”, or someone is still seeing us as secondary citizens of Ukraine? Dear colleagues, we must strongly resist such variations in pseudo-democracy. Aware of the need for political reforms in the State, we are talking a lot about the Euro elections, the democratization of society. However, Sevastopol's world-renowned city remains a reservation, where the main source of power is a resident who is in fact excluded from the power of self-government. Ukraine's only analogue, which is not for Ukraine's benefit, which generates various political speculations around the city and the sevastopols. The draft Law on the City of Sevastopol, proposed by me and my colleague Vernidub, was widely discussed in the city's labour teams and was supported by city political party organizations, public movements. The People's Deputies of the Supreme Council are addressed by special appeal to the City Council for Project Support. The adoption of this law is aimed at resolving the problems of the local community and protecting completely all public interests caused by the specific geopolitical and military strategic situation of the city. Dear colleagues, the Sebastopols are counting on your support. We are confident that the adoption of our draft law as a basis for first reading is confirmation by legislators, respect for the heroic and labour history of the town of Sevastopol, recognition of its important role in the modern phase of independent Ukraine, and the confidence of sevastopols in the supreme legislative body of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u121	Thank you. The draft Law on the City of Sevastopol has been discussed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. There's a bill for the Heat Supply Act, registration number 4021. Reports the Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security - Peter Pavlovich Sabashuk. Will you be in three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u122	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues. I'm going to be very concise. The law we are looking at today is made by a working group. The working group included all the leading experts in our Ukraine: three institutes: the Energy Applied Research Institute, the Institute of Electrical Dynamics, the Institute of Technical Thermophysicals; two State Committees: the Energy Conservation Committee, the Committee on Housing and Utilities; and two public organizations: the TEC Association and the Heat Communication Association. And to this day we present to you the Law on Heat. What does this law involve? Basically, I would like to say, the rule of this law -- it has to solve the issue of state regulation of the heat supply of our cities. Today, this issue is not settled, it is regulated only by the old rules of the Soviet Union, the Rule of Warm Energy. I think this law is going to work. This law today settles all these issues that are today, both tariff policy and local self-government, and, above all, it will allow for the operation of heat stations and boilers to provide our cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u123	Thank you. That's right, everybody. Are there any questions? They will be. Let's sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. School, prepare Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u124	Thank you. Dear reporter! The laconism of this bill's report is, of course, acceptable, but nevertheless, I would like to raise the question whether it will eventually be overcome and vachanalized to cut the cost of unsupplied heat for the unsupplied services that are now taking place? So this is how the service is accounted for. The amount paid by a person or a user. If the user did not use services, he still pays for them. It looks something, let's say, unconstitutionally a little bit, but this is stable. Does the bill decide these things? Literally in a few words. And the second. Now we know this is the desire to hang boilers that used to be in these factories, that is. to hand them over to the municipal authorities and to the municipal authorities seriously and resolutely renounces these objects for many reasons — both objective and subjective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u125	First of all, I want to say that there's a special point in this law about the relationship between the consumer and the service provider. This time. The other one. We want to break this chain of monopolistics and allow the buyer to buy heat from whoever he wants, if that's possible. Third. It is certainly the license of the one who will provide the energy. If he does. The Antimonopoly Committee will be the conclusion, you can take that license. And the fourth. We give free access to heat networks to anyone who wants to produce heat. If we do that and a person can buy not only, but the precedents are even in my town of Zaporozhye, where it's impossible, factories want to give us heat twice as cheap as boilers. And we want this to be a possibility. That's what the heat grids are going to be. they will be able to accept the heat that is free in the city. This is the first time. And second of all, what we're talking about in Wakhanalia, well, I want you to know that this vakhanalia -- we haven't done community farming in 12 years -- we did a committee on municipal agriculture at last a year ago. And this is the law. We made a special working group on the committee. Why? There was a joint meeting between the City Association and the TEC. And the City Association said, "We need laws to regulate these problems." And there's not one of them. I've already informed you about the Law on.generation, the Law on Warmness, the Law on the Committees today is the State Programme for the Reform of Municipal Energy, and the following law that we're developing is the Energy Fund Act. And we think that if we can adopt these four laws, we're going to shut down the whole system completely. And the main thing. This law gives the Cabinet of Ministers a very large number of tasks for the development of special normative acts: right. Warm, typical agreement between the consumer and this. And so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u126	Please, Gunzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u127	Dear Peter Pavlovich. Hinzburg, Communist faction. This is how I came to know your law and have very many questions inside of me and have found no answer to three questions from my constituents. Tell me, who will control the licensing of these private enterprises that will issue heat? First. The other one. The setting of heat tariffs should provide full compensation for the cost of production. Who will control it? And the third. Creating competitively capable, as you say, conditions for all businesses to have cheaper or more in terms of electricity supply. Today, that is the question. They all began to privatize heat stations for profit. And this profit comes out of our voters' pockets, from ordinary citizens, they pay. If it wasn't profitable, we wouldn't have it. Please tell me, will this law be able to remedy this situation? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u128	Let me start with the first one. We have a residential committee. And this committee of state has to issue licenses and because of its authorities in its places and areas, the control of licenses is usually used. There's an organ like that, thank God, we made it. That's the first one. Now the second one. Who Will Reparate? First of all, it's really a tariff for this law to be set by local councils. So the village council, the district council, or the city, is setting up a session, taking the heat tariff, and that's enough, I think, seriously and normally, because it's not going to be the top down, it's going to be the city. In addition, we assumed that the council had the right to accept the tariff as it considered necessary. But if it takes the tariff below, it can decide to grant heat networks if it deems it necessary. And the third thing I'd like to say is competition. Without competition, we'll never be able to do it, you know. I want to say that the law that I said earlier about cogeneration gives us the opportunity and the program for reforming the utility energy that we've done today, it gives us the opportunity to re-arm our communal economy today. So in order to recycle today in new technologies, our boilers have to become power stations. Why? We want boilers to be profitable. Well, they're never going to be profitable, because, I'll tell you why, because for today, the antitrust committee and councils are going to be the hot ones, and no one is going to make more than five percent of their profitability. And the production of electricity, which today is possible, as an engineer, I want to say, I have this experience, maybe on a six- or eight-price boiler room. And then there will be the possibility of an investor showing up to bring our typical farm into order.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u129	Thank you, Peter Pavlovich. Please have a seat. Dear colleagues, we have great interest in this bill. Thirteen national deputies were enrolled. Let's start implementing. We're going to take a minute of 10 to figure that out. The word is given by Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Get ready for Yavorowski. I can't see. It means Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u130	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I'd like to thank National Deputy Sabashuk for taking on this function, which was actually going to be a government function absolutely, because it's too complex a relationship that needs to be settled. And the bill also defines government policy in the area of heat supply and how to monitor, account and control, and responsibility, and also envisions state support in the area of heat supply, which will be given according to the amount of funds provided for in the State Budget and local budgets laws for the year in question. At the same time, I would like to say that scientific and expert management has worked very well in this case, these are Mr. Semiletov, Lechenko, Lavrinczuk, Valkovsky, who have seen the flaws in this bill that violate and may violate the rights of people who are actually being violated in a space-wide way today. You'll see that the center of the city, even Kiev, is going to be completely pointless. It is only in principle to raise the most funds from every meter of land that was bought up in the center of the city. And that's why today, even in Kiev, the heat supply is full of accidents, separate houses are shut down, and that's what's happening in Ukraine. And unfortunately, today there are whole cities that have given up the heat, and these reasons are not being analysed by the government. In fact, these are extraordinary reasons. Therefore, in those articles, in article 10, where the government is responsible, article 11 — the authority of local executives and local authorities — needs to be made clear how the authority of one of these authorities, or of government authorities, or of local self - government is determined. This clarity is not yet in the project. And you have to clearly write down whose competence it is to set and set standards for the supply of heat. Because, as we look at it, the investigation committee, on Odessa's behalf, found that unfortunately, the antitrust committee said there was no violation of the monopoly. Takes all the water for a single bracelet for 49 years. This could all be about the items of the heat supply. Next. There are huge remarks to article 14, where you write: "It is not a violation of anti-monopoly legislation in situations where payments for consumer energy after warning limit or stop." That is, it desolates people. And that today, at this level of pay, could be around. So I would be very careful about that. 22 articles of the project, yours, you, if the owner builds something, you say to him, "On a tender basis." Therefore, dear friends, the bill should be adopted in the first reading. And the government also needs to get involved in working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u131	Please, Puzakov. Get ready for Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u132	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Ukraine's energy independence is largely determined by the efficiency of the use of primary energy, especially those that are scarce, such as natural gas and oil. It is this energy that is used to a large extent to produce thermal energy. But the relationship in the heat market to this day, for example, for Kirovgrad, is not organized. In many of the city’s buildings, the heating season has not yet begun, for example, on the street of Kuropatnikov’s 50 and 50th buildings, which heats up the labor colony, for one reason: CREP 13, Chief of Medvedev, in three years, has not counted a single penny for the given heat, even though the people of these two buildings were calculated on time. In Kirovgrad, the problem of heating remains unresolved as a depressive zone. Nearly 97 buildings in the area did not start the heating season, and where there is heat, it is only imaginary. The Hayvoron Social Protection Authority has completed payments of solid fuel and gas subsidies to residents of the area today. The total money of 1 million 754,000 dollars was paid to 4,202 families, but the fuel, due to the absence of it, cannot be purchased, and the head of Rybokuchma's Justice Department reported a satisfactory state of preparation for the winter, even though the people were running out of fuel. Isn't that an anecdote? In the area of the mechanism of mutual responsibility between manufacturers, suppliers, and consumers of heat, it is not cold. Why think of someone? The second article, which states that this law regulates relations arising from the production, transport, supply and use of thermal energy, State control of heat consumption regimes, would like to ask the author of this bill: "And what state oversight of heat consumption regimes can be conducted if in many cities of Ukraine, with the arrival of a new owner for enterprises that provide heat, decommissioned bills. The houses of the thermal treatment certificates in the houses where the heat was paid, and the heat supplier would have paid for it himself?" There have also been changes in the order of calculations, i.e. an increased percentage of the pay for heat at room temperature. And what do you think this is, state oversight? Because the state is well aware of the state of crisis in the energy sector. And what are the measures taken by the State to eliminate the crisis that the Prime Minister himself referred to at the government meeting? There's probably no time to do this, because the Gulf of Kerchnya is in the way. What is the reason for adopting this ineffective law, like thousands of others? Well, unless it's for a twig. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u133	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy of Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u134	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. The project regulates relationships that occur during heating. But the heat, the electricity, and the energy supply are pretty often inseparable. And when considering a new project, it is necessary to take into account existing legislation in this area. Well, for example. Ukraine's Law, Ukraine's Law on Electricity. It defines the term "energy consumption." "These are subjects of economic activity and individuals who use energy for their own purposes on the basis of a contract for its sale or purchase." Everything seems to be clear here, the term is clearly defined. This project that we're looking at defines the term that the consumer of heat energy is the subject of economic activity, where a device of commercial thermal energy calculation is installed, or a natural person who uses thermal energy on the basis of a contract. Does this mean that it is impossible for natural persons to set up accounting devices, and legal persons can consume electricity without a contract? There's a question. Why isn't he in the bill? There is no responsibility, no responsibility for excessive tariffs for heating services, no responsibility for providing inadequacies to the consumer, and no obligation on the supplier voluntarily, without a reminder to make a recalculation of tariffs in the event of inadequacies in the provision of services. For example, the consumer orders room temperature, and he gets 8 to 10 degrees low, or he's over 30 degrees high, and he's going to have some windows open. Here, at first glance, the bill seems to be a framework. But many articles do not carry any legislative burden, and they are more like regulations. And it seems that the main load of the project is set out in paragraph two of article 25, which refers to the creation of four percent of the workplaces for disabled people from the number of workers employed exclusively in non-industrial production, or industrial production, as if this standard were being reversed. In recent times, laws have been submitted to the Supreme Council on this subject in many areas of industry and mining and metallurgical and oil industries. But this problem is the subject of another Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, not this law. And finally, if this is a framework law, then obviously we should recommend to the author, or to the profile committee, or to the Cabinet of Ministers to work on it to take into account problems not only the heat supply, but also water supply, gas supply, electricity supply, that is to say, the supply of all energy supplies. Is it necessary for each provision to have its own law? Do all problems need to be brought together and laid out in one Energy Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u135	Thank you. Question completed. Decision-making will be decided on the day of the vote. There's a draft of the Transport and Expediture Act, registration number 2474. Reported to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Strebko Stanislav Kirilovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Until now, a number of issues, contractual relations between freight forwarders, their rights and obligations remain unresolved at the legislative level. In their practical activities, transport freight forwarders are guided by different, sometimes contradictory, acts of general economic law. So today, there's not a single legal field for this important activity. Most of the legislation in force and other legislation relating to the transfer and transfer activity were adopted in the early years of Ukraine's independence and take part in the specificities of the market economy. Meanwhile, according to the International Federation of Expeditioners, about 85 per cent of all cargo in the world is being transported with the participation of freight forwarders, and shipping is a full chain of transport, the most important component of Ukraine's integrated programme as a transit state for the period 2002-2010. One of the tasks of this program is to develop a draft law that is being considered by us. The adoption of a legislative project will contribute to the development of transport and shipping activities in Ukraine, meeting the needs and protecting the interests of shipping users, accelerating the integration of the road transport complex of Ukraine into the transport system of Europe. The structural draft of the Ukrainian Transport and Expedition Act consists of 16 articles covering relations between freight forwarders, freight forwarders, users of transport services, state authorities, other entities of the legal relationship that arise in the delivery and handling of cargo. The law establishes general requirements and standards for shipping services, defines the rights and obligations of participants in the shipping process, defines the forms of State support for this type of activity, particularly in international transport. The support of this law by the members of the Supreme Council Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, the conclusions of ministries and departments, all of which give rise to the consideration of the draft law in the first reading. All comments and suggestions are considered with interested organizations and authors and will be taken into account in the second reading test. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u137	Thank you. No questions? Thank you. Have a seat, please. I don't see a co-rapporteur from the committee. It's all clear here. We've got four national deputies. There's two in the hall. Please, Karmazin. Get ready for the Cherniaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u138	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! I want to thank the People's Deputy for the serious preparation of this bill, he was preparing for it, and he was submitting a bill on December 28, 2002. Then he received comments that were very important. They have been reworked and, although the bill is now adopted, it also has a point. And the remarks, in my opinion, are serious. Another question. What is the subject of this law? . the subject wants to regulate the relations that arise in the shipping of freight by all modes of transport, except pipelines, and it is recognized that this activity is a shipping and freight forwarder and, of course, the provision of freight forwarders in the country is now regulated by a whole series of regulatory acts, including most of its subordinates, and there is no law that codifies the legal status of freight forwarders. So I think we need to look at the observations given to this law, and in particular the observation of purely legal order. For example, it is proposed to establish the obligation of pre-trial settlement of the dispute arising from the Transport Expedition Treaty. This bill is contrary to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure. According to Article 5 of the Code of Commerce and Procedure, only disputes arising from the Agreement on the provision of communications services, a contract based on a public contract, are required before the settlement of farm disputes. I would also like to point out that the project does not have a sufficiently detailed question of involving freight forwarders in the performance of their obligations under the contract of "Transport Expedition of Others", documents and other information provided to shipping customers. And with a very good goal, i.e. to reduce the impact of illegal acts, we are thus, after all, allowing the sheaths to require anything. So I would suggest that we fill these standards with concrete meaning. And the definition, to complement Article 3 with a new part, transport and shipping activities can be carried out by both specialized organizations and other economic entities, including carriers. Why should a monopoly be established? We know how much a monopoly costs today, we know these enterprises that do the monopoly, we know how they get discounts, including railways. We know why the Odessa Kiev road is broken today. Because it's broken because they've raised the prices for all of them, and so they've all been driving cars. And now at the state expense, we take loans and we patch up roads that are actually broken down because of the actions of the underprivileged officials. I believe that this law should be adopted in the first reading, and I will also make proposals to the law. And I'm asking you to take this proposal into account when you're working on the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u139	Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u140	The faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Indeed, transport and shipping activities are practically not regulated. Since it is becoming increasingly important, it is impossible to continue to endure such a situation and it is absolutely right to pass it, it is right, it is timely, it is promising. If there is an area of activity, particularly such as shipping and shipping, it must be regulated by law. We need to clearly identify the legal status of transport forwarders, determine who can carry out this activity, which responsibility exists in this regard. I mean, you need a framework law. It is this law that claims to be a framework law, and it claims to replace the laws of others where it was mentioned, and the legal acts with a special framework law that regulates this field of activity. So I think we should be positive about it. I think we have every reason to adopt the bill in the first reading. Now about the wishes that I would like to express in order to take them into account in the process of preparing for the second reading. First, write out clearly and ensure fair competition mechanisms in the field of transport and shipping. I agree with Deputy Carmazin, who said that a monopoly should not be allowed. That's right. We have a special law. By the way, in the last summons, we took him in, and I told him about the protection of economic competition. In accordance with this law, it is necessary to write down the rules of the law. Secondly, to bring this bill into line with the Code of Masters. Since we have already adopted the Code of Lords, we are obliged to bring to light all laws governing the areas of activity governed by the Code of Lords but which specify them, and this law specifies this legislation. The contradictions that exist between this bill and the Code of Hostages must therefore be eliminated. That's what the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is talking about, by the way. And the third moment. It's impossible to regulate shipping by means of regulations. Everything must be done to ensure that there is absolutely no possibility of regulating regulations after the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u141	Vladimir Kirilovich, do you believe that? Okay. Question completed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have 13 hours to go. In accordance with the order of the day of 13 hours, we should be with you to consider the question of "Variance." Okay, we'll be there in two minutes. In two minutes we won't discuss your question, Yuri Anatolyevich. Shall we take a look at it in two minutes? Let us not be accused of violating the Rules. Please show me on the monitor the list of people who signed up for the "Variance" question. Let's start implementing. Please, Poljczuk Mikola Efremovich. Prepare Grosjevo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u142	Nikolai Polishchuk, Victor Yushchenka block, faction of "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! People and Ukraine! Yesterday we witnessed the brutal denial of the nation’s right to a normal life. Several articles of the Constitution of Ukraine were immediately violated: Article 22 on enacting laws or amending valid laws that prevent the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms, Article 48 on the right to an adequate standard of living for yourself and the family, a reduced minimum wage for 32 bracelets yesterday! This is much lower than the subsistence minimum, which is planned to be 358 dollars. In order to maintain the current inter-qualification ratios in December or January-February, there is no forecast cost. They'll go to Yanukovic's election campaign. Article 49 on the right to health and medical care has been severely violated, and people have given up hope of authority and self - confidence in those who can, truths and lies. And the government introduces VAT into medicines, increasing their cost by 25 percent. So there is nothing to eat for, and there is nothing to heal for. Here are your concerns, gentlemen of the government! Here's your social budget! Here is an example of a cynical attitude toward the social problems of the people of Ukraine. Deputy Bogdan Hubski of the majority was the initiator of a bill to increase the child’s birth assistance to 760 bracelets. This law is passed. The MP has gained popularity. But he and his faction, like most of them, supported a budget in which this rate is halved, up to 360 dollars. Dear majority, why do you allow yourself to be manipulated by criminal authorities? And the introduction of alcohol excises, voted in the budget, an increase of 8 times from two bracelets to 16 will not only lead to a substantial 2-3-time trip to the walking drug itself, but will also lose the domestic producer of these drugs, who will not be able to compete with a foreign producer. Officials, you're talking about increasing health funding, but you're reducing it. If there was one in 2002. 2.6 of GDP, we got 3.2 in 2003, so you're giving 3.1 already in 2003. Where will the money go? By whom? At the expense of the poor, you are no longer being treated in Ukraine, but remember that urgent help will have to be received here, and what kind of medicine you create, and you will be treated. There are no individual airplanes on all of them, and sharp pathology will not wait for you to fly to Austria. Respectful voters, not funded articles on heart attacks and strokes, are only 25 million, and are hiding billions of dollars for election. I am grateful to all who came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the day of the budget vote. The budget is not social, but the people have shown that it is a nation. I don't understand the medical professions, the medical professions, you can see, they're in a situation like this. Dear colleagues, as a doctor with a 34-year-old internship in the field of emergency assistance, I can say that we have powerful weights to put the government in place, so let's use them. And this authority does not think about the people, does not think about health care, nor does it place such authority in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u143	Thank you, Mikolo Efremovich. The word has the national deputy Grzezhev to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u144	Anatoly Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! I, like my fellow socialists, have been outraged by the decision of the Government, which unfortunately also supported Parliament, to lower the previously adopted living minimum to 250 bracelets. I can't understand anything else: how can the people, I repeat, vote for the status of the people's deputies for such proposals? Then what are the folk after that? The Tovarish newspaper will publish lists of such workers' advocates, let the people know their heroes. Of course, once such decisions have been made, the authority of Parliament is still very low. And someone's interested. In this regard, I appeal to the leadership of the Supreme Council: to provide at least public explanations to the people for such acts of Parliament. Or what is the Government's proposal to force people out of their homes? How, then, should we hate our people in order to take such steps?Oh, my God! At the top of cynicism, socialists qualify for such actions. Is it not enough that we have already paid 4 million of our fellow citizens for anti-national government policies? Lords of lords, you cannot destroy your people any more. In the end, the people will curse you! Or to consider letters and complaints from citizens. The principle of the actions of the authorities is that I represent power, and because I want to, I want to. At the same time, officials tend to unite and support each other, transforming the famous aphorism: "Hand of Moet". That's the outcome. In the established system, citizens have become indifferent, defenceless. Examples to thousands, and here's one of them. I have received a statement with the signatures of 205 inhabitants of the village of Belegorodek Kyevo-Svetoshin region of Kiev and the village of Veselinovka Barysev region. For years, people have written letters to all authorities requesting their legal requirements and that they cannot obtain land acts, that they are not paid under the law to rent land, that without their knowledge and consent they are managed by the property of the former collective economy. They co-operate with them on the distribution of land resources. The actions of the authorities are understandable. The land under Kiev has a special price, and that is why they do not want to consider the matter on the merits, wave, and delay the time in the hope of settling their interests. I appeal to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko Ivan Grigorievich, Prosecutor General Vasilev Gennadija Andreevich, to consider the substantive issue involving the citizens of the village. In doing so, I declare as the Ukrainian People's Deputy, with my right of reply, only after your signatures. In another case, I will again and again request the Supreme Council to support my rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u145	The word is given by the national deputy Carmazin, Slabenko also gives him his time. It's been six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u146	Thank you. The Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity" of Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine." Ladies and gentlemen of the nation, the distinguished Adam Ivanovich, is a respected citizen of Ukraine. I would like to reiterate today that yesterday there was a betrayal of Ukraine's state interests by those who call themselves the majority. There was an attempt to steal our state funds on a particularly large scale. This amount is hard to calculate today, but it is between seven billion and ten billion dollars. I'd like you to think about it every day and every second to remember: seven or ten billion dollars, I can't exactly say right now, but that's at least seven billion dollars. This means the extinction of 300-400 villages, 340 towns in the district. Here's what you did! You have to leave this country because you're always going where your property is abroad. But I think the people need to know the truth about what happened yesterday. Dear National Deputies! And the national MP Slabenko, and I'm paying attention to what happened today, and it's happening in the judicial branch of power where Ukrainian citizens are always trying to protect their rights. And we want to publish the address that was given at the Judges' Assembly of the Biologic District Court of the District, which is similar to the one in Volinsky County, in other areas. They report that in 2002, 5 million 94,000 cases were brought before the courts in the first instance, one million 700 out of a thousand cases more than in 2001. On average, 101 cases came to every district court judge every month in the past year. During this period, the judge of the Court of Appeal considered six cases a month, and in Ternopilski, Cherniewsky, Ivano-Frankivski, three cases. That is, the judge of the district court is dealing with more cases a day than the judge of the court of appeal does a month. Consider, please, the honourable officials we adopted under pressure from the Supreme Court of Boyk. How can such statistics be allocated to the maintenance of local courts, taking into account the number of cases and the cost of their consideration of the minimum budget? Moreover, the wages of a local court judge remain the lowest among the judges. Perhaps this is the reason why the positions of judges in the local courts remain vacant. In particular, in the Hmelnicka district, among the judges, the districts that work in the district courts only two of them reached the age of 60. During the years of independence of the court, no money has been allocated for repairs to the premises, for the purchase of furniture, for the goods of the household, and mostly for the benefit of the State’s sponsoring aid, as well as other authorities that demean the honor and dignity of the judges undermine the authority of the judges. Judges are not provided with mantiacs, and they sit in candlesticks, who are not yet certified by the judge, or by means of communication. Moreover, the judges are not sworn. Today, there are 3,000 justice judges in the state who are not sworn in, Adam Ivanovich. I'm focusing on this because the President of Ukraine doesn't have time, there's no room. On the night of September 20th and September 21st, unknown persons broke in and broke into the premises of the Bilogir district court of Hmelnicki district because it wasn't protected or equipped with a signal. This is the case with virtually all courts in Ukraine. So, dear friends, there's nothing in the budget. I also want to pay attention to Ukraine's dangerous national security situation, which is the disease of AIDS and HIV infection, and the improper organization of the fight against it. The AIDS epidemic is spreading rapidly in Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian Center for AIDS Prevention since 1987, 57,835 wile-infected people and 305 foreigners have officially been registered in Ukraine. In turn, according to the World Health Organization, the total number of will-infected persons can be much higher, equal to nearly half a million people who have been sick or infected, which is almost 1 percent of the total population of Ukraine. A particularly dangerous situation is in the Odessa region. It is important to realize that every statistical unit is surrounded by living people and that they and their loved ones are usually alone with problems of their own. That's a threat. The threat is proliferation. According to experts, if these rates go any further, by 2010, there could be 1 million 400,000 people. So they're very unhappy. Every month in Ukraine, between 30 and 50 AIDS patients die. I want to express a particular concern in a region like Odessa. There's no region like that anymore. He's really the best, I love him most, but according to the Odessa Center, 18,000 people are registered. In Odessa, 13. During the nine months of this year, 424 people died. Compare that this is twice as much as it was last year. At the same time, the station that exists at the Odessa District Center for Wil-Infection is only equipped with 25 beds. Only those in need of constant medical attention receive medical attention at the center. The number of such ones is steadily increasing. Thus, AIDS is a threat to Ukraine’s national security, and urgent measures must be taken by the State. This is where money is to be directed instead of directing money to government administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u147	Thank you. The word is given to the People’s Deputy Sokirko. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u148	Mikola Sokirko, "Our Ukraine" faction, Solidarity Party. Dear Chairman! Colleagues! By the end of this year, agricultural production in Ukraine had dropped by a quarter compared to the previous year. The village again with enormous problems. Excolgospas and farmers worked as if they were in a terrible dream. The year began with price jumps on Greek and wheat, continued with bread tests by law enforcement authorities, heating up price policies in the food market. And it ends with an increase in the amount of bread and butter, and the tension increases. In electoral districts, there is a negative trend, and every day people are convinced that the crisis is getting deeper. The cattle’s head is shrinking, farm damage is on the rise, wheat will be on the road, and government will hardly be able to hold the price of bread in November, December of this year. Just look, when consumer prices go up, the cost of agricultural production doesn't ensure production and development in agro-industrial production. The structure of government in the public market is imperfect. There is virtually no income support for agricultural producers, as well as effective mechanisms for government regulation of food markets. The structure of the agrarian market remains unordered, not transparent, does not function as basic elements of civilized pricing. The villagers today wonder where we are going, what awaits us and our children with devastating reforms? Already in most villages and farms, come on. The recent fertile soil, which has grown in weeds today, has become a national disaster. Animals are being wiped out, and the authorities are being torn apart that our country is developing. Where is it when yesterday’s approval of the budget says the following? The budget virtually cancels all agricultural benefits. Agriculture has long been on its knees. And the adoption of this budget, which the government has proposed, will further depress the villagers and not allow them to rise from their knees. I'm asking myself a question. What my managers, fellow agricultural workers with more than 33 years of age who have given production everything in their time and health and loyalty now think. This is Pet Ivan Leontievitch, Gontar Viktor Dmitrovich and others. These are people who have spent their entire lives making possible better changes in agriculture. There's a lot of problems, you can't catch them. But I'll remind you one thing. Providing bread to the population This has not happened in 30 years. It wasn't the harvest years, it was today. What kind of masters they are in our country, if they've taken all the grain out and all the troubles are written out. It's done well by previous generations, my peers for agriculture. But this requires immediate conclusions, immediate decisions to make in order to change agriculture for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u149	Thank you. The word has been given to the people’s representative of Puzakov. Get ready for Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u150	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradčina. More than 12 years have passed since the destruction of the great country, the Soviet Union. The past time has clearly proved that we were poor not as materially as we were spiritually. The minds of people in the midst of bitter thoughts about bread have been seized by the muscular and stupid heroes of the American show. Yes, in fact, during those 12 years, we did not have any country or literature. This time cannot even be termed a great age, for an era can be called a time of content. And he hasn't been here in years. Both in life and in literature were flabbergasters, halters, and careerists. After all, literature needs long and hard to find, and so will the findings. The literature needs simple, powerful and gentle voices. There should be no literature on the principle of fish and fish cancer. How sad it is that today’s issues have become more important and relevant: Are you cold, hungry, or afraid? And unfortunately, on these terrible days, many people have to respond positively to these questions. And that's the most disturbing thing. Many of our compatriots are both cold and hungry and fearful, but the question remains that the day is coming for us. It is even scary to think about it, and especially after the adoption by the Kuchmow majority of the 2004 State budget. It's very scary that our growing generation is lost. Young people have no notion of moral cleanness, they are raised by fighters, not by classical literature and music. After all, literature was always called humanity, it was Fathers and Children, Crime and Punishment. "War and peace," "There were dums," "Who's to blame?‘ What do you want to do?", Eugeny Onegin, Raising Celebrate, etc. What about today? How can you raise a person without reading "Young Guard", "How Steel Was Stained", not knowing the image of Ramhetov, not studying the poetry of Nekrasov, Pushkin. And as bitter as it may be, today literature is moving away from people, and it has been taken away from life, its real problems. Indeed, true literature cannot be invented or distorted. Today, the great, coffeemakers, the writers who have recently appeared, blame Soviet times for the fact that the existing censorship did not allow for the full development of literature. It's crazy. Censorship is always necessary, but not as ugly as in the bourgeois state of the present State. Yes, there was a very strong censorship in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. But what great literature this century has given us! And how sad that this most valuable educational material is not used in schools today. Unfortunately, our growing generation does not know about him. And I don't believe that many of the people's deputies from most of the bourgeois authorities have had such a ecclesiastical attitude toward Russian literature that they didn't even want to listen to this important question on Government Day. Because you, colleagues, have to remember to tell everyone and children and grandchildren that you and I have some roots and some heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u151	Thank you. The word has been given to the national deputy of Costinjuk. Get ready for Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u152	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! December 1st is 12 years old since the Ukrainian people, in a referendum of over 90 percent, said their firm "yes" to Ukraine's independence, thus confirming the Independence Act adopted by the Supreme Council on August 24, 1991. The results of the referendum actually changed the geographical map of Europe and became an independent Ukraine. And the totalitarian empire, the empire of evil, disappeared. Recall that then the citizens of all the regions of Ukraine supported the independence of our nation. Today we have the attributes of the state -- both the flag, and the anthem, and the national currency, and the Armed Forces, and so on. But we have to remember and note that for 13 years of independence, there is a catastrophic poverty of the population, millions of migrants who are forced to wander abroad in search of income opportunities, pensioners who are barely ending their miserable pension, a complex demographic situation -- we are dying out as a nation, corruption in the upper echelons of power, the separation of officials of different levels, the ordering of political killings and well-known journalists, the use of law enforcement agencies to combat opposition forces, the violation of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens. And this list can be continued. Clearly, the entire responsibility for such a state of affairs rests with corrupt authorities, who have failed to become Ukrainian in essence in these years. And instead of continuing to meet the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of our state, he proposes to carry out so-called "political reform", the main goal is to preserve it under the power of the criminal oligarchy clan. The question of the so-called reform that is being described every day by the state-owned canals that are controlled by known oligarchs is distracting citizens from solving urgent economic and social problems, including There is also an increase in the price of bread for many of our fellow countrymen, who have become the only food. In some regions, according to the media, it's even planned to put special cards on the bread -- it's pointed to the 12th year of independence. In December 1991, the Ukrainian people made their choice and had to have an independent democratic Ukraine. Today we must do everything we can to establish the principles of democracy, to protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, particularly the right to the universal election of the President of the State. Remember that democracy must be fought, and the Georgian experience is a good example for the Ukrainian people. In the fight against counterfeiting, against injustice, against falsehood, against the neo-Emperion of evil. Events in Tbilisi have shown that despite power, the street is not synonymous with chaos and disorder; it is an active factor that unites people of all beliefs about freedom, truth, and social justice in the interests of the people. I want to welcome all the citizens of Ukraine today with our celebration and wish us all victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u153	Please, the word has Malinovsky's national deputy, to prepare for the Mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u154	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Dear colleagues, yesterday’s events in the Supreme Council have forced me to address, first of all, radio listeners and more, perhaps all the voters of Ukraine. Don't you think, reverend radio listeners, that we are with you today in a great state as a flock. I'm sorry about that. A herd that is the chief incense that drives into a barn that will benefit him and his clan. Consider the events of yesterday: 235 shepherds have done what will be done to our Ukrainian people in all things, and there will be great distress. I won't go far, I want to analyze the situation in Cherkishka, and then each of you can spray this situation into your own regions. The Governor of Cherkaščina, Mr. Löshenko, received a well-deserved economist from Ukraine just one day. Squash enters the five most economically developed regions. What do we see today? A neglected village, a neglected city, a decommissioned farm, a broken industry. The village of the city type of Caternopil district, Yerka, a village that budgeted 70 percent of the budget today stands. There's no elemental heat today. And the little things you have to do there are going to find 51,000 dollars for the governor to make the village live and gassed. 51,000 dollars! What is the cost of being single today? Another question is the question of farming. The village of Grommy(?) Umansk district. At the request of the villagers, a five - article criminal case against the head of the Shmalia Society was filed. What? So are criminal cases. And then what? What Should the Farmers Say? Where's their money? Where are their possessions? Nothing! Therefore, I ask the Attorney General's Office to address this issue. Such questions can be raised in other situations. Mr. Löshenko is concluding today to discuss changes to the Constitution among the citizens of Cherkaszczina. It is possible that such situations can be carried out in other areas. Thus, according to the protocols, most support the election of the President by Parliament. Although our analysis and the congregation of signatures show the opposite. I mean, they make people be sick again, lambs again, sorry about that word. Let's do this. I'm talking to you again, radio. That's how long it's been going to be like this. Another question. It is initiated by the governor as if the renter reports to his peasants as they use their pies, land and property. What? The village of Leski. But after that report, we have to put this social leader in jail. Twenty-two villages seemed to be invigorating. What? Quiet. Why would you do that? Indeed, the governor does not know the real situation in the country. He knows. It's all populism. It's all about trying to show the good for the real. And in closing, I'd like to say. Socialists today try to influence the situation through councils. That December 14th in Herson will be the election of deputies to the district council. I would ask the Hersonians to support Arkushenko, Naumov, Poor Asauluk. These are people who really don't keep quiet, who are really fighting for the situation in their region. I'm asking you to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u155	Thank you. Please give the floor to the national MP, Gorenik. Prepare Kadenyukov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u156	Eugene Hoornik, Valley Electoral District 89, "Our Ukraine" faction. Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I will not be original today on the subject of my speech, so the theatre of absurdity, which has the code name "Budget 2004", has a specific logic. This is not a legal logic, for the rules of the Constitution, the Budget Code, the Rules, and many other laws of Ukraine have been violated. That's not the mathematical logic, because two weeks all of the Ukrainian people are trying to figure out that 205 is more than 237. That's not even the logic of force, because power even in the hall is roughly equal, let alone outside the hall, where the whole of Ukraine is against this anti-national concession, so that the service channels don't show different people who seem to support this logic of government. That's actually the logic of the notion that 30-40 are particularly close and given to both officials and deputies for their own sakes want to push the rest of the House of Deputies and the whole state. The truth is that these concepts are valued at least at 6, or 10 billion dollars. It is true that one MP said that this government does not fight poverty. This government is really struggling with the poor and this way of adopting the budget next year puts the cross in Ukraine's entry into different international organizations, such as the WTO, like acquiring the status of a market economy country. I think I'm getting any credit. Who's gonna trust those economists? [[in quotes]] What they say at first is that 2.5 billion dollars of unadopted legislation are present in the budget, and then they say they have reserves. Of course, they have reserves, but these reserves are pre-eminent assets of power, which, through shadow schemes, is supposed to provide funding for its candidate in presidential outfits. And because of these notions, budget salaries have been sped up, heated or reduced by 600 million dollars, local budgets are being created, and similar things are being created. And so we can't help but mention our classmate, "I'm standing on a foothill in a ski park. Don't the skis go or I'm down." Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian people no longer want pasta on their ears, and they no longer want to be cobblers. And with that attitude of authority, the Georgian version is inevitable. This authority didn't even think that this law would go into effect until December 4th, 10 days after it was signed by the President of Ukraine, as if it were a guarantor of our Constitution. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" made an appropriate submission to the Constitutional Court and invites all Ukrainian citizens to whom, as of December 1, this year, they want to take the statutory salary of 237 dollars to sue those bodies that are trespassing on your rights. Let's fight! Let's fight!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u157	The word is given by the national deputy Kadenuk. Get ready for Melicov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u158	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Kadenyuk, 205 District, Cherniewec Region, NDP faction. Dear National Deputies! The main problem holding back the construction of the Dniestrow station is financing. The total cost of construction is 5.4 billion dollars. For the purpose of efficient use and concentration of funds, construction has been first developed in one hydroelectric unit. At the beginning of the construction project, 850 million dollars were won, and to launch the first aggregate, 324 megawatts of watt need 1.2 billion dollars. By July of this year, funding had been made according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers as a target electricity tariff allowance. And since July 17, this year, funding has been made in accordance with another decision from the State Budget special fund, which provides funding of 81.2 million dollars. To date, 36 million have been built. Of course, by the end of the year, or month, another 45 million dollars would have to come according to the decree. In view of the real state of funding, construction is carried out at a slightly lower pace than in 2002. According to a 7 - hydroelectric plant project, it was to be put into operation in 1996. Today, there is a real possibility of putting the first aggregate into operation in 2006, but to do so, it is necessary to include the construction of the Dniestrów GES in the state construction programme and to provide annual funding of 400 million dollars. The draft budget for the coming year provides funding for the construction of nuclear and hydroaccumulating stations in only 600 million dollars. But given that the state building program needed to start atomic blocks in 2004 at the equatorial and hop stations. And that's what it takes to start these blocks, so financing for the construction of a construction station is virtually undetermined. For the time being, construction is in such a state that it is necessary to install equipment, but without forecasting, even the 2004 indicators, to arrange the purchase of equipment and the construction is very difficult. The point is, according to the State Procurement Act, equipment should be purchased on tender grounds. This can be done when there is a financing plan, when there is a state-owned construction program, because it is not excluded that the winners of the tender can also be foreign enterprises. So there is a need for adequate government financial support and guarantees. There's another problem. This needs to be regulated along the border with Moldova in the buffered hydraulics area. Well, the offer's like that. the border to establish a border line along the technology fence of the right bank of the Dniester. In the days of the Soviet Union, the respective lands of Moldova were taken away from us, and the corresponding state acts are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u159	Thank you. The word has been given by the people’s deputy Melnik. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u160	Mikola Melnik, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnichtina Dear voters, yesterday and today the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made a number of decisions that have finally brought the agro-industry complex to its full bankruptcy, and budgeted for the same poverty that has already been discussed in this room. The President's amendment on VAT has been voted on. Now, as of January 1, 2004, farmers of all forms of property for meat and milk will be paid 20 percent lower than in the current year. He says he'll get away with it. I think we'll eat, we'll see. And that's not gonna work for a peasant. The budget does not include costs for insurance payments in the event of natural anomalies that have killed millions of acres of crops in the current year. The Cabinet of Ministers has also ignored the proposal of the Socialist Party and the Agrarian Committee and the allocation of part of the funds for the social development of the village. Motivation is absurd. Kabin replied that they did not have the information that was spent in the village to build their social sphere. And a number of others were amended to vote on the village's total collapse. In the absence of time, I will not count them. The majority who voted against the peasants for total destruction, the explanation of the behaviour of the deputies is quite simple: a peasant should know that MPs who vote against the village in favour of the government budget will receive a bribe of several million. Such obedient deputies will bring money to their district. Perhaps a few dozen villages can have gas, a school, a road. But tens of thousands of villages, millions of village workers will become even poorer, their salary after New Year's is going to be 40-60 percent lower than this year, which is still 140 dollars. Hence, the rich will become richer, the poor will fall into even greater poverty. Today’s mode prepares for elections. This is how he creates a foundation that will ensure victory and therefore saves for the majority, and, from here, that is how they feed their deputies. The electorate needs to know: The Supreme Council is crushed by criminals who are targeted for further looting of the village. These criminals against proportional elections, against political reforms. A specially designed program by corrupt oligarchs, which will lead to the total indifference of peasants to their land, and from here to the loss of motivation to work, to their lives in the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u161	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy of the school. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u162	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I'd like to start with a nice presentation for me, for example, that the Ministry of Justice, here I've already thanked the Minister of Justice of Lavrinovich, registered the Ukrainian People's Self-Defense public organization, and that's basically in 12 years of trying, and it finally ended with success. What I welcome all the young Ukrainians. Because they will have an organization with which they can fight the existing regime to fight for their future. There's a shame that there's already gone a reporter who's been paying attention to the GES of Dniester, and I'm from this rostrum and I'm not the first to raise the question about that. Oh, no, there's still a reporter. It's going to be very difficult to align the border line by demarcation because it's aligned by delimitation, and this criminal regime has already given up, virtually, by agreeing to Moldova's demand, giving up the Ukrainian territory, giving it the opportunity to put on a hydraulics, whose value is estimated at the order of billions of dollars now, positioning a next-door state post, and, in fact, it's only possible to solve this situation by getting political will. If this political will is given by Parliament, then, in principle, we can talk about the return of Ukrainian lands. The same is true of Tuzla now. We voted on the budget. There is an article on the restoration of negotiations on the Tuzla Line in the budget with all its disdain and all its antinationality. Now, I can say it's absolutely authoritative, 40 percent, that's 10 percent of the island is washed away, washed clean, the sand is already dissolved in the sea, and 30 percent is flooded with water. In fact, 40 percent of the island’s previous surface has disappeared, under water, which has gone a long way. Yeah? So basically, we've lost 40 percent of the Ukrainian island. About the budget. Of course, it's a thing that can be summed up here: the budget plus the existing regime is equal to love. This love of itself is nothing but love of the people, love of those who are to be cared for in this budget. And in general, last night's vote demonstrated that its shirt was closer to the body, and even the faction of the Agrarian Party went to something that, in principle, does not belong to any structure that represents any kind of corporate unity, particularly the peasants. They went against their own conscience, against their own faction, and they went to support the criminal regime. And I think in future elections they will reap the right result. And in conclusion, the ordinary thing that's been said here is the Georgian version, but the Georgian version will only be possible when the people, and at the same time we'll feel that we've been deceived. Unfortunately, we realize that all of us and our people have been fooled by the budget. But this understanding comes to the people when the bread is not 2 bracelets as it is now, and it seems to be a huge price, but 4 and 5, and when the price of beef is not like now, 4 and 5 bracelets, but 50 or 30 dollars per kilogram. That's when I think the street will be the lever that will remove the existing regime.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u163	The word has been given to the national deputy of Shurma. It will be followed by the Hare Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u164	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine united. Today, I want to focus your attention on the political situation that has taken place in the last month. From this rostrum, many representatives of our Ukraine have been talking about the horrors of administrative pressure, the constant provocations and, above all, the frightening threat of SDS (o) to the lives of most voters in the area. Each time before the turn of Victor Yashchenka’s Block in Lviv, Peter Olijnik or Oleg Tsagnibok, almost apocalypse warnings are being issued. Here are some quotes. "From the 15 regions of Ukraine there were reports that the forum will be attended not only by supporters of our Ukraine, but also by provocateurs who are paid by SDPU(o). We have official parliamentary questions, where it is said that they plan to bring people and provoke a fight between the delegates of the forum and the fighters," Peter Olijnik, "The Lviv newspaper." "Long before the Qiiv-Lviv Forum, two wagons were pulled off with people who were going to set up provocations. Believe me, SDPU is not a clan-oligaric structure for a long time, it's a terrorist organization." Oleg Tajnibok said that on Saturday the "our Ukrainians" had been informed that under the walls the arches would be run by a peak of supporters of the party SDPU(o). "A group of bandits will arrive from Carpathians and Volina, whose task is to provoke a fight between opposition forces and representatives of SDPU. There's a specific task: using cold weapons, or physically removing people who are rallying or hurting," Tuggnibok, "Lviv newspaper." I could continue to quote, but that's enough to understand that what the representatives of our Ukraine are talking about is a direct call for their sympathizers to fight. I want to stop at two points that are important. First of all, it is unfortunate that Peter Oliynik, who is the spokesman for Victor Yushchenk in Lviv, was an active participant in these prophecies. I wonder if it's what's in Victor Andryovich's head on the tongue of Peter Oliynik and Oleg Tagnibok. Secondly, all these statements I consider to be attempts to stabilize the situation in the region by shifting the responsibility for my own provocations to the SDR. It is obvious that the prophecies of "Our Ukraine" in Lviv have never been fulfilled. Because the Lviv district organization had no intention of conducting any action. All of this shows the following. "Our Ukraine" in Lviv is an initiator of possible mass clashes. "Our Ukraine" will be responsible for the consequences of possible provocations. "Our Ukraine" has become a political force that is intolerant to the thought of another. I'm not talking to Victor Yushchenk's representatives today. It's hard to talk to them. Blinded by the messiahs of his leader, Oliynik, Dragnibok, Stacks, Yavorowski, Chernobyl, and others, they are not able to think clearly. Don't overdo it, gentlemen, the messiah is with you. I want to address the factions that are in Parliament. For ten years, Communists were relentlessly beaten in Lviv. This is the situation today. It's "Regions" for tomorrow. Here are just two quotes. Janukovic travels to a foreign territory to show his strength. This area for him is Lviv, the main phorptist of Yushchenka. He's a bandit. A Bandit that is established in a foreign territory and captured by it. And the first visit takes place on the territory of his enemy, Stack's progress. During a meeting in Lviv with the voters of the national deputy Jaroslav Kendzior from the block of Victor Yuschenk "Our Ukraine". ‘ Galicina, the national deputy in front of the audience, told us that when he met with the public in Sambora in Lviv district, he had offered the inhabitants of Lviv in the context of the meeting of Viktor Yushchenek in Donetsk, a large city. "Somberland welcomes Yanukovich." And at the entrance to the Sambir Correctional Colony at the gate to secure a table "Here was raised Prime Minister Viktor Janukovich." And in the end, in this situation, the bloody rhetoric of Oliynik, Tegnibok and, unfortunately, the silence at the last parliamentary hearings can be a reality tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u165	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u166	Three seconds. And then we're just going to be fragments of the technologies of the granite and tonics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Bunny Ivan Alexanderovich. Stand by.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u168	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I went to this rostrum to express, on behalf of the Ukrainian People's Party, a decisive protest against the coming of the ruling Mafia-Oligarchic authorities against the rights and freedoms of citizens against the black lie that is being poured out on citizens of the state, and by which they want to cover up their free will and the spoiling of the good of the people. You just saw an example of this lie. Here are some examples of these words. First. Prime Minister Janukovic, as well as MPs from the parliamentary majority, constantly convinces everyone that Ukraine's government budget for 2003 is being implemented and the Cabinet of Ministers fully provides social guarantees to citizens whose income seems to be growing steadily. If that were the case, the citizens of Ukraine would have paid a minimum wage of 237 dollars on Monday. That is what was written in the State Budget Act 2003. That is, people were given any opportunity to compensate, to curb the increase in prices for bread and other products and goods, to utilities. What, then, did our Mafia concern for the people really come into play? You can see from yesterday's adoption by most of the 2004 government budget and the vote by the same majority on Tuesday on the 2003 budget adjustment. Last Tuesday, the parliamentary majority, with a proposal from the government, repealed the minimum wage bill of 237 dollars from December 1, instead of setting the minimum wage of 205 dollars. Thus, the poorest, 80 percent of the citizens in Ukraine, took 32 bracelets, and took them away. Because by such a decision, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Bolsheviks restricted the law. Although the Constitution does not allow this to happen. Yesterday this parliamentary majority confirmed this decision when the state budget was adopted. Each of us remembers the interview of one of the deputies of one faction that ends with the word "oh," he convinced us all that for the poor 205 is better than 237! What kind of eyes do you have to borrow from Syrka to convince people that you're right?Oh, my God! The other one. A week ago, shares in Ukraine celebrated the seventy-year anniversary of famine-genocide 32-33 years ago. I recall that the Supreme Council adopted a decree that clearly marked famine as genocide against the Ukrainian people and obliged the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to take action to adopt a UN General Assembly resolution that referred to famine in Ukraine as genocide. According to this decree, a memorial of the victims of famine is to be formed in the center of Kiev. Do you think the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have made this decision? After all, they stopped, but they began to look for reasons to prevent her from doing so. Instead of turning the governments of other countries into their faith, government officials and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including Tobacco and Natalia Zródna, began spreading rumors that the United States, the United Kingdom, was against the idea of genocide, while at the same time silenced Russia’s position. I'll be right with you. You haven't screamed for four minutes. And here's the masks off, the British Embassy said that Britain did not insist on removing the words "genocide." This was a Ukrainian proposal put forward by the Ukrainian side in a joint statement with Russia. So I want to say that the General Assembly has adopted a document that the Ukrainian authorities have submitted to it, and the Ukrainian authorities have submitted a document that is not in line with the decisions of the Supreme Council and that is unfair to the ten million victims of the people who have died from the ruling communist regime. And this regime will be condemned sooner or later, dear friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u169	Stojko, behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u170	Ivan Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear fellow MPs, distinguished radio listeners! The events of the last days and the attacks on Victor Yushchenk in the media have made me wonder: Who is doing the will of the Kiev customers who are these people? I'll admit, the conclusions came up very interesting. The most productive gallbladder on TV, Dmitri Korczynski, in the book "War in the Crowd" himself admitted that while serving in the army, he was hit on the head with a log and then pursued until he lost consciousness. Of course, I feel sorry for Mr. Dmitri, but the doctors say that such injuries do not go unnoticed. Now I'm going to go to my own Ternopolis. There's no less jaundice than the "Reporter" newspaper. Her editor-in-chief is Oreste. At the time, his privatized Galaxy cafe was called the Bandit cabac, and there are cases of arson, drug addicts, prostitutes, rapes and others called the editor-in-chief. And it is to this man that the patrons with the little zero at the end of the name trust to water the dirt of Victor Yushchenk and his team. This trust is well paid, because this newspaper "Reporter," or it's also called "Recitor" in the group, is free of charge, because no one buys it. As you can see, the swamp is expensive today in fashion. And we have data showing that every month in Ukraine, opponents spend about $15 million on the discredit of Victor Yushchenk. And the closer the election is going to go, the more that will go. If this money were to be used for the purchase of grain, the price of bread could be reduced rather than increased. Did the same patrons find a more worthy candidate in Kiev? No doubt. I read some interesting material in "The Gospel of Lies by Dmitri" in the newspaper "Ukraine Young". And since I have not heard Korczynski correct the facts there, I will allow myself to take advantage of some of this material. I'm not going to argue that Korczynski also had the name "Knocker," because I don't know exactly, but it's been proven that the development of it by the K.D.B. Authority looked promising. In fact, Korczynski himself admitted this, but it was quite absurd: it was as if he had been using a test contact with the senior management of the security services for his own good. So, if you'll excuse me for being open, nonsense could only come into my head after a blow, probably with a log. The true essence of Korchinsky is told by many politicians. In particular, Alexander Moroz considered him an instigator of the profession, and the leader of the “Youth - Hope Ukraine” political alliance, Vadim Gladchuk, called Mr. Dmitr a man who specializes in political provocations, doing so for a great deal of money. So from this rostrum, I'd like to ask one of the leaders of this program, the words of Ostap Bender: Why do I say that? And because Mr. Dmitry offers open lies to the audience and hopes they will believe him. Recently in the book of Melnik's Black Criminal Number One, I read Hitler's words, "If you lie, lie shamelessly. A big lie is believed faster than a small one. People lie at times in small things, but they are too ashamed to lie." And after that, Mr. Korczynski still calls the fascists "our Ukrainians"? He is not a fascist, but he who uses fascist methods in his work. Read the master’s comments in his writings. I quote, "We will adorn cities with ruins, not buildings."..
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u171	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u172	Ten more seconds. "Ruins and desolations enrich the face of cities." And another trick about lying. When he was asked, Mr. Korczynski: "Why does he say almost compliments on the TV screen of Ham things when he meets the columnists?"then they heard, "Television is watching millions, and your newspaper is reading tens of thousands." You see, the venerable viewers they think you are. And now I want to say it's over. Today, Korchinsky's status is a tool in the hands of those who probe the people through Inter, 1 plus 1 channels and others. The owners found themselves for the zombies of the "good" performers. However, the Ukrainian people are smarter than Korchinsky, and the conclusions will be correct, and I think soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u173	The word is given to the people's deputy of the Frost, to prepare for the Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u174	Anatoly Frost. The 83rd constituency, the Zaporez area, the Communist faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich. I have to turn from this rostrum to the Head of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Radchenk Vladimir Ivanovich. The point is that on May 30th of this year, on my invitation to the city of Tokmak Zaporizka district, the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine visited the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. He met with the city's head, during which he discussed the urgent needs of Tokmak in relation to the Watt "Southerndieselmash" and the former military airport. Then there was a meeting with the company’s team. So after this meeting, at the insistence of Georgi Korniyovich Krüchkov and I, as the deputy of the Supreme Council, met with a meeting with the Secretary of the then National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. The question of reproduction and the innovative development of industrial diesel capacity on the VAT "Southerndieselmash" city of Tokmak, Zaporezki district was discussed. The meeting was attended by: Head of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine - Kazakov, Head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Ukraine - Georgi Korniyovich Kruczkov, Deputy Secretary of State - Romanyuk, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine - Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine - Mylica, I, as National Deputy and Mayor of Tokmaka, and Deputy Director of VAT, Poeddendizemash. In view of the offer of this meeting, it was proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine develop proposals for integrated production in Ukraine of a modern diesel engine of up to 500 horsepower, process and submit proposals for a strategy to ensure the production of Ukraine's competitive diesel power generator of up to 500 horsepower. In a short time, to complete the process and approve the Watt Sanitation Plan, Semi-Dieselmash and Eugene Kirilovich Marcuk himself expressed the following position. The state should have its own engine, the more there is an enterprise such as the Southdendieselmash VAT, prepare an expanded report to the President on the outcome of the meeting, but should not wait for the President's mandate, the Minprompolitans, to report to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and make proposals. By July 1-2, the government should have a comprehensive plan of action for this enterprise, a political and economic assessment should be given of what is happening in this enterprise, once again in the control order of September, to put the issue before the board after the crisis and finally decide to bring the issue to the Council of National Security and Defence. The competent authorities should investigate and stop the practice of assigning sanatoriums that do not know or own a bankrupt enterprise. I have to say that in my address, I have been asked to speed up the consideration of the above-mentioned issue at the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, and I have placed great hope, clearly from the people of the city of Tokmak, that this issue will be considered. Unfortunately, the carriage is there now. So please, Adam Ivanovich, consider this statement a parliamentary request. Perhaps even though the leadership of the Supreme Council will be answered in response to my parliamentary address. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u175	The word is given to the national deputy of Cherniak. Get ready, Buttercup. And, dear colleagues, if we continue our meeting for 15 minutes, everyone who wants to participate in the discussion will take part. Will there be no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u176	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Allow me, without emotional or political charges, to express my views on the state budget adopted yesterday. First of all, I want to draw attention to the contradictions and inconsistencies in the position of the government. The government in its work programme, I, by the way, also voted in favour of it, aims to ensure economic growth. Economic growth is not possible without an increase in plentiful demand, and an increase in plentiful demand is impossible without an increase in wages. In my opinion, now the main task of activity and Parliament, and the government, is to increase the solvency of demand. For us, the main problem is the internal market problem. We're running around the world looking for places to sell. 60 percent of GDP we're trying to drive abroad. We have low capacity to demand businesses because they lack circulation costs and low purchasing capacity. And if the government were to focus on this, Parliament would have ensured both economic growth and the growth in the well-being of the people. I want to put a bold emphasis on what the main link of economic policy is now the growth of plentiful demand for people and businesses. And the solution to internal market problems, the activation of the internal market, that's the main problem. This is not the case at all, and measures are being taken in spite of this. Next. Can we ensure an increase in living standards, which is also a government task, without raising wages and in particular not raising the level of minimum wage as a basic social standard. The government announces an increase in the ceiling of the subsistence minimum, without narrowing the gap between the subsistence minimum and the minimum wage. It's economic nonsense at all. Finally, the adoption of the budget will significantly complicate the implementation of pension reform. We passed two laws. We want to raise pensions. If he does. and the budget in this kind of way does not allow the issue of pension insurance to be resolved in the way that it would have to be done, in accordance with the laws that we have adopted. Finally. Drugs. Never anywhere in the world does anyone raise the price of medicine. If we already had a certain level of drug prices, we cannot take off these so - called benefits for the sick. And finally, we can never give back to social politics. It beats the government, the Prime Minister, the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u177	The word has a national deputy, Lechchenko, to prepare Mihovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u178	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigivshtskin. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! During the current month, I met twice with a professional asset from Chernigiv region, the last meeting took place on November 26 in the premises of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions in Kiev. I will point out that all six Ukrainian national deputies were invited to the majority districts of Montenegro and three Ukrainian national deputies representing Montenegro in Parliament on the party lists of Ukraine's companies. Of the nine arrived, only five of them, as the majority of them had always ignored, except Oleg Petrov. Again, they confirmed that they were not interested in the views of the electorate. A number of social issues were discussed at the meeting. I'm going to point out that virtually all of them, the views of the national deputies of Ukraine and the professional activists have come together. But I made the following comments. First. So that the unions do not expect taxes from the authorities, but fight for the rights of the workers. The other one. In the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the majority do not have their own views, but they blindly follow the anti - national guidelines of the government and the Presidential Administration. Third. That Communists have always advocated the interests of the workers everywhere. So you have to finally choose who the union leaders are with. I want to focus on two important issues that have arisen in the course of the meeting. First. How to provide children with New Year’s gifts The Social Insurance Fund, with a temporary loss of employment since September 9, this year, number 79, has been centralizing the acquisition of these gifts in Kiev, according to state executive authorities. This means that local air - conditioning factories will be deprived of the possibility of producing such gifts — wages, taxes, and so forth. In addition, additional transportation costs for the transport of gifts from Kiev to the area. That's why I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with a request. Deal with the selected issue, taking into account the interests of the regions. The other one. During the government’s recalculation of pensions to citizens from January 1, 2004, the government of Yanukovic once again deceived the people of Ukraine. If the average wage for the economy in 2002 was previously determined as the basis for calculation, that is, 376 dollars, now only 306 dollars. Seventy of the billings were stolen shamelessly. Now what's absurd. Salaries will be included in the calculations and paid in hand, not counted. However, the old order remains for the civil servants. I am personally addressing Prime Minister Yanukovic. Dear Victor Fedorovich, explain what social orientation is then. Please consider my two questions to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u179	Thank you for your time. The word is given to the national MP Mihovich. After him, Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u180	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, voters! The question of parliamentary inquiries and appeals has to be raised on a number of occasions. Regrettably, the executive authorities continue to respond to them in general. The usual are the receipts, references to lack of evidence, distortions of facts, and so forth. To confirm, I'm going to go to the Derterathlete, which is headed by a former colleague of ours. Yeah, last month I asked him for his help to save the bankruptcy of the Carpathian multi-profession publication. And what did he get? A reference to the fact that the check had already been carried out in an additional way. The violations found were the case of the prosecution and the law enforcement agencies, and the aid I asked for was to be given to the collective itself. Similarly, this body responded to my request to involve the Zacarpathian District Administration in the activities of the local television company. It makes all kinds of counterfeiting happen in the area and gives rise to the illusions that it's going on and on and on. In fact, according to the newspaper Carpathian Truth, the situation is quite different. There are 25 places in Ukraine, 22 people's consumer goods, 24 jobs in gross agricultural production, 26th in service, 23rd in hospital beds, etc. This is the concrete result of what the so-called SDPI(o) governs, which already has a great deal of experience in enslavement to our country. As we usually make parliamentary inquiries out of the most acute complex problems and turn to the central executive authorities for help, we count on thorough analysis, to conclude, to intervene. And it's just a waste of energy and time, and it shows incompetence and extreme bureaucracy. Such bureaucraticism is common to executive authorities in places that act in a similar way, ignoring specific issues and therefore we are forced to appeal to the central executive authorities again. So, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I think that the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the leadership of the Supreme Council should take additional, more real measures to implement the law on the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy on requests and referrals to the central executive authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u181	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. According to the regulations, the word has been given to the national deputy of Rodionov, to prepare Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u182	Respectable radio audiences! Of course, you've all gotten used to us speaking, not for the members of the Supreme Council, but for the listeners and I, prejudging what questions will be next Wednesday at the parliamentary reception, would like to answer some of them on the radio today. But first of all, of course, everyone will ask how it could have happened that the MPs offered one living minimum minimum, the communists are offering it to make a minimum wage at the minimum wage, it's also a little bit to let you know, it's about three hundred forty with something bracelets. You can't live with that either, but at least something. Others suggest leaving at least what was 237. Thousands of people behind the walls of the Supreme Council insist: "Stand by these demands." And the Supreme Council has passed the law, which is enough for you, dear fellow citizens, and 205, enough for you. In fact, the first Deputy Prime Minister of Azarov Nikolai Janović, those who, so to speak, suggested something to please your participation, said, "These are the mourners." "The Cryers" he called these people. I want to tell you, dear fellow citizens, given his advice, you should probably keep your loved ones and relatives, who are starving, or who are frozen by the cold, no longer cry, you should rejoice - as the current regime ordered, so ordered by the current government. I do not rule that in the near future there will be a decree that the tone that is given in Ukraine, the tone of the common people, will be ordered to count the songs, as in, "take them to the margins," "this tune is called." That's the first one. Second. Surprising, of course, by the side. Parties that are part of the executive majority, such as the Agrarian Party, she says she is protecting the villagers, she is voting for the budget. But one thing I want to say is that this party resulted from the destruction of the peasants, the adoption of the Earth Code, which made them the poorest. And now this party is planning for a hundred years that it has enough to protect. A similar case is planned in the Supreme Council under the Housing Code. The Housing Code has already been passed by one of the parties of the Presidential NDP, it is planned, dear fellow citizens, that the majority of the population of Ukraine will, of course, be evicted from their premises because they do not receive a proper salary, they will not be paid for anything. But it will be possible to create a housing party that will destroy the people of Ukraine for many centuries. What is the conclusion? He said, “You will find him worthy of all happiness and freedom who goes to them every day to fight for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u183	The people's deputy Bondarenko has the floor. Get ready, Vashtuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u184	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Gregory Bondarenko, electoral district number 92, Kyiv district. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the government’s attention once again to the local budgets. There is a need to correct something in a more calm form, and I think there is a possibility. That's what I'm going to show you in my constituency. For the local budgets of the Kyiv region, the income taken into account in determining the amount of inter-budgetary transfers for the following year is estimated at 414 million, which is estimated to be less than the expected amount of 115 million dollars in the current year. This loss of income will make it impossible even to finance the full amount of wages. It is common knowledge that Kiev suffered the most from the Chernobyl disaster. This is the most painful problem. Once again, which, unfortunately, does not take into account this situation and for the following year, our budget. The debt to the Chernobyl population in the region is already more than 30 million dollars. But it doesn't have a penny in it again. The projected area of aid and subsidies for solid fuel and cremated gas, for example, will not be able to meet the need for only 3.2 million dollars. A few words about the budget of Slavotic. According to the legislation and decree of the President of Ukraine, this city is provided for a targeted subsidy to maintain the social sphere. It's only been planned for 3 million dollars, and it needs 9. And that's the problem. The budget for the following year was the first planned subsidy for the development of the municipal economy. And that's our plus. But the mechanism for using these funds does not withstand any criticism. Again, in the same Kyiv area, the acquittals mentioned are concentrated in the Vishgrad and Kyivovo-Svetoshin areas and account for 7.3 million bracelets respectively. These millions can be used only on one condition: If half the expenditure is provided by the local budget. And it provides 0.6 instead of 7ths in the Vishgrad region and 1.2 million in Kyiv-Swiatoszynski instead of 3.3 million dollars. It will not be possible to use the subsidy. There is an urgent need for targeted subsidies for the socio-economic development of the city of Borispol in the Obuchiv region. The city is 5 million and the area is 2 million. Problems are also hot for the many - native areas of John and Poland. I support colleagues who offer a calm and reasonable analysis of the state budget and make the most of it. We hope that my proposals will be taken into account. Consider my speech as a parliamentary request to the government by properly forming it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u185	Thank you. Catherine Timofievna Vashtuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, dear voters. For the first time in my office, I speak from this rostrum at the end of Friday. I usually did so by defending the law or by offering the law. And today I was forced to do so by those false accusations that are echoing from this rostrum against the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. We live by you, dear peasants, under the Fixed Tax Act. It was worked and conducted by our party, according to the Added Cost Tax Act. It's also party law and I'm the author. Under the Agrarian Development Support Act, 2004. The law that benefits the village is also my law. And more than thirty laws that pursue the only goal is to protect the interests of peasants. We were accused of adopting the Earth Code. That's right. The land was given to you today, peasants. And you're the owners of it, and you have to confirm it. Another thing that we've written down is not to sell agricultural land until 2005, and now I have a law that I have to extend for at least 10 years, because I am not ready for the economy today, not ready for farmers today, not economically or psychologically to put this standard into effect, or the land has not become the property of those who have recently accused agrarians of all earthly sins. On the one hand, they're people who trade gas, oil that have huge companies, but they're in opposition today. On the other hand, people who simply accuse without offering anything in return. I don't blame anyone. I always thank those deputies who support the country's laws. What does the countryman’s budget offer? Small. We don't agree with everything either, but it's better to have a budget than not to have one at all. The village is increased by 700 million. And the first article introduced in 120 million on the introduction of long-term interest-paying loans is a billion of us can buy technology when we save 100 million on short-term loans. For the first time, 140 million dollars for mineral fertilizers. 240 million -- to get to the price of animal and plant products and so on. Not all are included in the proposal. But it's 700 million more than it was last year. We all want more, but we can only share what we have. We'll support Law 4001, which details all the faction's proposals. And finally, I want to say. When the political ladies are yelling, the man’s teeth are pounding. We've never been in great politics, we didn't put up presidents, we always protect the interests of those who believe us. That's all we're going to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-28-m0.u187	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to participate in the discussion and speak in a different way, granted their wishes. I have been assigned to the appropriate services so that the requests, requests made today from the rostrum, will be officially made. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. On December 1 4th, there will be parliamentary hearings "Social Economic Problems From AIDS, Drug Addiction and Alcoholism in Ukraine and Ways to Overcome It." People's deputies will be working in constituencies on December 2-5. The next plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will begin at 10 a.m. on December 9, Day of the Government of Ukraine. The Government Day will consider the state of security in Ukraine established by the current legislation of social, economic, legal and constitutional guarantees in the field of social protection of veterans of work. Thanks for the job.
