ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please, dear fellows, take up your jobs. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:03:25]] Registered -431 There are 431 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear National Deputies, at the opening ceremony of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are present: President of Ukraine Leonid Danilovich Kuchma. [[Applause]] Members of the Ukrainian government led by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. [[Applause]] Representatives of the judicial branch of power, Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Selovon Mikola Fedosovic, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine Maliarenko Vasil Timofojovich, Chief of the Supreme Economic Court, Pritika Dmitro Mikitović. The Attorney-General of Ukraine, Piscohn Svetoslav Mihajlovich, head of the Chamber of Auditors, Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, representatives of the public, the media, responsible employees of the Office of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the next third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 4th call is announced. Dear colleagues, as you know, on February 1st at approximately 16 o'clock in Kiev time in the United States, 16 minutes before the landing of the Canaveral in Florida, about 60 kilometers above Texas, it was broken up into parts of the space shuttle of the repeated use of Columbia. Seven crew members were killed. In connection with the crash and death of the U.S. cosmonauts, four days of mourning has been declared. I would like to remind you that it was on this spaceship that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Leonid Kadenuk, flew into space. Among the crew members of the spaceship that died were his friends. I propose to honor the memory of the dead American and Israeli cosmonauts of the ship's crew with the repeated use of the Colombian stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u2	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukraine’s national deputies, Anatoly Ivanovich, Safiulin Ravil Safovich. Let's welcome them and wish them all the best. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, now, take your time. Dear colleagues, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we heard the head of the Clovis Committee about what happened on the mine, which resulted in the death of our fellow miners. Please honor them with a moment of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, on January 16th, the Central Election Commission recognized elected from the election bloc of the "For the One Ukraine" political parties and registered with the National Deputy of Ukraine in the one-maned national constituency of the Chebotarius Yulia Sergiyevna. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Julia Sergiyovna Chebotaryov, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u3	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by Ukraine’s Constitution, Ukraine’s laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we now have the Supreme Council of Ukraine in full constitutional composition -- 450 national deputies, including 24 women. We've already made up our minds and made a deal. Honourable National Deputies The President of Ukraine appointed the wheat Valery Grigorovitch judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 16 January this year. In accordance with article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act, the Constitutional Court judge of the Constitutional Court takes office from the day he took his oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine not later than a month after his appointment. Valérie Grigorovich Pscheničny is invited to the rostrum to take the oath of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please, Valery Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u5	I solemnly swear honestly and conscientiously to perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the State, to protect the constitutional rights and duties of man and citizen. Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine Valérie Wheschnychny February 24, 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome Valeri Grigorovitch to the high office of the judge of the Constitutional Court. We wish him success in the exercise of his authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u7	The statement is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u8	Dear President of Ukraine, distinguished Prime Minister, distinguished national MPs, colleagues, distinguished guests! The third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call, with which I welcome all of you to take a special place in the new country history. There are a number of reasons why I see them. First, the marginal importance of the stage in which Ukraine and the role of the Supreme Council are to take place now and most importantly in the future. Secondly, the complexity, the scale, and without exaggeration, the magnitude of the tasks that lie ahead of the MP's body, first of all, in the main sphere of its activities, is legislative. In large numbers, you and I are far from dependent on you, and in this first key feature of the third session, which will be with Ukraine and which will be at least by the end of the first decade of the new age. You've got enough to ask. Hopefully, for everyone, it's clear that during this period, the political structure of Ukrainian society is crystallized. It will be determined to a large extent by the political and party configuration of the Supreme Council. The reality is that the parliamentary environment is unlikely to be able to push out, bring new leaders into political advance, and change its configuration into already known personalities. There is no doubt that the starting point and the defining factor of this process will be the next presidential election, their coming closer and closer to each other, the open campaign will start somewhere long before the deadline is set by legislation, and first of all, in the Supreme Council. So I repeat: Parliamentarians, their choices and orientation, political behaviour and civic responsibility will determine very, very much, and above all, Ukraine's potential for a breakthrough in its development. We need to get on the road more direct, broad and dignified, more human, by fortifying and multiplying positive developments in the organization of public life. To my firm conviction, such a chance exists in the state. But in order to make full and maximum use of them, we need to keep thinking about who will come to power and how this authority will be organized and balanced and how it will meet the social needs and expectations of people. This is again emphasized for obvious reasons. Politics in Ukraine is too personal, that is to say the traditional question for us: where and how Ukraine is going, which will be with it tomorrow, will answer, first of all, the personality. We need to be realistic and not rule out any, up to clearly unwanted scenarios. For example, coming to the highest position of favoritism, or engaging in a powerful olympus by cynic toothless politicians. In the first instance, public policy will be replaced by a sub-kimish tumult of especially close - knit persons. In the second theft of the country, when all of us are required to live by law, they will be guided by favorable comments to them. All of this is too serious. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to give me a chance to speak. It is too serious not to break the question of Parliament’s responsibility again: political, party, moral, and stress not only for my cadence but also for what will follow. And here is another key argument in favour of the importance and urgency of political reform. We need to balance our lives, to put the power in place, and in addition to everything else, we need to get around it, because of the emergence, including the new co-ordinates, by the weight of priorities, to ensure a system of restraints and contrasts, the stability of state processes. That's what we need. The third session should then become a conscious step in solving the array of problems involved in making changes to the Constitution and in adopting the relevant laws. The need for such a step is not sudden enlightenment or insight. It is important for all of us to understand that yesterday it was premature to ask that question, and tomorrow it may be too late. Today's system for all its failures has served its purpose as a rather complex and sometimes critical political and socio-economic environment and has virtually exhausted itself. Now that the situation has changed significantly, a foundation has been created, a basis for further mature transformations, when some experience has been developed and tested, one can and should move on to a new stage of development, with the idea that the matter is so complex and the tasks, consequences and objectives are so far-reaching that there is a need for extremely accurate, surgically proven solutions of a complex nature. And if we view ourselves as responsible politicians, and we view ourselves as responsible, we should not avoid them or approach them in a public way. The newly built and organized system of power must rid itself of the conflict programmed in it, ensure the development of the country in a civilized and predictable manner, the steel and the assured viability of the state. Because for the time being, it seems that our lives and our work, and Parliament is quite a witness, often based on some illusions, random and subjective factors. At the end of the day, it shakes, not so many authorities, but the whole state and society. Ukraine needs to give the people peace, a sense of stability and foresight, and then an opportunity to live and work. The fact that political reform is initiated by the President and, in most of its principles, is close to or consistent with the positions and views of the Supreme Council inspires hope of working together with it, as well as the fact that such points of contact can serve as grounds for understanding and consensus in Parliament. The second feature of this session is that we have to identify ourselves with the place of Ukraine in the world, taking into account the internationally established matrix’s generally negative perception. Let's not talk about political prejudice, myths and speculation, it's all there is, but let's be honest and frankly say that in many ways, if not primarily guilty ourselves, we want to be loved to have an endless sympathy for a difficult and tragic fate, to be compensated by our own unbelief with constant crying, historically repeated and historically failed attempts to bow our heads to someone, to engage in support somewhere, not in our own people. Internal problems must be brought out of the country, spilling dirt on each other and trying to prove to foreign partners that all the problems of Ukraine, all the things that stand on it, lie in Parliament or President. This trend is being maintained and even strengthened, although every time it confirms a well-known truth -- whether it's the President or the Supreme Council or the government, we definitely hit the state, the Ukrainian people. I'm not saying any more of our voluntary requests for international sanctions and various kinds of monitoring, that sometimes the members of the official delegations seem to compete in someone who will talk more about Ukraine abroad. What about the launch of the presidential campaign? It is naive to expect that the sanctions imposed will automatically be lifted from Ukraine with a change of power. This is not the case in large - scale politics, international and interstate relations. As we looked at the debates around the foreign policy orientations and strategic goals of the Ukrainian lines, we were mostly exhausted in the coordinate system of Europe or Russia and were similarly determined to lose interest in ourselves and on the part of Europe and on the part of Russia. The problems of Ukraine’s political reputation in the world need to be solved in Ukraine and by its own forces. It's the only way to feel decent and confident in an international space where we have to implement our European and Euro-Atlantic aspirations and ambitions, expand and deepen our cooperation within the SND. Particularly strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, using, inter alia, the headship of Ukraine in the Commonwealth. This, in addition to everything else, I want to repeat not a new but unoldestial postulate on the most intimate relationship and the most powerful mutual influence between the internal and external policies of the state, direct and direct dependence and international authority and image on the internal situation, on the level of democracy, on the state of affairs in all spheres of social life. We need to make sure that the third session confirms Ukraine's practical Euro-Integration Configuration and its Parliament. I'd like to emphasize that it's practical. Because rhetoric predominates on this subject. The main thing is the adoption of relevant laws, the harmonization of national legislation with European legislation. That is to say, the session should be optimally used to deepen the legislative and practical level of cooperation with the EU and NATO in order to fully implement the full implementation of commitments to the Council of Europe. I'll tell you more. We simply have to create all the prerequisites for asking questions about the removal of monitoring from our country. Unlike some politicians, I believe that Ukraine is already capable of coping without crutches. The Supreme Council can and should use the forms and means it has to eliminate, or at least a significant reduction in differences, if not a gap in the perception and perception of Ukrainian society, of the values, norms and standards of the world that we have adopted as Western. What is it? Until recently, the Ukrainian people had the integrity of the world’s institutions. When we opened it to the world, we deformed it, if we didn't destroy it, it turned out that European values didn't penetrate the people enough, and we didn't master their consciousness, while the upper layers of society adopted them and made them very self-evident. Such differences have little to do with the economic sphere, since our fellow citizens are already ahead of market realities. And the main line of water division, if you want, is separation mainly because of moral principles, the way of life through human relationships. We have to help overcome the social crisis, remove the internal tension in society, which likens it to unevenly heated glass, which eventually gives a crack. I refer this to the decisive prerequisites for a course in joining the European community, in this matter of our historical perspective, our destiny. The words of the historian Klutowski of his work "Western Influence in Russia After Peter," which can be applied entirely to today's Ukraine: "Western culture is by no means an object of choice to us, it imposes on us the force of physical perfection. It's not the light that you can hide from, it's the air that we breathe from without even noticing it. But in the air, everything is not okay, and it needs to be able to breathe, monitor its chemical composition and temperature in order to make its life better than it does in the West. That's what's up with us, it's about our will and our mind." I don't think we can say that anymore. The way we're going to set our lives further, the direction we're going to move is up to the Supreme Council, and it's going to be the key constitutional authority -- the definition of the principles of internal and external politics. Let's try this at least during today's session. The third feature lies in the plane of the relationship with the executive power. For various reasons, Ukraine has been and remains a hostage to the uncertainty of these relations, although attempts have been made to give it a clearer, more specific character, and to introduce it into constitutional order, starting with the Constitutional Treaty. Such efforts, let the clumsy, half-managed, not all-balanced, broaden the base of understanding and consensus in the Supreme Council, to set up a real dialogue and cooperation with the Cabinet of Ministers, are still ongoing, but because of the lack of a proper legal basis, the lack of structure of Parliament, which once again updates the need for constitutional reform, we only get a short result. In recent times, mutual encouraging steps have been taken in this direction. The main and most objective criterion for their effectiveness will be the consideration and approval of the Ukrainian Cabinet’s programme of activities, which should be done after the annual letter of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. Let us hope that this will be a good basis for further work together. At the same time, we must, and in the first place, ensure that the Supreme Council interacts with the government against the influence of the subjective factors that are essentially torpedoing it. If one of us has not fully realized the dangers of such games, let me say directly, frankly and honestly: The Supreme Council will either be the Supreme Council, or it will be nothing. I'm sure you won't agree to the last one. The Supreme Council will be the Supreme Council. Overcoming the separation from life, its real demands, needs, and queries is a fourth feature of the session. In doing so, it should be considered first. The government in general, and Parliament in particular, must move away from the closure of itself, its specific contradictions and interests, and finally get rid of the illusions that the problems on cave hills are the problems of the whole of Ukraine, which are worrying or not of every ordinary Ukrainian. In principle, it is important that we do not get back into the session room with rallying passions, flashes, and flashes that promise us the very near future, namely that parties, corporate or personal problems and problems do not appear to be popular words, aspirations. Let's do this, as it were, in a busy time. I mean, the political component in Parliament's work should not dominate the legislation. This is natural and understandable, especially if you consider the huge amount of work you are doing for the third session. It's not like that today, it's almost 800 bills. The legislative face of the third session should determine the Tax Code and the basic pension laws that we are obliged to finally adopt. I don't think it's necessary to just prove the burning need for their approval. This has been fully described in the course of the last election campaign. Thus, promises and advances must be realized. Problem number one is the quality of legislation. Too much idle walking in our work. It's got to be admitted. Of all the legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the very first time it was convened, new laws of general law or adopted in a new edition of only 508. I don't mean it since the early '91st. In doing so, we continue to be guided by nine acts, including codes adopted under the Ukrainian RSR. The rest - repairs. How this works can be judged by such examples. Only during the third, fourth, amendment to the value added tax law was made 71 times. The corporate income tax law is 65 times. And if you take all the long - suffering fate of these documents from their existence, there is no living city left on them. It seems that some of the executive heads begin their work in a new post by trying to apply the relevant legislation to themselves. Reading or not daily, they each make a discovery for themselves and take them to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council. Where, then, will it take time to carry out these acts? That is not the case with us, dear colleagues. In the end, it turns out that we're adding jobs to the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and, of course, the Supreme Council. This is not about needlessness, secondaryity of changes and additions to existing legislation. Life is not in place and dictates its own adjustments. This is about the fact that the benefit of Parliament can and should be much higher. The conclusion is clear: All the subjects of the legislative initiative and, above all, the largest suppliers of the bills. Government and people's deputies need to significantly increase their responsibility for the quality of everything, with which they join Parliament and the Committees of the Supreme Council for the quality of the products they offer for consideration. All of this should be concentrated in the legislative system for 2003 and the following years. Dear national MPs, distinguished guests, raising and sharpening a number of issues also make me feel that the Supreme Council, the highest representative body of the state, which most adequately reflects social sentiments, has the lowest rating. It has to be admitted, it's a reality. There are many reasons. But some of them lie on the surface. First. The unchangeable negative attitude toward the Supreme Council is far from common representatives of other state and political structures, who continue to practice their instincts at its address, which is then willingly picked up, circulated, promoted to the public at large. The other one. Fire on injury, if you can put it that way, from our own environment, which is run by a number of deputies. We've got to give it right. The subtleties of parliamentary life, and too much of the kitchen, the springs and mechanisms and incentives that work here, they know. However, they measure all of this to their own bastard, and I emphasize, to their own vision, their own perception of the world. They speak and act lopsidedly, biasedly, and tendingly. Accordingly, the Supreme Council looks in the eyes of people, and not only in Ukraine, but also in the congregate of the nebula, the periphery, the ignorant, and the corrupt. And all of this often rises up as a flaw, and it's inherent. I mean, internally by nature. Thus, they are virtually incurable and incurable. All of this is about politics and morality. The attitude, the level of trust in the Supreme Council is the attitude and level of trust in power in general. It's a big score, and it's a big deal to the state. Those who yearn for a lower score below should not give themselves a round of applause. It comes down first of all, the ceiling of these politicians themselves, who have already been properly valued and valued. As we cultivate and cultivate national faith and trust in the Supreme Council, we can and should succeed in bringing it into line with every word, spirit, and letter of its constitutional purpose and calling. Of course, this is much more difficult and difficult than moving on to a new parliamentary readjustment. The task is to create a new line of conduct that is related to today’s realities and tomorrow’s tasks, in other words, to become a full and full branch of authority. What it takes is responsibility and once again an awareness of the responsibility of all of us, professionalism and once again professionalism, solidarity and solidarity, human and national, national and human. We love and honor our great predecessors, so let us listen to them. Let's say, to Boris Grinchenko's words, "We're non-solidarity between ourselves, until we're individualistic, that sometimes the simplest work we can't make as a group." Extrapolating to our parliamentary modernity this reprimand of classics, and it was once said that he worked more than he lived, I will allow myself to add only one thing: a third session should bring, apart from specific and weighty ones, and better yet, a qualitatively new shift in the law-making work, and a fundamental review of each of us's attitude towards the body to which the Ukrainian people delegated us and for which we bear the full responsibility. This may seem too high-profile, but Parliament is really called upon to be on the sharp approval of ideology, real and active patriotism, the ideology of open society and the transparent economy, the uncompromising opposition to corruption and clanism, the ideology of honesty and order, the ideology of Ukraine's belonging to the European community, civilised co-existence with neighbours and strategic partners, the ideology of love for the Fatherland in a modern globalized world. I want to finish the speech with the wishes of each of us and all of us: to follow the simple and wise truth of old: love for home is an act of clear intelligence. May this love always be with us; the mind never betrays us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, during the second session and during the inter-sessional period, a group of Ukrainian national deputies for their active participation in the law - enforcement work has been awarded honorary credentials and credentials by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Allow me to carry out the commission, your commission, and to hand these letters to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u10	For credit to the Ukrainian people in favour of the establishment of an independent state, the development of democracy and a strong personal contribution to the legislative work to reward the National Deputies of Ukraine by virtue of the Honorary Literacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine: the Biostor of Oxana Volodymyrna, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs; the Richer Raís Vasilovna, the head of the subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on issues of health, motherhood and childhood; Bondarenko Vladimir Dmitrovič, the head of the subcommittee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on issues of state building and local self-government; the formerly Pharithian Philipovich, the member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on questions of economic policy, the administration of national affairs and the Middle Eastern government; the formerly Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u11	Dear National Deputies! If you don't have any objections, let's take a break for 30 minutes now, after the break we have to look at and accept the whole document for work during the third session, I mean the order of the day of the third session. A break of up to 11 hours is announced for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u12	Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Dear colleagues! Please take up jobs, we'll keep working. Dear colleagues! In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Board, the apparatus is working on a draft order for the day - to - day third session. Bills have been introduced that have come to Parliament during the inter-sessional period. After yesterday’s Conciliation Council, the number of draft bills in the agenda increased by more than 100 documents, taking into account virtually all proposals. I now propose to us, fellow honourable Members, that we arrange for us to make our decisions today on a day-to-day basis, and we must vote in order for us to make decisions today, that is, to withdraw from the Rules. I'm asking for your attention! I'm voting on the proposal. Now we're going to look at the project, let's just turn it on! But we have to include questions so we can look at them. There is no procedure to consider! Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Please take your seats, everyone. I ask you to vote for us to make a decision today in the order of the day's third session. Please vote on this proposal. Please be supportive. [[11:14:22]] For 327 For 327, the decision is made. Out of the procedure, please, the Turkish People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u13	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have listened very carefully to your report. There were a lot of interesting points, especially we liked about both the current President and the Social-Democratic Party, that's what we fully support. [[united]] But we need to be able to listen to the faction leaders who also have something to say at the opening of the session. So I'm making an offer from the faction to give the opportunity traditionally, as we do on Tuesdays, and I'll remind you, this is Tuesday. Allow factions to speak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u14	I think, honourable national MPs, we really have 45 minutes today under the Rules for statements with queries, statements, factions, if it's your will, let's do it this way. We'll take the day's schedule and 45 minutes' time for inquiries, statements, and then we'll work on our schedule. Is there no objection? In view of what we discussed and practically took into account all the suggestions. I put to the vote to accept the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in general. Please vote. Vote please! Please be supportive. I'm asking you to support the distinguished national MPs. [[11:15:55]] For 272 The agenda for the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted. Dear colleagues, since we have full consensus, there are understandings, all other questions, suggestions on the weekly Conciliation Council we will agree and make. I don't think we're gonna have any problems with that. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Tuggnibok.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm very sorry that you've asked the whole question right now, not as a basis, but I would still like to ask you to bring up question number 2330, which, for unknown reasons, has somehow not been put into the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council. This question concerns the establishment of a temporary committee of deputies for the activities of the Lviv Tax Administration. The commission of the interlocutor who worked in Lviv did not work properly. Sadly, the commission did not respond adequately to the facts. And in order to address this situation in the Lviv region, I think it is necessary to make this decision, which has long been put into order for the day session of the Supreme Council, necessarily. Please support me and put me to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I have such an offer. I'm asking those bills, those draft regulations, those questions that people's deputies think we should include in the agenda of the day-to-day third session, we'll pass them on to me and we'll vote after 45 minutes. Is there no objection? 45 minutes we'll make statements, speak from factions, then vote. Please report this to the secretariat. Let the Secretariat generalize and put it to a standstill. No, let's put it in the secretariat, let them generalize. National deputy saint, please. Ah, Dobkin? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is no order of the day in the hands of the national deputies, but not as the first. We all remember how much legislation was passed in the first reading on the oath of judges, on the code of judicial ethics, and on changes to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure. A group of national deputies insists that these bills be included in the agenda as a priority. And so that the chairman of the Onopenko Committee, Vasil Vasilovich, does not stop court reform and feels that these bills expect a society that is tired of judges like Borodin in the Kharkiv region. He himself has a leading position in the Court of Appeal, but in 16 years he has not taken an oath. We insist on the immediate incorporation of these bills into the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u18	I think that's a technical question. I would ask the committee to speed up the consideration of this issue so that it can go from chapter two to chapter one. National Deputy Carmazin. Then Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, as early as October-month last year, I passed Bill 2297, which is called "The Office of the President of Ukraine and the Advisory Counsellors and other auxiliary bodies and services that ensure the exercise of the powers of the President of Ukraine. This bill is now most needed in the state, because there is an unconstitutional, illegal body that has 1,500 people who have funding, as in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is now actually a de facto government, a government that is a government of Ukraine. Moreover, even the heads of his administration, such as Vasiliev, address the UN, address the Security Council, not the Security Council, but the European Council, the institutions of Europe. So I think we need to adopt this law. I would now like to vote in favour of the inclusion of the 2297 bill in the first order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u20	Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u21	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, let's vote on those bills that have not been passed on as a basis, and then we shall vote in general. In this regard, I ask that draft 2230 be included in the vote and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to state on board all the results of the vote. We put the ruling to the vote as a whole. We decided on the order of the third session. Now, in general, all of your proposals, we're going to vote on them. If you want. I asked to be transferred to the Secretariat. In 45 minutes, we will vote on them. Introduce yourself, please. The Kafarsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u23	In your speech today, you spoke of the consolidation of the political forces. And it really is. The foundation on which the Ukrainian Parliament will work. But I've asked you very much to introduce the Kendeur Bill today on the recognition of UN-OPA as a belligerent party. This will strengthen our cooperation. And please bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to submit to the Secretariat the name of the bill, the number for the registration of the bill we vote on. Would you please, People's Deputy Saint now? Yeah? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u25	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am in favour of priorities and I believe it is imperative that the Prosecutor's Office Act be put into order. The authors are the national MP Carmazin and the Potecko. A group of people's deputies from Kharkiv Region have found that the Prosecutor's Office needs an updated, truly constitutional status. Without real authority, the Public Prosecutor’s Office cannot resist, for example, a court order. Not only in the Kharkiv region, for example, when the Deputy Court of Appeal, Borodin, has not only stained the court’s robe, but has annulled the local elections, falsified the court’s documents, has prevented the prosecutor from going to court. The prosecution needs to be supported now and through a new law. I ask you to recognize the bill of MPs Potebenko and Karmazin as a priority and to consider it in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u26	This bill is included with the commission of a committee to work on. National MP Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u27	Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, you made a very good offer. Let us pass all the bills that need to be voted on and, once the factions speak, vote them as they were. Because we reopened the debate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask again the factions, the leaders of factions, the national deputies. If they believe that draft legislation should be added to the agenda of the day-to-day session, please refer it to the Secretariat for 20 minutes. Name, registration number of the bill or draft regulation. The Secretariat would like you to generalize and hand it over to me, and then we'll put it to the vote. Is there no objection? Now we're going to talk from factions with applications, queries, information, messages. 45 minutes. I'd like to ask the factions to apply. Please explain to the board the results of the vote -- was the request of the people's deputies -- for the order of the day of the third session, by factions. The faction of Ukraine’s Agrarian Party has Catherine Vaschuk. Prepare Petra Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u29	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. On behalf of the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention once again to the problems of the agrarian sector of our nation's economy. Today, the government of Ukraine is known to be actively working on a program of its activities that will depend on a great deal, including the further fate of our village. We ask our government to become one of the first governments to become, not worded, but, in fact, to make agrarian politics a strong one, but agriculture really a priority. And it doesn't take that much. In view of the difficult economic situation in the countryside, the problems that have recently been raised at parliamentary hearings need to be addressed to the government today, and we ask that we start funding the budget, in particular with regard to village credit, seed support, animal welfare, technology lysis and so on. This will certainly help to speed up the stability and state of the APC, to ensure that agriculture is prepared for the spring-field work complex. This year, we can't allow a situation like last year's when the price imbalances cost the villagers more than 2 billion dollars. From the first steps, the agrarian block of the new government has taken seriously the formation of market regulation mechanisms, but all this work needs to be continued and deepened. In the end, such arrangements should be made: the purchase of bread by market mechanisms, the price of milk and meat, grain, sunflower, and agriculture simply cannot exist. Dear colleagues, many of whom are present, are aware of the situation of sown winter grains as a result of the weather conditions prevailing today in Ukraine. Sown 8 million acres [8 million ha] of bread in Ukraine, more than 2 million acres [2 million ha] have been killed or are in critical condition under a solid ice crust, or are extinct without the protection of snow cover. Hundreds of thousands of peasants were destroyed. Loss is more than 2 billion dollars. Immoderate efforts and substantial material resources will need to be moved in the spring. So given that today's village has no agricultural crop risk insurance, we ask the Cabinet of Ministers to help farmers cope with the effects of natural disasters. We also look forward to the support of colleagues in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u30	Thank you. From the factions of the Communists, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko speaks. To prepare Nightshenko Mikoli Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u31	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In September last year, I was speaking out of this rostrum at the opening of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and today, i.e. five months later, I could repeat my then speech, because the political and socio-economic situation in the country and the tasks that I think are facing the Supreme Council have unfortunately become even more complicated and worse. Ukraine entered in 2003 with problems that have plagued it for 12 years and are exacerbating the political, economic, socio-economic crisis. In addition to mass unemployment and unemployment, the tinnitus of the economy, the criminalization of government, the reduction of social protection, crime and corruption, the special threat to national security, that is, the preservation of our state, is the loss of state leadership for the benefit of every Ukrainian citizen. The fierce struggle for a presidential chair that has already unfolded among criminal clans in Ukraine is distracting from solving these first and most pressing problems. As a result, we, the faction of Communists, insist, first of all, that we consider a number of relevant bills aimed at implementing the policy of the creation and development of our state, which would consistently protect the lives of the labour people and the principles of social justice. First. This is an urgent review and adoption of amendments to the Constitution with a view to redistributing powers between branches of government, this is the adoption of a new Law on the Election of National Deputies on a proportionate basis. that will strengthen the responsibility of the political forces to implement their programmes and enable voters to choose a state development programme, not those who buy voters with money today. To amend the Law on Local Self-Government with the aim of eliminating the state administration and moving to the formation of the executive bodies of the relevant councils, to establish a State Institute for the Rule of Law of Self-Government Authorities and public law enforcement agencies to monitor the activities of public officials. It's different. It's the timely adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Act to restore leadership by or through other processes in Ukraine, the adoption of a law on the return of basic industries to the general public and the transfer of them to the operational administration of the state; the strengthening of the Supreme Council's control function in terms of the verification of the implementation of earlier laws; and the urgent consideration of draft laws introduced by the Communist faction on the granting of rights. National enterprises on the principles of national regulatory policy in the field of economic activity, support for the APC, and preservation of the land. Third. Special attention should be paid to specific problems of certain types of population, veterans, and young people. Four. We also -- the communists -- insist that, during this session, we increase the responsibility of officials and courts for corruption. We are convinced that strengthening governance and the responsibility of power should help ensure that every ton of coal, steel, ore, harvested crops, produced electricity, tissues should work for every citizen of Ukraine, not for a bunch of oligarchs. And to the end. I ask you very much, fellow members of the national parliament. We cannot stand outside the threat of a new world war today, so the Communist faction brought to the attention of the Supreme Council a statement on possible developments in Iraq and expressed support for the resolution of the United Nations Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u32	Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich is invited by the deputy faction of the political Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine and Trudov Ukraine. Please. Prepare Alexander Aleksandrovitch Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u33	Mikola Noshchenko, 160 constituency, faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, Labour Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The subject of my statement is the 2003 budget issue. It has not been possible to dry up the ink of the signatures of senior officials under the main law of the year, as the principals of the funds, along with the government, are only being measured to its execution, and the document has already become the subject of close attention by many national deputies, groups, and factions. The 9 bills that the working group was talking about yesterday, this is the second time a working group is gathering and the number of alternative bills is increasing every day, there are even alternative targets for the new budgets of 2003 and the budget committees, so we're going to be in the hands of the advice and our budget committee to create a new budget. The position of our faction is to listen and support -- to make a moratorium on budget changes in the first quarter, to get what we accepted. I agree, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, but I suggest at least on the first quarter, and then by the end of April, taking into account the budget's arrivals to approach its changes. This will add constructiveness to our work. One explanation is that the budget has become an object of political debate, and this is supported, including by the leadership of the Supreme Council. In the process of processing, I want another fact, namely, an explanation today can give a glimpse of individual articles. I did not understand, for example, the author of 65 articles. Why did the process of processing come up with individual words that reduce the availability of special funds for use for purposes defined by the statute? In the newspaper, a published budget in one edition, another text is officially sent out. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know how you listen carefully to the requests of the deputies. Is there a request as to how a parliamentary request to resolve, please, where do the words go, who is to blame, how can such a thing happen? You lose confidence in accepted documents at all. Next question. When I worked on the individual problems of my electoral district during the weekend, I came across the reluctance of the principals to listen to the proposals of the national deputies, that the use of public budget funds to support the sectors. Yes, for example, for the Ministry of Agriculture, for the needs of the village in the second year, 74 million has been actually used to support the production of animal production, vegetation, 120 million is credit losses, the mortgage lending of construction workers -- 3 million, the acquisition of lysing technology -- 59 million, the farmers -- 5 million. Question: Who are the lucky ones? I couldn't quite figure it out in the district. Faction position. State support conditions for enterprises of all forms of ownership and farming in the countryside should be equal and transparent. National deputies of Ukraine, district government administrations, district government administrations, taking into account natural conditions, culture, and so on, should participate in the support mechanism of the country. It's not just the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, it's true.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u34	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u35	This applies to the Ministry of Education, for example, the distribution of funds for the acquisition of computer technology, the Ministry of Health for the purchase of insulin for the sick, the Ministry of Culture for the promotion of regional cultural initiatives and amateur arts, and so on. This will bring the center closer to the regions and add success to the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u36	Alexander Alexanderus Frost of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u37	Deputies! Dear radio listeners! Our faction’s deputies held about a hundred meetings in various regions of Ukraine in two weeks. The impressions, frankly, are very discontenting. There is nothing to talk about, and when touching villages in particular, it must be said that it was close to disaster. And notorious reforms in the countryside, including through the criminalized Land Code and the same presidential decrees, prove the need today for the Supreme Council to take responsibility for this situation, to remedy the situation. The destruction, the ruin, the looting is complete and the most dangerous, which can soon be turned around, the trade twist of the earth. We also know that sanctions on the part of international financial structures and individual states for the laundering of Ukraine's dirty money have also become a fact and must be responded to. There are other examples that show that power in Ukraine is ineffective and that the system of power needs to be changed. That is, the slogan behind which the opposition democratic parties went to the 2002 elections was confirmed by life today, and we must do everything we can to ensure that the change of power takes place. We listened carefully to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin's speech, and I want to say that I was most interested in this very part of the need for a balance of power, the need for its redistribution. Let's do everything we can to make this redistribution really happen. And for that, I think, and in the view of our faction, the factions of others, we have consulted with the Communists, our Ukraine, the factions of some of the majority and the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, we need to review the law on elections on a proportional basis, to consider the law, including the elections to local authorities, because today there is a slow attack on local self-government. What happened in Suma is that Vladimir Petrovich Szczerbán is there today at our meeting, in Makiyivka, elsewhere, indicating that the regime is trying to completely drown out local self - rule. Therefore, the law on elections to the local authorities also needs to be the primary in today’s session. But why does this happen in our power? Because the authorities rejoice in their impunity, the authorities play in power. One evidence of this is the content of our statement signed by the leaders of the factions — Yushchenko, Simonenko, Moroz, and Timoshenko — on the basis of the existence in Ukraine of the so - called Order of St. It's an outrage! I just never thought that I should go to any of the deputies or ministers simply by name and by parent, but it turns out that this charter should be addressed to Your Excellency, the Chevalier, the cavalry of such an order and so on. Well, if you'll excuse me, "blow up the world," as one of my acquaintances says.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u38	Please finish, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u39	I'll be done in a minute. We need to put order in this regard. We're talking to the President -- figure it out: either these people are working in that order, or they're really Ukrainian citizens, patriots and government officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u40	From the Democratic Initiatives MP. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish is invited to attend. To prepare Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrný.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I would like to continue the logic of Alexander Alexandrovich and say that we need to light up the light as legislators who bring into society not only the rules of the game but also the new ideas around which the Ukrainian nation forms. We have a lot of debate about what needs to be done and how to do Parliament, and what kind of consolidation tools should be the main tools. I think it's a historical question. The tool for the consolidation of our society, just like ourselves, should be Ukrainian national interest. And today, breaking up between two large and powerful geopolitical magnets, Europe and Russia and Asia, Ukraine must choose its national path. To do that, we need to find here in Parliament not just an understanding built on any ideology or specific formula that can become a philosophical stone to advance our legal work. We have to be accountable to the Ukrainian nation for this national Ukrainian interest. And in this respect, the Ukrainian Parliament does not at this time demonstrate systematic legislation. Unfortunately, as we continue the logic of one of our colleagues, in this Parliament, we scrutinize legislation and thus multiply only problems. I would like to say that in the agenda of only the third session, we have made so many tax changes that could result in a loss in the State budget of at least 4 billion dollars. And if this is added to the systemic benefits that we provide in the field each year, in other areas there are four percent of the gross domestic product, that means that we are not working on progress. Not to create our national course, but to multiply our internal crisis. I think that the discussions over political reform cannot remain a slogan, because political reform has at least two strategic directions. One of them is really related to balancing existing Ukrainian power and creating an effective, powerful mechanism to promote the development of the Ukrainian nation, to create the impossibility of usurping power with any branch of power. Another direction means nothing less than building a system of society that is constantly working on progress. In this respect, the most important thing for this time is acceptance in the first half of the year, which means that this is the main task for our third session, the Tax Code. By no means did the report of the Head of the Supreme Council produce impressive figures today when two basic budgetary laws — the Value Added Tax Act and the Income Act — are covered. And in this context, we need to talk not just about the adoption of the Tax Code, but we need to talk about the aggregate system, namely, the state execution and social development, because the adoption of the Tax Code in isolation from pension reform, from defining the new priorities of the organization of wage pay to Ukrainian workers will have no prospect. In conclusion, I would like to contact you again. We demonstrated at the adoption of the 2003 State Budget a high degree of consolidation, an understanding of this national interest, realizing that this budget is imperfect, it does not fully reflect the social interests of the nation, at the same time it has shown once again that we can work. That's what the group Democratic Initiatives calls for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u42	From Julia’s block, Timoshenko is called Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko. Please. Prepare the Hare, Volodymyr the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u43	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have been with you for 10 years, almost 11 years, reporting on the number of laws we have planned to adopt, the number of laws we are adopting. But I think there's a lot of lawyers in this room, and they can say that most of these laws are destroying even the rest of the legal base that we had with you. Chaos in the legislative process has already gained so much that we need to stop at the quantity and look at the quality of the laws that we adopt. It's just terrible to see when you can lay down all the laws on two tables, and one foot of the laws directly contradicts the other. The point is that there is no clear, defined strategy that authorities want to do. And legislative chaos is a reflection, a reflection of chaos in the heads of our rulers. And so I want now on behalf of three factions: Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, led by Alexander Moroz, and the faction that I am leading, I would like to announce those statements that have been accepted, but have not been understood by citizens, because they have been blocked in the media. We believe that today, in order to radically change the situation in Ukraine, we need to combine all the democratic, all the forces that are understandingly ready to deal with the construction of our country. And it's this session that has to become a session of this connection. And the statement from the first of the three factions is that there is a systematic, highly professional work in the Office of the President today to disengage all opposition forces. There are quotations that, for example, our faction is saying something bad about our Ukraine. Ratings are given, for example, to sow some kind of dissension between opposition factions. And so in this statement of three factions, we wanted, first of all, to urge all the democratic forces to join, second of all, to say that we are fully responsible for any attempt by the authorities to divide into opposing ranks, predestined for failure and imminent collapse. We're going to be the only ones, we're going to set aside all ambitions, all ideological differences, we believe that we're going to be more than that, because many people in major districts that have gone through think that our connection today is the main one. We also want to state that we are continuing the action "Rise Ukraine!".. And on March 1, this year, the All - Ukrainian Extraordinary Assembly of Deputies of All Levels of Opposition From Village, Village to City, and District Council. I want the people who are listening to us now to know that we're still fighting and fighting. And this process cannot be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u44	From the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine, Vladimir Rabbit has the floor. [[united]] To prepare Paul Mathvienne from the European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u45	The Honorable Presidium! Dear colleagues! It is well - known that the world’s societies have been demanding for several years from Ukraine the adoption of laws aimed at combating the laundering of dirty money. Finally, the FATF International Organisation, which coordinates the fight against laundering, gave Ukraine the last opportunity to adopt such a law last December. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization and Laundering of Proceeds Was introduced to the Supreme Council on December 19th. The government insisted on his acceptance. But the opposition ruined the meeting. The next day the FATF recommended that the member states of the organization impose sanctions against Ukraine. After the FATF decision, the situation develops according to the principle of snow avalanche. In a short period of time, eight FATF member states announced sanctions: the United States, Canada, Britain, Germany, Denmark, Finland and others. We have to wait for sanctions from another 20 countries. Ukrainian companies and businesses that have millions of our citizens have been hit. Where are the economists with the parliamentary mandates today, who assured everyone that there would be no sanctions? How do you explain the position of the faction "Our Ukraine", which ignored the government's call and blocked the adoption of a law against the laundering of dirty money with its companions? Are these not part of the planned actions aimed at making Ukraine's international image worse and the domestic situation in the country by a well-known principle - "The worse the better"? Of course, the answers to the questions raised are important, but even more important, the task of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the deep conviction of the parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine today is the use of measures aimed at a way out of, indeed, a difficult situation in which, without exaggeration, Ukraine is found to be responsible for the opposition forces. [[united]] We believe that the Anti - Laundering Law should not be the subject of a political trade. Such a trade would cost the state and its people too much. The MP's faction of SDPU(o) urges Parliament to immediately adopt amendments to Ukrainian legislation that meet the requirements of FAT regarding the fight against money laundering. In order for this work to become systematic and controlled, the faction of SDPU(o) proposes, in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to create a temporary special commission for legislative enforcement by Ukraine of the FATA recommendations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u46	Paul Matthew has a word. Dear colleagues! Please, calm down. Just now, in the previous speech, there was also a faction called "Our Ukraine," and there was no replica. It's a performance. Then, please, everything. The faction will be represented. Calm down. From the "European Choice" faction, Paul Matthewnko has the word. From a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At the end of the second session, we gave our voters a good New Year's gift by adopting a series of social guidance laws and the 2003 State Budget. But when we begin our third session, it is worth noting that it is too early for us to rest on laurels, because the laws and budgets that have been adopted cannot take place without significant changes in the economy and economic legislation, in particular. The lack of a proper legislative base has already led to a significant shortfall in the budget in 2002. And once again, we risk stepping on the same rakes. This year’s budget is no less tense. We passed a law on a step-by-step increase in minimum wage. That's right. But have we done everything to ensure a substantial increase in the income part of the budget? I don't think so. As before, tax laws require serious changes. We need to review the tax base, put legal barriers to money laundering, misuse of budgetary resources, and make much more important and urgent that we do not have a virtual or paper-based solution with you, but a little practical, in terms of scientific terminology, application. Why did we forget the Tax Code, which is awaited by both legal and physical persons? Why we forgot that the imperfections of economic legislation continue to stimulate such a shameful phenomenon for developed countries as the shadow economy. How much of this does the budget lose? Are we going to mention this again in July when the next budget process begins, that is, in 2004? And whenever we do, we're never going to have to adopt the laws that we're considering for the development of the domestic economy. Moreover, during that period, in the midst of the presidential race, populist laws will grow like mushrooms after the rain. We also talk about this because even in the weekly agenda, there was no room for drafts that would have a significant positive impact on the development of the national economic complex. Therefore, the European Election Group considers it necessary to hold a conciliatory council in the near future, together with representatives of all factions and groups, with the participation of government leaders, to identify a list of urgent economic bills with their subsequent phased preparation, inclusion in the agenda and adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u48	From the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine to the presentation, Oleg Zarubinsky is invited. Get ready for Cossack.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u49	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, guests, journalists! The American-Iraq opposition is gradual, but it's getting faster and faster to reach its climax. At the same time, the consequences of a major war, which in fact is now set in motion by its inspirers, can be unforeseeable for mankind. Among other things, it is a threat to European unity, a threat to the creation of a single, economically powerful and peaceful Europe. It is not necessary to prove that the inhabitants of the European continent do not need to do so. They need peace, peace and security. And our proposals, our initiatives should be focused on that. More than two years ago, from this rostrum, I made a proposal to declare the Black Sea and the Azov Seas a nuclear - free zone. And it came to the conclusion that this corresponds to the strategic course of Ukraine for the limitation and elimination of nuclear weapons. Yes, Ukraine became the first and, unfortunately, the last country to voluntarily and completely rid itself of the weapons of mass destruction available to it, setting an example for other countries and nations. The world’s public then recognized Ukraine as an active factor in peace and stability in Europe, but no one took up the estaphet. Noting with regret this fact, we all realize, at the same time, that it is not simply a condition where members of the nuclear club themselves, constantly and fairly, nodding their fingers to the smaller ones, do not give up, but talk about the deterrence of this sinister weapon and even the possibility of the task of the first seemingly preventative blow. It seems that the most responsible for nuclear disarmament is not fully aware that they are thereby justifying the deterrence of this process. And as a result not only of NATO or the European Union, but also of the nuclear club, has a secret turn. Ukraine, thanks to its disarmament and tragedy policy, has the moral right to bring to the attention of the world’s public these dangerous trends and to invite nuclear - weapons nations and international organizations to put an end to unjustified disarmament pauses, to intensify eradication and restrictive measures. One of these relatively painless nuclear-weapon owners, but important, from the point of view of strengthening trust among nations and the positive attitude of governments, is the forgotten practice of declaring nuclear-weapon-free zones, envisaged by article 7 of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The nuclear - free status of the Black Sea and the Azova Seas would be in line with the national interests of the countries of the Black Sea and would be a major contribution to the overall struggle for a stable and secure world. Taking into account the disaster with nuclear submarines, it would also be a precautionary act of environmental protection for the Black Sea and Asian basin, an environment that is life-giving for many millions of people and a unique animal world. With all these arguments in mind, we -- I conclude -- recommend to the President of Ukraine as the head of the state to step out of the Black Sea and the Azov Seas as a nuclear-free zone. Ask him to be commissioned to negotiate with the Black Sea States and to draw up an appropriate treaty under UN and MAGATE auspices. It would also be considered appropriate to include this proposal in the plans for the interparliamentary relations of the Supreme Council. Please support this initiative and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u50	Thank you. From the People's Landing Group to the presentation, I invite Alexia Alexiyovich Kozachenka. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u51	Alexy Kozachenko, People's Rule Group, Odessa. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! On December 17, 2002, the Odessa City Council's executive committee, without proper agreement with the City Council, approved new housing and utility tariffs in Odessa. As of 1 January of this year, they have increased by 1.56 times water supply and 1.32 times water supply. In addition, on March 1st, there is an increase in rent, and think more than 2.3 times. At the same time, the initiators do not consider it necessary to make calculations to justify their decision. The working group set up to carry out the tasks of the Prime Minister of Ukraine in order to verify the economic justification of the new tariffs without having received the necessary materials for such verification concluded that it was impossible to determine the legality of the measures used by the Odessa authorities. In this situation, it may be assumed that their inaction and inability to manage the city’s self - government authorities are trying to put the population on the shoulders. Therefore, the irresponsible policy of the local authorities has sparked fair indignation against Odessa and has caused considerable strain on the social situation in the city, mass protests and numerous complaints by citizens against local and central executive authorities, national defenders of all levels, and the President of Ukraine. This attitude toward people's problems is a source of resentment and concern to us members of the People's Authority MPs. We think that the issue of the cost of housing services is one of the cornerstones of the declared state social protection policy of every citizen. Moreover, the non-admissibility of any increase in this value is clearly stated in all documents that define the main directions for the development of the state, including the Ukrainian President's letter on the conceptual principles of Ukraine's economic and social development strategy for 2002-2011. So any change in the cost of services provided to ensure the basic living conditions of our fellow countrymen should not only be fully justified, but should also include appropriate compensatory mechanisms. Therefore, the People's Authority Group for a comprehensive and objective study and analysis of the situation, to verify the legality of the actions of the Odessa City Council Executive Committee, considers it necessary to establish a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and invites all national deputies to support the draft relevant decision that we have put forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u52	From the faction of "Our Ukraine" to the performance by Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u53	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, in his opening statement Vladimir Mikhailovich said that work should be done in a new way. We support this call, but we want the new one not to be renumbered as old, but to be really new. There is a legislative summary in our work. Our faction believes that our very main task is to give up the legislative summary and move on to consistent, systematic, promising legislative activity. We have constant law enforcement, changes and complements, instead of really adopting the laws that we need, we often adopt secondary laws, we don't adopt codes, we put the emphasis wrong, so we need to define ourselves with a strategy for legislative activity. We think it's a major issue at the moment, to properly define the strategy of legislative activity and to systematically implement this strategy. We mostly have economics, both in the political system, and in the social system, there is not reform, there is deformity. Reform and deformation must be distinguished. We think we need to move from deformity to reform. And it is extremely important that these reforms produce results, positive results. First of all, for our voters and our society, for Ukraine. You need to define the criteria clearly. What are the criteria for reform? And then, according to the criteria, we're going to move. The reform of power, the reform of the system of power, is of paramount importance. There's a lot of talk about that. And virtually nothing is done. We think we need to pass a law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Until now, he's not signed by the President, he's back. You have to pass the election law on a party basis. Instead of adopting these bills, we had a provocative bill on the use of Russian. There is a danger that this bill could break up the session hall, the opposition. Russia began its year in Ukraine. We would like the year to begin in Ukraine. When will Ukraine finally begin its year in Ukraine? We think we need to reverse the pyramid of power. We have all the power now on the mountain. We need to flip the pyramid of power so that the maximum power is down. But in order to do that, we need political reform, and we need the President to share the power so that the President does not appoint ministers, but only with the consent of the Supreme Council. There is no such thing anywhere in the world, even in the United States, where there is a very strong presidential power.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u54	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u55	The Attorney General is appointed to be accountable to the President. I need you to report to the Supreme Council. Governors don't choose, they make appointments. So there's a whole system of necessary changes to the power system. And the last. Answer to Deputy Volodymyr Hare The faction "Our Ukraine" does not object to the adoption of the Law on the Laundering of Dirty Money. It is against the adoption of a law that does not meet European standards. Our acceptance faction was a better law than the one that was in the paper that was adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u56	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, all who showed a desire to speak out of factions, took advantage of that right. Dear colleagues, there's no reason to say it. Please. I have this proposal, my honourable colleagues, now a list of bills that we have to vote for to include, are only 19. True, 13 of them are in order of the day, in 6 we vote. I'd like the deputies to meet in the session room. And now, if you have no objection, I would ask that the head of Parliament's delegation, Boris Ilchi Olijnik, speak with information. A delegation, as you know, has just returned from the Council of Europe. Please. Boris Ilchi says seven minutes. You have to agree that all of our delegations will inform us of the results once they have finished their work in various international organizations. Is there no objection? Please, Boris Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, therefore, a chronicle without comment in a short lecture. On January 27-31st, the first part of the second session of the PARJE took place in Strasbourg, with the participation of members of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of Rahanski, Gladys, Glaciers, Golovats, Zvarics, Karpov, Kostenko, Pisarenko, Rybak, Simonenko and Olijnik as well. PARJE approved the inclusion of a day - to - day discussion of the situation: first on Iraq; second on the code of good offices in elections; and third on pollution of the marine environment. In addition to the above, freedom of expression was also considered in the media in Europe; conflict in the Chechen Republic, movement of persons in south-eastern Europe: trends, problems, solutions; contribution by the Council of Europe to the drafting of the Constitution of the European Union; challenges to social policy in ageing societies; code of good offices in elections; draft protocol amending the European Convention on the Fight against Terrorism, the situation of young migrants in Europe, and so on. The first day was the election of the Committees of the Parliamentary Assembly. At the Paris Plenary Meetings, members of the Permanent Delegation spoke: The Oily Code of Good offices in Elections and Situations around Iraq; Rahansky of Freedom of Expression in the Media in Europe; Marine Pollution, Towards Full Social Adaptation of Persons with Disabilities; Yuri Kostenko of Social Issues; Zvaric of Iraq; Rybak of Freedom of Expression in the Media in Europe; Simonenko of freedom of expression in the media and the challenges of social policy and ageing societies. The hottest discussion unfolded with regard to the situation around Iraq. The vast majority of dignitaries stressed that the United States has no basis for starting a war against Iraq, since the work of UN experts is ongoing and Saddam Hussein is currently implementing the latest UN resolution. And if the United States makes a special decision to start a war, it will undermine the authority of the United Nations, destabilize world order, create tension in the Middle East, lead to a confrontation between Christianity and Islam. The discussion concluded that a resolution had been adopted in which the Assembly called on the Iraqi authorities to immediately open and unreservedly cooperate with the inspectors to counter the suspicions of the world community of weapons of mass destruction, and that member states and candidates to the Council of Europe, as well as observer states to the Council of Europe, particularly the United States, should refrain from applying force without a clear decision by the Security Council. A heated discussion took place on the issue of conflict in the Republic of Chechnya. The discussion focused on the intention of the Russian federal and Chechen authorities to hold a referendum on the draft Constitution of the Republic of Chechnya on 23 March this year. A reporter from the PARIS Political Affairs Committee, Lord Jud, who visited Chechnya in January, strongly insisted on the need to postpone the referendum to a later date in view of the lack of security for the lives of voters and observers to ensure the proper conditions for the election of refugees and displaced persons. For their part, all members of the Russian parliamentary delegation, with the exception of the well - known lawyer Kovalov, insisted that it would not be possible to postpone the terms of the referendum because they felt that this would only further exacerbate the conflict. The same position was held by the special representative of the President of the Russian Federation in Chechnya Abdul Hakim Sultigol. After discussion, the Assembly adopted a compromise resolution condemning the climate of impunity prevailing in the Chechen Republic while allowing the above referendum to be held. However, at its meeting on January 31, the PARE Bureau decided not to send observers to the Assembly for a referendum. The final decision on this issue will be taken at the meeting of the Paris Bureau on March 10th. 29 a meeting took place with Walter Schwimmer, a permanent delegation at his request. This included ensuring freedom of the media in Ukraine and the ability of the Council of Europe to contribute to this issue. Walter Schieber commended recent parliamentary hearings on media freedom in Ukraine and their findings. He expressed the expectation that this decision of 16 January -- I quote -- would be accompanied by concrete practical steps. And he assured us that the Council of Europe would contribute to this process. In turn, the head of the permanent delegation assured the ginsec that the delegation had made every systematic effort to ensure further progress in meeting our obligations. By the way, dear colleagues, for Christ's sake, let's finish the codes, with the papers, with the penitentiary system, give her health, transfer her to Minust and reenact the prosecution's office, otherwise how are we going to ask questions about the removal of the monitoring? During the session there were also meetings of our delegation with the rapporteurs. The complete expanded text will be presented in our report, where what I missed will be scrupulously indicated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the report will be distributed among the MPs. You'll be able to get to know him in detail. Dear colleagues, there are 24 proposals for further inclusion in the agenda of the day - to - day third session of the Supreme Council. The secretariat examined them and found that only nine of them were not involved, and all others were involved. There's no need to read them. So if you have no objection, let us vote in favour of including issues that are not included. That makes sense. I'll put it to a vote. Wait, dear fellows. Not all at once! I'm saying, as we agreed on the principle, there are six documents that are not included, I call them, you are defined by vote. May I have your attention, please? Document number 1324 - draft law on the restoration of historic justice in the struggle for freedom and independence of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please make up your mind. Dear colleagues, take your seats! [[12:15:13]] For 158. For - 158, no decision is taken. I am betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the 2050 draft law of the Ukrainian Nationalists and Ukrainian Insurgency Party as a belligerent in World War II. Well, Your Honor, we vote. Please, sit down! It's not a discussion. [[12:15:49]] For-141 For -141, no decision is made. I'm betting on a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the 2176-1 agenda is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils. This is a project by the national deputy Kirilenko, and we were looking at it in 16.01.2003. People's deputies are asked to vote by this definition. [[12:16:23]] For 232 For 232, the decision is made. The vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft document number 2215 is a draft order for the initiation of the procedure for the removal of Kuchma Leonid Danilovich from the post of President of Ukraine in the order of impeachment and the establishment of a special interim commission of inquiry. [[12:17:01]] For-154 For - 154, no decision is made. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, now take a look at the factions. Next. I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day draft decision number 2330 is the draft decree for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the verification of the illegal activities of the DPA head in the Lviv region of Sergio Medvedchuk. [[12:17:43]] For 197 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 2338 on Notariat. This is Musiak's national deputy. Yeah. [[12:18:07]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The MP of Musiak also proposes to include the draft Administrative Code, number 1331. I'll bet you a vote. People's deputies please identify themselves. [[12:18:35]] For 273 It's on. And I'm also voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Shareholder Associations Act 3059. It was Musiak who brought it all in. [[12:19:03]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, if there's no need, I won't read it. Everyone else is on. I've been given numbers, I can call them. It's a draft under number 2297 of Carmazin. It's on. 2230. No, we still voted for him. 2413-1 of the people's deputy Rudzkowski. It's on. 2488, draft Approval Order for Assistant Consultant is included. 2622 Turkish national MP entered the proposal. 2637 in the afternoon, so is Turkinova. 2642 is also in the agenda. 3010 is also in the day-to-day order. 3041 is also in the agenda. 3047 Rudzkowski is a national deputy. 3051 Turkish national MP is. 3054, the draft Ordinance on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Minister of Fuel and Energy's report is in place. 3061 The draft Law on Bar and Bar, the National MP Soboljev has raised, is. And 3064 draft Law on Support for Production and Development of the Agricultural Product Market, Catherine Vaschuk, is also a project. So we've done it all. Please, one more minute. Dear colleagues, as an exception, I'm putting one more on the vote, and we won't take it anymore. This is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine introduced by the People's Deputies Klimpush, Ivanc, Kuharczuk, Lvivín, Reddunenko in exchange for the earlier ones. This is draft law number 2242. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. And that's how you define. [[12:21:11]] For-142 The decision is not taken. Martinyuk. Please specify now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u59	It doesn't matter. Thank you. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, we have just heard a report from our delegation, which participated in the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And as you've heard from our senior executive, Mr. Boris Illich, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has adopted a special resolution on one of the hottest issues of today, what concerns the problem around Iraq. Today, on behalf of the faction, we tabled a motion for 2654 to approve the Supreme Council's declaration on the threat of war against Iraq. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would ask that we now include this application in the agenda and decide to consider it and make a decision. Because each of us understands what this can end not only for Iraq, but not only for those nations that are in the immediate border with that State, but in general for world civilization. And I would very much like you, dear colleagues, to take a closer look at this draft statement. It's completely consistent and balanced, and it meets the requirements of international law, it basically repeats the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I think it would be good enough for our Parliament to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'm putting to the vote a proposal that has just been made to include and make a decision today on the Supreme Council's 2654-1 draft regulation on the threat of war against Iraq. [[12:23:30]] For-187 For - 187. In factions, please give. Now, not all at once, please, dear colleagues! So let's think about it this way. Dear colleagues, after 14 o'clock, when the faction leaders come together, we'll put you to the vote. Now, I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, to do so. We'll turn it on. Well, one minute! Two national deputies, please. Pull, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u61	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I'm asking you to re-vote the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the 2330 ruling on the verification of the activities of the Lviv tax. If you don't mind, I'll explain to you one second. Please understand that there are documents, documents of abuse, and contraventions of that structure. The state loses billions of dollars. In fact, they don't want to check with the interdisciplinary commissions. Literally a few votes were not enough. We'll create an independent committee of deputies, we'll join the relevant experts. Please support me and vote again on the question of the establishment of a commission of deputies for the activities of the Lviv Tax Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u62	Thank you. People's Deputy Robber.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you on the statement of the Supreme Council made by Peter Simonenko. I think it should be voted in our room, except for those words where, I don't think you should use those words, because the two sides are guilty of conflict, and the words: it condemns the actions of the U.S. authorities that lead to the beginning of the new war. And it should be like, "People's deputies express the will of their electorates, insist on the need for a peaceful outcome of this crisis and of course the fulfilment of international law." Dear colleagues, by no chance, when Putin was with us in Ukraine, he stated that he would still think about how he would vote. So he wants to vote in exchange for the United States extending its spheres of influence to Iraq, and Russia is totally controlling Ukraine. And we are the hostages of this situation. We must not allow war to start, for this means a definite division of Europe. Thus, we must show our position along with all Europe that does not want this war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u64	Peter Mikolaiovich, please, and then Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u65	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I can agree as one of the authors of this draft statement and draft decision, to accept the proposal that is now being made. And so that we can express only our point of view on behalf of our electorate on the need for a peaceful solution to this situation. But I call on all the national MPs, let's be clear about what's going on in the world today. I very much ask you, now considering this amendment, which has just been declared by the Orob national deputy, to vote on this text as a statement on behalf of the Supreme Council. I ask you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put the whole amendment to the vote again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u66	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, please. Dopkin, yes, yes, it will be now, yes. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko. Then Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u67	Gurenko, the Communist faction. I would like to support Peter Mikolaiovich and his distinguished colleague. And to remind those who will vote that it's not just about the partition of Europe, I want to remind them of Chernobyl sitting here in the hall. So when Chernobyl started, there was radioactive rainfall in Sweden. If Iraq is torn, Ukraine will flee. I want this to be clear to everyone. And only because American soldiers are going to do so will they be as small as those in the black - and - white April of 1986. I'd like everyone who votes to be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u68	National Deputy Dobkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I beg your pardon, Decree 2268 was not voted by mistake, draft regulation 2268. We just checked, we just missed it by accident. And until we have had to flee Ukraine because of the war on Iraq, I ask that we create such a commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u70	Okay. Everybody said it, didn't they? Please, National Deputy School, and we're about to make our mark.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I also want to insist that the Supreme Council's statement on the threat of war in Iraq must be voted on, because I don't think anyone in this room will be present for the war. It's just that this robot app is right, and we need to emphasize the threat of war, the threat of war, the threat of world war, maybe even take the word "Iraq," because the conflict in Iraq can exacerbate the situation in the Arab world and the world war in general. That is why we must be concerned about peace, not the beginning of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. We've moved on to a discussion, and we need to include this in our consideration and decision-making. I am voting on the inclusion and adoption of a decision on the draft statement by the Supreme Council on the threat of war against Iraq. [[12:29:58]] For 261 Decision taken. I'm voting for acceptance. The factions, please. I'm putting it to a vote -- listen to the proposal -- to accept it as a whole, taking into account the proposal made by the Labour People's MP, who was supported by the drafters of the bill, and to make an offer by Andri Skull to protect against the threat of global disasters. So, yeah? And then we'll move on. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. I'm voting for adoption then on the basis of the draft of this document, taking into account the proposals already made. Please vote. [[12:30:57]] For 269 "For" is 269, based on acceptance. Offer. Yuri Carmazin. Then Dobkin. It's already counted, I said. When accepted as a basis. Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Turn on the microphone of the national MP Dobkin, and you come here if you don't have a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u73	Everything, everything, works. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to add a certain sentence that says, "Ukraine is like a state that gave up nuclear weapons first." This binding sentence must be included here in order for everyone to understand that Ukraine, which has renounced nuclear weapons, is definitely against the use of nuclear weapons in its territory. We live on the Black Sea. I don't care if they throw guns at London or Washington or anybody. So this sentence we have to write that Ukraine, which was the first among the nations to give up nuclear weapons. Absolutely! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u74	Thank you. The substance of the amendment was understood. I put to the vote the addition of National Deputy Carmazin as follows: "Ukraine as a state that voluntarily gave up the third power of nuclear power." No, well, there's still a proposal from the People's Deputy Dobkin, so I'm happy, but I can't. Please be sure about this amendment. [[12:33:00]] For 259. To - 259. Dopkin, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u75	Given the importance of this international conflict throughout the world and given that many amendments have been made by fellow MPs, I propose that this decision be adopted in general only after it has been printed, a member has been handed over so that we can read it and vote in favour of the document that we have already read.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u76	Thank you. People's Deputy Robber, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, there's another phrase I meant, but I haven't read it. Here's a country-specific statement, referring to the United States and Great Britain. It refers to the U.S. and Great Britain as a call to refrain from any action that degrades the authority and role of the UN. We don't have any humiliation at the state level in these countries of authority right now. So I think the reference to the United States, to Britain, is also going to be taken away, it's only to the honor of this project. And then it's in the text.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u78	I put to the vote the amendment just made by the Orobec People's Deputy. [[12:34:30]] For-74. All of them? People's Deputy Kirilenko. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u79	"Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I'd like to clarify the last paragraph. I think it would make sense if we wrote it out by removing half of the first and the whole second line and it would sound like, "The Ukrainian National Deputies insist on the need for a peaceful way out of this crisis and the unconditional implementation of international law." Period. I suggest you do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u80	I'm voting on the proposal of the national deputy Kirilenka, who just put it to the vote. I'd like her to vote. [[12:35:28]] For 229 Decision taken. I am voting on the adoption of applications in general, taking into account the proposals that were supported in the session room. [[12:35:54]] For 260 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to make another suggestion, as the national deputy of Tegnibok and others sounded. Let's do it this way. I'm asking people's deputies, factions, committees to see if we might have missed something. These proposals will be processed and submitted to the secretariat. After 14 hours, we'll vote on them, including, well, I say, including your proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down. This is how I propose: to vote, we have missed, a draft decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the reasons for the formation and the amounts owed to state-owned lenders for loans, state-owned loans or government guarantees. This is document number 2268, filed by Dobkin People's Deputy. Please vote. [[12:37:09]] For 243 Well, let's vote after lunch, there'll be some more bills. Well, please, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, come on! Dear colleagues, I had an offer to work. If they do, we'll put them to a vote after lunch. Dear colleagues, let's calm down now. There'll be no result, come on! Let's do it after lunch. Well, make all the suggestions. Well, please! I say once again, my dear colleagues, to see what questions you have in your mind came out of our sight, need to be considered. After 16 hours, we'll vote again so that we don't go back to the same questions every time. Well, now we're going to vote one and we're going to vote the other again, you know what I mean? Please, let's not. I am introducing a draft law on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the size of certain types of compulsory public social insurance. The reporter is Deputy Secretary of State Hotch Olena Vasilovna. The committee suggests that this issue be considered within 20 minutes. Five minutes to report. Please. Dear colleagues, we've already taken a break, we've used it. Well, please, let's work. We've got a lot of work to do. Please! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u81	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, in the last year of 2002, we started a social insurance system with you, and for the first time in the last years of independent Ukraine, we have fully funded 100 percent of insurance payments for working persons who have lost their health, we have received temporary assistance in full and on time. Families with children were assisted by working women and by those who temporarily remained unemployed. Thus 2002, the year became a turning point in protecting and providing State guarantees to working persons. Since 2003, honourable national MPs, we have moved on to a reduction in tax pressure on the payroll fund and while preserving existing government guarantees for working persons at the same time as they are increasing. We proposed in this bill, the government proposed to reduce the tax pressure on the payroll fund, and the first year, it's just initiation, by 0.2 percent. This will allow us to leave in the economy, to develop an economy of about 200 million dollars. At the same time, honourable national MPs are proposing in this bill to increase the State guarantees for women who perform, working women, I repeat that, working women who take care of children to three years almost twice. And this year, women working to care for their children are expected to be assisted by up to 80 bracelets. Last year, 58 bucks. At the same time, minimum guarantees for other insurance funds are increasing. Honourable National Deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council, The State Budget Act for this year provides for a channel from the Employment Fund of 107 million dollars to create additional jobs in coal regions. Today we are preparing a draft appropriate government decision on how to channel these funds. Ladies and gentlemen, we anticipate, from the beginning of 2003, further reductions in contributions to the insurance funds at the expense of not only the reduction of administrative expenses, but we will call on the Supreme Council to enact laws that would allow us to expand the tax base in these funds. In particular, this includes insurance for all, without exception, employees, and the pooling of funds that are common to them. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill was discussed before we sent it to the Supreme Council, with our social partners. And on the basis of social dialogue and consensus, we've agreed on the proposals that we're offering you today. Previously, the bill was discussed by the Committee on Social Policy and the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. These authorities supported the bill. The government is asking you to support this bill and start a new page on social reform in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u82	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. Nigger. The next one is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u83	Dear Helen Vasilovna, in my opinion, the bill is right, it meets the needs of today, I think we need to support it. But I have some doubts as to the magnitude of the reduction in tax pressure on the Labour Pay Fund. Why are you so indecisive in this direction, and why is only 0.2 percent lowering this pressure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u84	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Kirilovich. I was talking about the fact that we were only working in the social insurance system for the second year, and last year was extremely difficult. We had debts of over 800 billion. Millions of dollars on regressive payments alone, you know that. There was a debt in the village to help families with their children. Last year alone, we managed to make 100% of our funding. And we know with you that the amount of child care assistance 80 dollars does not provide a minimum of living for the child and for the mother who takes care of the child. So you're probably going to support us in that these two processes have to happen in parallel. Without diminishing government guarantees, we need to reduce tax pressure. If we try to reduce the burden on the payroll fund, we will not encourage people to pay their premiums in order to get paid. Thank you. In the coming year, we predict this decline to deepen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u85	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, next Baburin
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u86	Thank you. Helen Vasilovna, Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. I have a short question, it refers to the fact that the bill certainly needs to be adopted. The question relates to the prospects for further passage of the bill. So first. Whether or not the rate will change from 0.5 percent to the wage for employees who have a salary of 185 dollars because the bill refers to a salary of less than 150 dollars. Well, what's the point when we set the minimum wage? That's the first question. And the second question. What is the direction of further harmonization between the two norms, the two laws, the first of your bill and the second of your law, which we know about the mandatory public social insurance in connection with the temporary loss of incapacity and so forth. It's about what. You've got child care, you've got Czerniak, you've got three years of age, you've got 15 percent of living minimum, and the law I'm talking about has no less living minimum. How are you going to harmonize two bills, two standards?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u87	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we are proposing at least 16 percent of the bill. If coming to the funds will allow us to increase those payouts, of course we will make this decision over the course of the year. As for the harmonization of these two bills, I want to remind you that there is a third bill in the Supreme Council. And as we were told yesterday by the Supreme Council Secretariat, there's a Bill by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenic, which also applies to insurance funds. I suggest you take them for a second reading look in a packet. Regarding the wage of a minimum wage of 185 dollars, if the second reading of the national MPs makes proposals for an increase of 150 dollars by 185 we are ready to consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u88	Baburin Alexei Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u89	May I have the floor to the People's Deputy of Frost?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u90	Frosty's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u91	Dear Helen Vasilovna! A very important law is proposed. In fact, today there is a big problem and we need to address this issue of birth because, unfortunately, our women are in such a situation that they do not want to give birth, and we need to increase this social assistance. But today a lot of businesses, and I think maybe a percent of 70, are in a very difficult state. Will we be able to ensure the financial implementation of this law, which is proposed in this case? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. Dear National Deputies! That's why we're cautiously moving forward and reducing tax burdens and at the same time social guarantees within real revenue. Last year we planned insurance budgets in such a way that we were able to secure the decisions made by the Supreme Council. We're going to work on reducing administrative costs. You know that the Supreme Council has also adopted in the State Budget limits on the levels of administrative expenditure of the funds. And so, I think that the proposed drafting of the law will be able to be implemented. But of course, the guarantee is economic development.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u93	Lejko Grigorovich Lukjanenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Kirilchuku Eugene Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u95	Kirilchuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u96	Thank you, Milo Grigorovich. The Julia Timoshenko faction, the Fatherland Party. Dear reporter! Here's the first paragraph of Article 1 concerning the deaf and blind people's associations. I understand that these are specialized workshops where these people work, they get a penny. And we put them on or increase even the payment that was before that. Do you think that's fair or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! Thank you for asking. We don't increase tax pressure on these companies. We talked about reducing tax pressure on all businesses. As far as the employees of these two UTOG and UTOS companies are concerned, I want to inform you that the employees of these companies receive state guarantees for social and hospital services and child care, and unemployment on the same scale as those companies that pay full contributions. So there will be no reduction in the guarantees they are given today. Thank you. We agreed to this bill with these societies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u98	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the Work of Verna to Mount Leonid Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u99	Vernighor, a socialist faction. Dear fellow MPs! You and I are well aware that today we are only on our way or at the beginning of our journey to reduce the pressure on our production. What's more, if you've listened carefully, Helen Vasilyvna, as a sponsor of the Cabinet of Ministers of this bill, warned that everything would be fine only then and that our expectations would be justified when we were still developing production. If that doesn't happen, we're not going to reduce anything by 0.2 or 1 percent. So I want to point out that for the first time, we try to regulate this process in the walls of the Supreme Council, because, according to the Rules, as you know, we have to approve the social tariff budget every year. We're going to risk it because we can change it. In order to guarantee, you know, the experimental work in the Chernivetske and Lugansk areas has been announced. Therefore, our committee has carefully considered the bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers and proposes that the bill be adopted as a basis. According to further procedures, if any additional questions arise there with one tenth or two tenths. We can correct it if we adopt it in the final adoption of the law. I've got it all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u100	Thank you. Please sign up for questions. Lighten up. Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, next is Atroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u101	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Your Honorable Leonide Mikhailovich, as you do, I often have to be in the district, meet with my constituents, and it's very unpleasant, for example, when you don't know how to answer why state social assistance is not paid on time, why, say, child support is not paid, with great delays. Or, for example, a change in the way this aid is financed, such as child support, then child support in connection with what is happening on a specific vacation is transferred to the shoulders of businesses that this person was working on. And those businesses, usually I have a rural area in Hersonian, they go bankrupt and they don't have any money to pay off. And the second question. How this law will touch the private ones who today hide their wages in appropriate accounting is not going to work. People are going to suffer, are they going to suffer, or will they not? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u102	First question. The point is that in the concept of this law that we are considering today, we have finally put tax pressure down. This is a proportional dependency: the less tax pressure on the manufacturer, the more profits he has, or he develops production, and he counts more money on the fund. So if we were to raise this percentage the other way around, then less and less businesses would actually be able to count it. That's the first one. And the second. How can we really get out of this situation that, let's say, I know in many areas and in Western areas where less production is made and more money is made abroad. In the film, I was told that every day about $15,000 comes into the bank. This lists the costs of those who work abroad, and they don't list anything for us in Ukraine, and so in many areas there is an imbalance between payability and contributions. We're now working on a set of regulations in the committee, where, let's say, we have to put an end to what we have, let's say, is 700,000 in the area, and they're taking 5 million in the area. So today we have to make it appropriate for everyone to spend on themselves or choose from these funds as much as they count. That'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u103	Atroshenko Vladislav Anatoliyovich, next to Noshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear reporter! Dear colleagues! The bill under consideration is important for establishing the size of insurance contributions, taking into account the projected economic and social development indicators for 2003. The bill proposes to increase the amount of public social security contributions. In my opinion, as a member of the budget committee, the proposed changes require more careful financial and economic justification, and perhaps additional calculations on possible changes in the income and expenditure portions of the funds. What I wanted to point out was that, with a view to assessing the conditions for the introduction of articles 24, 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in the event of unemployment, the bill proposes that in the current year an experiment be conducted in the Luhansk and Chernobyl areas on the introduction of social protection for workers in part-time unemployment. I propose to extend this experiment to the Chernigiv region, which is not just east and west.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u105	Is that a speech or a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u106	And the northern regions of Ukraine. This will make it possible to take more into account the specificities of the regions mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u107	Please tell me, do you have any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u108	There's an offer to extend this experiment to the north.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u109	And I said in my statement that you have the right to make all your suggestions for the second reading, we will consider them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u110	Of course. Mikola Petrovich's nightstand, please. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u111	160th constituency, Hard Ukraine faction. Dear co-reporter, I'm very specific, but in advance, I want to say that in the country, and I'm representing the rural, the main sources of income for the rural population today are pensions and child payments. That's a fact. It's got to be counted. And I have a question for you during the speech of colleague Atroshenko. Please specify, how does this bill relate to the State Budget? Has the need for additional budgetary resources been calculated so as not to give rise to the situation as a minimum wage, and is there any conclusion of the budget committee under this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u112	Well, let's first define that none of the four social funds have anything to do with the budget. All of our social funds are non-budgetary self-governing funds. And so, as you can see, we do self-regulation or settlement. and the Supreme Council is given the right of this regulation through social tariffs. I've got it all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u113	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Puzakov Volodymyr Tikhovich. The next one is Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u114	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Of course, the bill that we are considering today is not based on the provision of state and social standards. First of all, it's that the actual minimum wage size is much lower than the subsistence minimum that was approved for 2003. Secondly, these changes do not correspond to the current legislative base of the untaxed minimum income of citizens, because according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, it should amount to 185 dollars today, and it actually amounts to 17 dollars, because in this situation, the retention of employed workers who receive a salary of 185 dollars, and the collection of contributions to a compulsory public social insurance is not at all in line with the concept of reforming the pay of jobs in Ukraine, nor with the strategy of overcoming poverty. By the way, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has repeatedly made proposals on the concept of pay reform in Ukraine and poverty eradication strategies. But neither the government nor the President himself listens to or takes into account the proposals of our faction. This law is certainly necessary because it is too long. Failure to adopt amendments to this law has practically paralysed the work of social insurance funds in connection with temporary unemployment. And the loss of these funds in the case of the adoption of the law under consideration increases considerably. This is the increase in unemployment relief, and this is the introduction of an experiment in the Lugansk and Chernobyl areas to help workers in the case of a temporary simple enterprise where they work. By the way, the solution to this problem is long overdue. Well, of course, a significant increase in payments comes from the Social Insurance Fund in connection with temporary loss of employment, namely, funeral aid, expenses incurred by the child’s birth. Today, these funds are virtually devoid of the ability to actually form their budgets. Therefore, the proposals made by the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and the profile committee, as well as by the government, regarding the Ukrainian Act on the size of the contributions to certain types of compulsory state social insurance, offer support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u115	Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Prepare Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. The honourable national MPs, the distinguished people of Ukraine, certainly the proposed bill has its positives, I would like to stop at them, both unfortunately and negatives. The benefits are that it is proposed to increase the amount of public social security contributions to employees who have a salary of less than 150, to a half percent of the amount paid, which includes basic and additional salaries, as well as other incentive and pension benefits, including in natural form. In the law of law, it was 0.25. and It is also proposed to raise child care payments: not less than 15 per cent of the working person's living minimum and children under 6 years of age to the minimum of living. At the same time, I would like to point out that this bill has no financial and economic justification. I'd like the government to approach itself with a greater demand when it's providing such a financial and economic justification. We have as legislators to see the whole painting. That's the first one. Secondly, I would like this bill to be in line with article 43 of the Ukrainian Act on compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial, which does not mean that it is less viable for a working person. Next. The Law is supposed to take effect on January 1, 2003. Clearly, it is necessary to bring the Constitution into line from the time of publication. The second paragraph of the Final Regulations provides for an experiment only in Lugansk and Cherniewsky areas. It is not said why in these areas, how they differ from Odessa, Cherkaske, Kirovograd or Crimea, what is there, why we ask questions like that. Moreover, the Cabinet of Ministers is asked to determine the period during which the experiment is being conducted. And the question is, what, you couldn't justify all of this, and now you couldn't do an experiment on living people, but you could put in place normal rules for the whole state? So I'd like to make it out of the slogan: without reducing government guarantees, reducing tax pressure -- we're still moving on to real steps. And I call upon the government of Yanukovich to do so because I have taken responsibility for you most. We're not referring to the majority, we're just saying that pragmatically, which is useful in your bills. We are useful and against the fact that we are in violation of the laws and constitution. In the first reading, it can be accepted, but it can be worked out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u117	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare Volodymyr Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u118	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. Today we are considering the law, I am talking to the people who listen to us, about the extent of the contributions to some types of compulsory state social insurance. And the goal of adopting these changes is to get the government to improve and increase payments to our citizens who use these benefits. It's first of all, women who have children and work and second of all, and maybe next to that, it's unemployment pay. And these basic categories, if you listen to us today, you realize that this law is being considered today. I'd like to say to my stenographers and to my constituents that we have this situation, that we've led the country to the fact that we have unemployment, and it's spreading all the time. We have a very difficult situation in which we pay the children or the children’s money. In every village, and my colleagues have already spoken, and in cities, it is a common or social problem, all the time in which city leaders, villages, and various responsible authorities stumble. Today, this law, which we are considering and its 2243, is proposed, is somehow proposed to improve this situation. And this law, the first thing I would like to stress, proposes an increase in the amount of public social security contributions that have a salary of less than 150 dollars to 0.50. While in the current legislation, the rate of such contributions is 0.25. It is also proposed to raise the level of child - care payments to three - year - olds, not less than 15 percent of the living minimum. In addition to this bill, two areas such as Luganske and Cherniewecka are now subject to this experiment. There's a good thing about this, because today we can increase the level of social protection of the most under-secured groups of people. There's a note. These remarks were made by my colleagues. I also want to complement them by missing a category of unemployed who are not yet employed, but they're looking for work today, they're not falling under this law. This may not be very clear, but they do not fall under this law. How will this question be considered? I wanted to say more. I know I'm worried about this law, and I want you to know that. I recently turned to the Cabinet of Ministers, and I wanted an answer all the time, but it's not here today. Working in our district and in our time, we have made changes to the Law on Helping Lowly Families. Now that we're taking changes without reading one law, another law has been passed, and then it turns out that when a small family or a large family has many children, for example, seven like me in the district, they say, "You've made changes, then you've deleted an article that counts for total income." And today, families of many children, I apologize, do not receive this help for almost six months because we had such disagreements. And I would like this bill not to allow it. But in general, I can accept it in the first reading and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u119	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u120	Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council and the government have taken the path of forming a social insurance system, which I welcome you with, and we must continue on this path. Without the creation of a social insurance system, it is not possible to solve social problems on a solid, objective, reliable basis. So, of course, this bill is right. At the same time, it has to be admitted that we are significantly late to adopt this bill, as well as to form a social insurance system in general. Therefore, it is all the more necessary to accept it. I would like to mark the noble intentions of the drafters. That's what they're all about. First, reduce the tax pressure on the payroll fund. It's very important. We know that he's mad at us, so the pay is "flowing" in the shadows, it's paid in envelopes, it's hidden in wages and so on. That's why it's the right direction to reduce the tax pressure on the wage fund. 2. Increase payments from non-budgetary social funds through social tariffs. It is difficult to combine first and second, but it is also necessary to do so with the appropriate high art of economic politics. And the third. To guarantee these payments. Maybe that's even a basic point, because we don't really have that kind of guarantees. So I believe that the law should be upheld and adopted in the first reading. At the same time, regarding comments and suggestions to the bill. The bill proposes to address the social problems of social insurance through social tariffs rather than social standards. And this lack of social standards is troubling us all, but this bill on this particular issue draws us closer to the social standard. I mean, we have the goal of social standards. But we may not be able to move on to them right away, so we will make progress. One second. Reduce the tax pressure on the pay-for-work fund by 0.2 percent. I've already asked a question about this. It's a very normal modest step, a very short step, not even a step yet, but an attempt at something there. But it's really in the right direction. I think in the future we're going to have to keep going to reduce tax pressure. I don't quite agree with you, Elena Vasilyvna, when you said, "Well, how can we reduce tax pressure when we're still in debt for 800 million dollars." Similarly, high tax pressure increases debt. If we were to reduce tax pressure, we would reduce debt and increase income from insurance funds. Third moment. Experiment. An experiment is when you don't know what it's gonna end. It's all there is to know. I think it's not an experiment, it needs to be done, not a reference to what we're doing. It's the fourth time. As far as taxes are concerned. I agree that up to 185 dollars can't be counted against these funds because it's an integral part of the anti-poverty agenda. In general, the bill is a palatifist, but it is a small step in the right direction. So I think we can accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u121	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, please. Dear colleagues, we need to work more actively because there are a lot of issues that need to be considered today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u122	Dear national MPs, really good in this bill are good intentions, good intentions for lowering tax pressure. But since this is not distributed to the whole state, but only to a fraction of it, and also to a small size of 0.2 tenths of a percent, Ukraine's change or the people of Ukraine will not feel any change in that. The only thing I asked for was to go to this rostrum, for the first paragraph of the article said that zero is five percent, and for hired workers, disabled people who work in businesses, organizations of the Deaf Society and blind associations is 0.25 percent of the amount of wages that also affects their level. I went to Volinsky, Lvivsky, and some others, and I asked them about workshops that specialize in this direction, and they're doing something that's widely used there. Believe me, taking account of this category of people is a gross sin. As a result, I suggest that the mandatory rate is 0.25 percent of the Association of the Blind and the Association of the Deaf in general, not to be taken into account. It's not just that tax, all the other taxes, they can't make ends meet. But when they're busy, if they have any jobs, if they have care, it's very positive to expand this area and the form of service for this category, because they're disabled people. You realize that any trouble is a disaster, but already if the disabled group I is blind, it's probably the worst of all those troubles. Therefore, I would like to support what the previous speaker said, not to count until 185 at all, because there is nothing to count from, and regardless of the level of the disability pay of these two societies in general not to count the contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. I am introducing a draft Law on certain matters of payment to the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance. From the Pension Fund, please, Boris Alexandrovich, very shortly to five minutes, please. The committee thus suggests that we discuss it: 5 minutes to the rapporteur, 5 minutes to the question, 5 minutes to the co-report, and 7 minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? Well, we get a little bit more, a little more always. Please. Can I have a towel, please, from the procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u124	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is such a pressing issue that it should be discussed for as long as seven minutes. I think there's six people in there, all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Well, to be exact, I took a look here, and the committee wrote 10 minutes. Let's stick to the logic of the committee's proposal. Please, Boris Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u126	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable members of the national parliament, is proposing a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Assembly Payments for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, aimed at ensuring that the proceeds of funds to the pension fund are increased, by which the establishment of a level playing field for the payment of the collection by all owners, as well as the expansion of the tax base of the congregations. In particular, the bill foresees: (1) the reinstatement of the payment of the congregation to the pension fund by fixed agricultural tax payers, in the event of the restoration of the payment of the congregation’s compulsory state pension insurance on general grounds of additional income, from 2004 onwards, may amount to more than 863 million. ( 2) Suggests that the congregation be paid for compulsory state pension insurance of members of the collective group. other agricultural enterprises, agricultural cooperatives, farm farms, and those who rent suitable land and pies. In doing so, it will be set according to the payment of the congregation to the pension fund and the level of pension provision for all categories of citizens. Next. It is legislative to set tax limits for the collection of earnings within a sum not exceeding the sevenfold size of wages in the economic sectors of the previous year. This ratio, established by the Cabinet of Ministers, corresponds to the actual size of the specified limit during its existence, you remember that over a thousand dollars no longer went to the pension fund in July 98 and up to 2,200 dollars at that time. Four. With a view to establishing a direct dependency on the assignment of pensions and the payment of insurance benefits, it is suggested that the tax facility of the congregations cannot be less than the statutory minimum wage per month for each worker. What are we talking about? Some of our citizens who are paid their wages are now less than 185 dollars, and they're actually showing a salary of 67.8 dollars. Of course, there are significant losses here. And one more question. I would like to focus your attention on this bill, this is the total additional revenue to the Pension Fund, which will be adopted if this law is passed, will amount to over 1 billion dollars, starting in 2000. In addition, the bill stipulates that pension benefits cannot exceed the maximum amount of income paid by insurance contributions to pension insurance. The bill was approved at the focal point for the implementation of pension reform, and it was also reviewed and supported by the Supreme Council Committees, the Executive Directorate of the Supreme Council. During the drafting of the bill, the committees made comments on two issues. First. This is an expansion of the tax base by the collection of incomes for the acquisition of shares, the cost of travel, the cost of education, and so on, which is now exempt from the payment of income tax and the collection to the Pension Fund. We believe that this observation can be accepted and excluded from the bill in preparation for the second reading. And the next question. It refers to the restoration of the congregation’s payment of compulsory state pension insurance by fixed agricultural tax payers. This standard is aimed at establishing a level playing field in the congregation for all subjects involved in business activities. It's a situation. The benefits to the Pension Fund, on the one hand, violate the general principles of social insurance and, on the other hand, reduce the possibility of pension insurance for many thousands of citizens. It remains unresolved, and today it is a matter of retirement and payment in rural areas. If today’s income from fixed taxes and those who have not gone to fixed taxes provides only 7 percent of the pension requirement. If we look at the pension fund last year, it's 663 million dollars, and in rural areas, it's 8.3 billion dollars. I would also like to point out that the definition of additional sources of payment funding will be difficult to identify and the next increase in pensions. So I would like to support this bill as a whole with regard to the comments made, and they will be processed during the preparation of the draft for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Five minutes to ask. Let's take a look at the board. Yes, National Deputy Borschevsky, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u128	Boris Alexandrovich, the adoption of this, well, sparks a long-standing discussion in the hall. However, in order to make a conscious decision, I would like to ask you: please specify the amount of money that is not recovered from the Fund in connection with the introduction of a fixed agricultural tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u129	I'll give you an example. Last year’s Agrarian Labour Fund, according to Mineconomy, statistics, amounted to 4.4 billion dollars. If we were to get an income based on normal principles: 32 percent plus 1.7 from the Pay Fund, we would get some order of one and a half billion. Actual arrivals last year to the Agrarian Pension Fund amounted to 663 million. Here's the difference of almost 800 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u130	Yes. Please, Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u131	Dear Boris Alexandrovich, well, you know, and you called these figures that the village pays today about 13 - 17 percent of what it receives in the form of pensions. I have a question for you to announce and hear the pensioners, your prognosis. Well, all of this is done to increase the pension fund's income and gradually increase the pension size for those, the size of pensions that's blocked by the article, "Minimum pension size"? That's the first question. And the second. How will coming to the Pension Fund change with the minimum wage of 185 on 1 January and the budget of 165, and your budget, by the way, 165? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u132	Well, I can answer the second question. It's not about fixing the size, it's about paying it off. And with regard to the fact that expenses are not covered in rural areas. I'll give you an example that during the period of operation, I emphasize that during the period of operation of the fixed agricultural tax, 3 billion 835 million bracelets were made up of the Pension Fund. That's what we were supposed to get according to normal work patterns. As for the forecast of the future withdrawal of the pension security ceiling, I'll give you that answer. Consider all of us, including our listeners. From the Foundation of Payments under the traditional accounting scheme, 32 percent plus 1.7 percent of the possible costs were paid in the past year. So we don't have any right to add more to the payroll fund. And that's 98 percent and that's just a small 2 percent that gives us coverage in general to go 100 percent. And who pays in natural form, in another form of wage payments. We've got as much as we can. Keep increasing. You have to grow, you have to pay the work fund, you have to raise both GDP and you have to increase the share of pension payments in GDP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u133	Please, Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u134	I ask you to pass the word to Kirilchuk Eugen Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u135	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u136	Thank you, Levko Grigorovitch. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Fatherland, Kirilchuk, Volin. Boris Alexanderovich, you know, I read this bill, these numbers. Well, for the record, they're pretty and beautiful, and we could vote for them. But you do not feel that nothing can be removed from the naked. You see, peasants have the lowest wage. Tell me, if you get a bag of unginned barley for that pie, you're going to need money to pay for it. They don't give him money. In addition, until the government makes a normal price policy to control them today, until the people in the village who work, who don't raise, your law precedes events. You don't think so?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u137	As you think, I'm asking myself a question. If your Volin has an average pension of 126, average pension, average salary of 160. There is a standard set by ILO, the ratio of the average pension pay to the average wage, as you have on Volina, is 75 percent. ILO shows more than 35 percent. So the question is, "Are we going to be able to cover this any further, no. additional sources of income, without increasing the cost of the work fund, without increasing it, I emphasize?" Today, by making payments, I have already responded to your colleagues, in rural areas, we are, in fact, very critical of the solidarity system today, because of the solidarity of the existing system, we have the opportunity to redistribute and make pension payments in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u138	Thank you, Boris Alexandrovich, time is up. Have a seat, please. For a report from the committee, head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Burjak Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u139	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to stress that, first of all, the draft Ukrainian Law has been designed to ensure a stable flow of payments to the Ukrainian Pension Fund and, in view of the need for a step-by-step increase in pensions for a more full participation in the payment of insurance to members of collective and other agricultural enterprises, cooperatives and farms, as well as to persons who rent them suitable land shares, property rations other than pensioners. The bill provides for an expansion of the base for compulsory state pension insurance by amending certain legislations in Ukraine. That is, changes in the administration of this congregation. I mean, procedural, not material standards, which are reflected in the bill. It should be noted that the legal technique and the economic justification for the bill in question raises a lot of criticism and they were made by the Committee on Finance and Banking. Yes, the amendment to article 5, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on Income Tax for Citizens, namely, the exclusion of income from the sources of their acquisition of shares and the sums invested in the reconstruction and expansion of the production of business entities, the cost of medical travel, rest and children's camps, in addition to tourist and international camps, the sums paid for the maintenance and training of children and so forth. This will lead to a deterioration in both the investment climate and the rise in social tension. Moreover, it is not clear why only three cases of exclusion are foreseen in the number of 26 such payouts. It was necessary to amend paragraph 2 of article 5 of the above - mentioned Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, where there were cases where payments not included in the total tax income of citizens were not included in the determination of the tax base for insurance taxes, taxes, and congregations that are paid for the work fund, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. It should also be noted that a transparent economic justification for the need to make such changes -- I emphasize, a transparent reasoning -- does not contain an explanatory note to the bill. The proposed amendment to article 1, paragraph 3, of the above - mentioned law is of concern. The term “other persons who are not subjects of entrepreneurial activity and engage in income-related activities” is proposed to replace the terms “other persons who are not subjects of entrepreneurial activity and self-sustain themselves with a job, i.e. a source of income”. Legislation does not define such a term. And what the author of the legislative initiative meant was not clear from the explanatory note. The proposals proposed in the bill to extend the obligation of the congregation to pay fixed agricultural taxes, as well as to members of collective and other businesses, cooperatives, and farms, as well as to those who rent suitable rations, should be interpreted in a mixed manner. Taking into account the reform of the agri-industrial complex, the factors of some stability in this sector of the economy, the adoption of such a legislative initiative is now considered somewhat premature. It should be noted that the proposed addition to article 2 of this Act is part and parcel of the second part of the proposed addition to article 2 of this Act in respect of the collection of compulsory state pension insurance for congregation payers, as defined in paragraphs 1-4 of this Act, within the maximum amount of actual costs for the employment of employed workers, taxable income, total taxable income, which does not exceed 7 times the average monthly wage in the national economy. Other comments to the bill are made in the conclusions of the Chief Legal Authority and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. Taking into account the need for and relevance of the bill, the Committee on Finance and Banking proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill on the basis of further careful revision of the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, if you have any questions, please sign up. Five minutes to ask. On the board, please. National Deputy Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u141	It's Nikolaenko's word to pass. Nikolaenko, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u142	National MP Nikolaynko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u143	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I'm afraid I haven't been able to ask Zeichuk Boris Alexandrovich a question, but I think he's listening now. He made a suggestion that he would still enter a tax or, we'll say, a retirement fund for those agricultural producers who use, let's say, the only fixed tax. But we have this situation there, we have 70 to 80 percent of the wages today, they get in natural terms and then they write the heads of the colporteurs or. private ashtrays and stuff. They bet that the wheat costs 800 kilograms [800 kg] of tons, while the person received that ton, the market price of 200 dollars. And when we start collecting from what's stated by information and reality, we're going to have a terrible social tension. Now, I don't have people in the Hersonian district today who don't get paid for years, five to six years. And that's for a country like this, let's say that Hersonian doesn't give anything at all and she doesn't add anything. In principle, there is a problem, but there is no form of money there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u144	Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, if this is a question to me, I answer it. My position is that every Ukrainian citizen should receive a decent pension. First. My position is that everyone has to pay their pension bills. My position is that the administrative problem in this bill is correct and correct. And the problem that you're dealing with is the market problem, that's the price policy problem, that's the region problem, that's the problem, well, if you want, the agricultural sector at all, but not the private pension reform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u145	Yes, please, Ivancho, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u146	Ivancho, "Our Ukraine" faction. Your Honor, why does the bill set a maximum wage limit for the congregation at the average of seven payments?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u147	This is what the drafters believe. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u148	Is that normal?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u149	If you have any idea, let's do this on the second reading, I'll do it tomorrow. Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u150	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u151	Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I'd like to ask you this question. Hinzburg, Communist faction. I asked myself how. The conversation goes on, and I keep thinking to myself, if I fell asleep in 1991, and then woke up this year, and then I saw what was going on there, you could actually touch your head like that. And now it's about making a person who gives pies, for example, not a pensioner, who rents pies to someone in a lease, there, a state act, or a non-state act, but it's just about a colstopian distribution. She's giving away the land. And is it proposed in this law to take what amount from the value of the land in this insurance? I have a question for you: What is the amount and what is the price of the land? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u152	I think that according to the cadastre and according to the estimates of the earth. But, Mrs. Olga, I understand your pain. And the position is that I agree with Stanislav Mikolayovich, who thinks that if a man doesn't get a salary or get it with grain or sugar, right? Where, then, is his pension commitment? But, but... Mrs. Olga, but, dear friends, everyone has a pension to pay. And everyone pays their pension bills. All of it. Period. According to earth estimates, the cadastre is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, then, I think we'll ask you to find out in detail and hold consultations if necessary. Sergei Matvienkov, please, the People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u154	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Sergey Vasilevich, well, my ironborn belief that the consolidated system that exists today, no matter how much we correct it, and no matter how much the Kabmin representative speaks or defends it today, it has basically exhausted itself for one simple reason. Because it's worth looking at. We have 0.8 pensioners for one employee today. It's a one-time thing. And no matter how we spin, no matter what we believe, we won't be able to pull a single pensioner in five years. Most of all, what we have achieved today is that we have equalized virtually everyone. The person who has smelled his whole life and who, if you will excuse me, hasn't worked a day, today they're getting almost the same pension, a tiny pension that doesn't solve this issue. That is why this is, in general, a reform of the pension system and perhaps we should come up with a vision of reforming the pension system. But it's about my question. So I listened to your committee's opinion that you were taking these questions off. It's a payout for school income, child support and so on and so on. You're still going to clarify clearly and clearly, because that's double taxation for today. Is this a question taken, so to speak, after the first reading, or will you, so to speak, change to the second? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u155	Sergei Anatolyevich, thank you for asking. Part one. You know, on first reading, we passed a law that begins to reform pension legislation and pension law in general. I believe that we have passed a progressive law. I therefore invite you to participate actively in the preparations for second reading. In this case, we do not exclude only three of the 26 cases, Sergey Anatolevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u156	Yes, Alexander the Road, the People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u157	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Roadside, People's Landing Group, Kiev, 213 constituency. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, I have two questions. The comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office point out that this bill, if adopted as a law, may have retroactive force. And of course it doesn't correct the Constitution. How did you pay attention when you discussed this bill at the committee meeting? And second moment. Your grade. Do you see the prospect of processing this with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the management of the Pension Fund in such a way as to go to an acceptable bill in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u158	I'm convinced of that. Because the problem of administration lies essentially in a plane that can be solved. I am sure that the administration issue will be resolved fairly and productively with Kabmin and the Pension Fund. About your first part. I think we'll pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u159	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Dear colleagues, seven people were enrolled. I have an offer. If you don't mind, we'll have a discussion in 14 hours and we'll finish this bill and then we'll call it a break. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u160	"Our Ukraine," Yuri Carmazin, Solidarity, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear colleagues, distinguished people of Ukraine. The pension system, like the entire system of state power in Ukraine today, has exhausted itself, it falls down, it needs change. The changes that are being proposed today, whether they meet today’s needs or not. First of all, the title of the law, think about: "Some issues of payment to the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance. It's called the law: "Some questions.".. Is that a basic law or a law for making changes? If the law on making changes, let us say that this is the law on making changes and additions to the laws of Ukraine, and we will call it: the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance, about. and further into the Law on the Prosecutor's Office, where it is proposed to make changes, all the way to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, all the way to the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering. So it's probably legal to define the name of this law in a completely different way: "As far as--and continue--the collection of compulsory state pension insurance." It's about a name. What social orientation. As for the social orientation of this law, I have no doubt that the authors wanted to do better, they wanted to tax everything, but they came out as usual. And this law, in my opinion, will increase social tension and it will intensify. Think for yourself, please. In the event that this project is adopted by this congregation, the cost of compulsory state pension insurance will be paid: the cost of medical travel, rest in children's health camps, the cost of maintenance and training of children in preschool institutions, general secondary, vocational and technical establishments, higher education facilities, aid amounts, the cost of gifts given once a year, within the size of the subsistence minimum. Next. Will there be an increase in social protection? I think there's only going to be a weakening of social protection. So I think it was very right that Sergey Vasilovich Burjak was here, who gave three quarters of his speech to the negatives, but he didn't say that by adopting the concept of this law, the concept, we would be trapped by then, because we approved such a shameful concept. So you have to say, let's send the law or re-read it, and let the government erase everything that's wrong, and the concept changes that law and it leaves only social orientation, social concept and the concept of social justice. That's why I'm so conceptual. It needs such a law conceptually, but to destroy the villages just as the law proposes. And then there's this bump in the village, and there's this terrible blow in the village, and it's just going to destroy the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u161	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u162	I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u163	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group, prepare for Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u164	Dear Vassili, Lugansk Region, People's Choice. Dear colleagues, today we can discuss with you anything, talk about what will be buried in the village, talk about how we will save a human being. But let us speak and that is the main, perhaps, of numbers and facts. The facts are as follows. To date, all payments to the Pension Fund will not be made by a person but by an employer. That's the first one. Second. We are talking to you today about the five million pensioners who live in the village, 36 per cent of the 13 million 800,000 pensioners in Ukraine in general. So today we condemn the situation of what kind of pension it may be and what we can do with you to make the pension of 5 million people living in Ukraine more. Here's your numbers. I want to tell you that for today, the monthly pension requirement for rural pensioners is 690 million grivens. Self-reliance on pensions instead of 690 needs less than 50 million per month. That is to say, the village today gives 7 per cent of the money that the same rural pensioners need. Hence, 93 per cent of the village's pensions are made from the Pension Fund and are made up of urban pensioners, respectively. I do not want to conduct a water section between rural and urban pensioners, but so far, the income for one agricultural worker from fixed farm payers is 15.6 bracelets. The average village pension is 146.7 bracelets. I mean, today, one village worker gives a tenth of what a pensioner gets in the country. So when we discuss with you that the introduction of an innkeeper or the right to say it is not just an increase in the Pension Fund, but an increase in the amount of pension for today's pensioners, that is, a basis for increasing pensions. And second moment. Today, all who work have no de facto guarantees for those who pay a fixed agricultural worker to receive their employment pension. Therefore, the situation today is as follows. The introduction of these payments, on the one hand, we will increase the amount and, on the other hand, the payment of pensions to today's pensioners, and the most important, and more precisely and equally, the fact that we will give those working in agriculture today the right to a pension when they retire. Today they can only rely on a social pension, which they are ashamed to call a pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u165	Olga Hinzburg, Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u166	Ginsburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. In general, I consider this problem of compulsory state pension insurance as a problem that has arisen in the country and the normal provision of our pensioner's pensions. I mean, we need to adopt a law with you today that provides for a normal pension for a pensioner. That's how I get it. And in the same vein, I understand that this law or amendment to the law will not give us anything in this regard. And it's just now that we're sitting and negotiating these processes, and we're talking about this, we're just sort of confusing our problems to our pensioners. That's a fact. I don't know why I'm saying that. I find such problems in this law. Here my colleagues have already said, "The essence of change is. First. Involved in the congregation’s payment of compulsory state pension insurance for fixed agricultural tax payers. And then I'm going to figure out what the problem is for me. That's another one for me. They are counted for the purpose of calculating earnings only within the limits of actual costs for the employment of hired workers and the taxation of income from which the congregation manages. To establish that an object of taxation by the congregation cannot be less than the minimum wage. Questions. Let me ask you a question. Next. Stock acquisitions, profits. From the cost of medical trips, recreation in child - care camps, and so forth, the cost of maintaining and teaching children in preschool institutions. As far as the village is concerned and the wages are concerned, children’s kindergartens in the village today are almost unfunded and the wages are not at all there. Children are fed for their money. Next. I'd like to stay on top of that. That's how I want to get there, and I'm so worried about it. I read when I take the law, I read to myself. "A fixed agricultural tax rate of 1 hectare per hectare of agricultural land as a percentage of its monetary value on 1 July 1995 from land value." For different synogrees and pastures it's 0.16 percent, for multi-year plants it's 0.96, for different haystacks and pastures it's 0.16, for multi-year plantings in different zones it's 0.32 and so on. That's what I understand. I've got a neighbor and my village, and he's renting out six acres. He's told, "Dear neighbor, you're mine, you've got to give money for the value of the land today, according to this law." I don't understand, the government is making these proposals today. Today we are discussing this with you deputies. I propose that there should be such proposals, but the approach to such a decision is a global decision, when pensioners get a small salary, the Pension Fund can pay more, it has. There are problems, and there is a need for a state-level approach to this issue. The hope of sitting down, of negotiating what we can do today in our economic state, where the state is, what we can do today, not just talk about it, and then not execute it, and at that time vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u167	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Black Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u168	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues, after we've had this discussion, there's an impression that can be characterized by a famous expression: "Noise, brothers, noise!".. What exactly is involved in the law? Under the slogan to find additional incomes to the Pension Fund, it is actually proposed to redistribute the money that is available and will not be larger, from one pocket to the other, and submit it as a reform. The following can be said at the five points in the bill. A fixed agricultural tax or a congregation of 32 percent of the employee’s salary fund. People are good! Now I'm going to emphasize the average wage, which in some order is going to be named, stressed. In the village, the average wage of 160 dollars is 365 dollars, in the capital city of our famous hero Kiev is 670 dollars, and if you look at the announcements that are every week in the newspaper Business Capital, there's for different managers and not very tops less than 2,000 dollars, and for very outstanding ones, 5,000 or 7,000 dollars. Where the fat money offered by modern President Kuchma, when he was on his first term as President of Ukraine, promised, "I know where to find them and what order to invite them." Let's not redistribute these miserable average wages and pensions where there's nothing left to take, where they're outside the poverty line, and look where the wages of more than 700 dollars today are. And so this is the limit that they're offering, where more than 7 average wages, we're not going to do this anymore. Or is it the other way around? There to offer a progressive tax, a progressive congregation. What are we doing, good people? And what is most depressing is what has already been criticized in this bill, is the taxation of the cost of travel for treatment, rest, and so forth. People are good, if necessary, let's say this: depending on the income of the family. If this income is for the whole family, it's outside the poverty line, no tax should be there. Wealthy people pay taxes, and poor people who are beyond poverty remain with the pitiful help that they are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u169	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u170	Dear National Deputies! We went to the market so quickly that we lost our pensioners along the way, and we are now facing the need to reform the pension system. And in his speech today, the Head of the Supreme Council stressed that this was our first priority. Of course, it is not this specific bill, which is a partial bill, but it is a systemic reform of the pension system. It is about reforming the solidarity system and supplementing it with compulsory and voluntary social insurance. Three levels. In this case, some changes in government compulsory insurance are involved. That's the context in which we're looking at this. That's it. There is no simple solution to the problem. We are faced with a difficult choice now, and this is felt in the speeches of our deputies. We are facing a dilemma: either reducing the ratio of the average pension to the average wage, i.e. lowering the level of pension insurance; or expanding the base of contributions to the pension fund. Some deputies stood by the first part of the dilemma, the other side of the second part. And we probably have to compromise, in my opinion, because we can't reduce the level of pension insurance, we can't, the rules can't reduce and we can't take too much pension contributions there, where it can't do that, where it leads to social tension, to less investment opportunities. In this regard, I tend to differ from my colleague in the Karmazin faction, who we should be disgusted to vote in favour of the draft in the first reading, that is, conceptually support the idea itself, the concept. But at the same time, I share what the MPs have said to many that we need to review the register of sources of additional income to the pension fund. And I guess we don't all agree with what the head of the pension fund is offering us. Now, by the way, the whole burden is being passed on to the employer. Of course, employers will not be interested in this and will be against it. But this trend is common to all pension systems in the world, where the main burden lies with employers. But at the same time, we need to create normal conditions so that they can work, of course. Now I think we need to look for the sources, probably not just the ones you called, but the main source of income for the pension fund is the hidden salary. If we could reduce the amount of hidden wages, we would significantly increase the budget. I share the suggestion that family income should be taken instead of income for a single family member. Then it will be fairer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u171	National Deputy Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Get ready for Kirilchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u172	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, the issue of improving the pension provision of our citizens has long been obsolete. Tens of millions of people look forward to an increase in pensions because it is very difficult to live on what they receive at today’s prices and tariffs. Hence, the search for additional sources of filling of the Pension Fund is extremely relevant and justifiable. But the government, by submitting appropriate bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is eager to do so on the basis of extensive factors. Instead of taking effective measures to improve the situation in industry, agriculture, and other sectors of the economy, and in view of this increase in income from the Pension Fund, he is trying to resolve this issue by including in the list of congregation payers for compulsory state pension insurance of nontraditional subjects and manipulations with rates of interest in the congregation. This is particularly true of members of agricultural enterprises who still receive money for their work, and this is where various taxes and congregations from these meager incomes are gradually added. The same is true of land and property owners who rent them to suitable rural owners. Soon the state will have a rental fee, by the way, also a penny, which will be more convenient to sell to someone for free or for free than to have in their own possession. This is a reform for the peasant. The same is true of agricultural enterprises, the vast majority of which barely make ends meet. On the one hand, monopolies and traders skin off, on the other hand, the state through taxes and congregations leads to bankruptcy. The question is, Why was a fixed agricultural tax introduced in 1999? Answer: So that agricultural enterprises can get on their feet. Have they been strengthened to this day? No, it's not. So why is the government choking them? Ukraine’s Act on Fixed Agricultural Taxes ends on January 1, 2004. It would be right to extend it for three or five more years. Instead, at the end of last year, more pressure was put on these businesses by the congregations. Yes, under the insistence of the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine, in my view, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted in the first reading a bill providing that agricultural enterprises, in addition to a fixed tax, would also pay compensation for pension benefits, and would now pay the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance under the bill. Even though the fixed tax rates are declining, this should not be done. That's why I'm making an offer. Changes concerning the village and the peasants from this draft law are excluded. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u173	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u174	Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Volin. I probably wouldn't ask for a word just because my colleague Nadrag made me speak. He made such a balance between the city and the village that peasants do not make a pension. And he blames the peasant. I think it is the fault of today’s system of government, for farmers today produce grain, food from meat to oil. And all of this is being processed in the city. So the basic money, the main production is produced in cities. Because of this balance, it is not something you cannot do, but it is a sin to do it. Ukraine. We know that some 25-3 percent of the grain is paid to peasants for their meat today because no peasants will go to the district center or in Kiev to sell their own produce, and the mafia will not allow it. In addition, a sunflower that is exported both in secret and officially. If you put all this money together, it's going to be an astronomical figure. More than 20 billion dollars were taken from the peasants, and now they are obliged to pay for a bag of unpunished grain, 50 copies per hectare per day for the farmer to earn the pie. We can still look for money here. The main money is where the oil is processed, where the goods are unloaded by traders. Where the gold is about the circle. Where there is double accounting in each high institution, starting with a bank and ending with a private one. And in this double accounting, there's information where the minimum wage is placed, and the maximum wage goes in the converted currency. I mean, in envelopes. That's where we need to look for the expansion of the sphere of influence of the entire tax system. Including the Pension Fund. I don't mind the idea of the project itself, but you can't accept it. I suggest we postpone it to read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-04-m0.u175	Dear colleagues! Question completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Now, allow the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be closed. We'll continue our work at 4:00.
