ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:06:56]] Registered -431 There were 431 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Gabrieluk Vasilovich. Let's say hello to him, what's more, he's 33 years old today. [[Applause]] Honourable People's Deputies, on June 24, 2003, the Central Election Commission registered with the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kulczynski Mikol Georgievic, elected on March 31, 2002, in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the election bloc of political parties, Victor Yuszczenko's "Our Ukraine". In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kulczynski Mikola Georgievic, is invited. Please, is there a Mikola Georgievich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u3	Yes, let's welcome our colleague, ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. And I will, while there are no objections, announce the parliamentary questions that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Istwana Hydos to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the situation caused by the lack of funding for work on flood protection in the Tis Zakarpatsk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:49]] For-97 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of separate paragraphs of the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 20 January 1997 No. 44 "On the approval of taxes on wood, forestbeds released on stumps and on grass". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:29]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Valery Desert Stenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the misconduct of the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine regarding the business of the Odessa Sea Trade Port. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:02]] For-93 Decision taken. Anatolia Franchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the damage caused by the B. factory and by the name of Čkalov of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:31]] For-19 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing individual officials to justice of the State Committee on Forestry and its structural units for the service negligence of causing damage to the State budget. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:08]] For a-117. Decision taken. Anatolia Kukoba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for complying with the current legislation with the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources order of 23 May 2003 establishing a single system for the registration of land, immovable property and rights in the form of a State Land cadastre and the improvement of the structure of the state-owned enterprise, the Centre of State Land cadastre with the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:57]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Vasil Redvoni and Sergey Alexiyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for insufficient study of the "History of Ukraine" and the anti-Ukrainian attempts by the heads of the Ministry of Education and Science to shorten the course of Ukrainian history in the central and higher educational institutions of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:33]] For 115 Decision taken. Valery Mishura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the legality of the order of the Head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine from 18 June 2003 on the provision of language for state broadcasters and on national channels “UT-1” and “UT-2”. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:15]] For the 180. Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of existing legislation by certain officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:46]] Z-91 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, on the return of funds to war veterans and the work of the Science Change Foundation of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and other investors of Ukrharchoprombank in connection with its liquidation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:21]] For 1052 Decision taken. Mykih Kruz to the Ukrainian Minister of Health about the allocation of cars for the advancement of children with special needs. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:51]] For-163 Decision taken. Anatoly to the Head of the Department of State for the execution of penalties for violations of the law by certain officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:20]] For 105 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the decision of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of privatization to ensure that the Office of the Prosecutor takes action to protect the property rights of members of the Association of Military Hunters and fishermen of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:00]] For a-117. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Korniaková, for the verification and removal of the illegal sale of objects of social and employment by individual officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region, which has caused material damage to the State in a particularly large way and to bring the guilty to justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:42]] For-161 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about rising prices and measures to overcome the food crisis. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:08]] For-147 Decision taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the theft of collective property of a society of limited liability "Ukraine" in the Odessa region of Velikomyhail. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:37]] For-90 Decision taken. Once again, Vladimir Onishuk told the Attorney General of Ukraine about the illegal logging of the forest in the Zebrakov Forest Farm of the Odessa region of Velikohoclov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:07]] For the 180. Decision taken. Oleg Tragnibok to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-use of real opportunities and treatment, the healing of children with various diseases resulting from the weakening of the immunity caused by the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:41]] For-151 Decision taken. Oleg Tajnibok to the Kiev City Head, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions on the elimination of the image of the State Herb of the non-existent State of the Soviet Union on the front of the central building of the Ukrainian trade unions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:15.]] For-119 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of justice and the cancellation of pension benefits under special conditions of service to military personnel released to the reserve. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:46]] For 171 Decision taken. Let's move on to the speeches, from the procedure, please, Valentin Matthew, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that when we vote on parliamentary motions, we are in breach of procedure. Thus, the requirements of the current Rules, such as Article 8.3.2, are not met, and it is clearly stated that at the same time a national MP can ask no more than two questions. And the links to the Constitution can't be defined here at all. That's why I'm asking, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, all the more so that you gave orders to the Secretary of the Supreme Council, more loyally, that there be no such violations in the conduct of the parliamentary motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u5	I ask the people's deputies not to submit their requests directly to the Presidium, and the Secretariat is asking for more control so that no more than two requests are from one national MP. The point is quite fair. Let's move on to the factions, statements, queries, messages. The word is given by Vaszczuk Catherine Timofievna, Head of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party’s MP. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! In recent weeks, all of us have become witnesses and participants in the great increase in the food market around flour, peas, sugar. It's both in the center and in the regions. There were great queues where they were not there yesterday. Farmers warned of such a sad situation as should be, and not once. You and I have developed and adopted the Grain and Market Act, which clearly states that an intervention fund is to be created in the State and that an intact state reserve or state supply of these products should be created. What was the situation? Last year, neither the faction's appeal to the government from this rostrum, nor personal meetings with the government, and Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, unfortunately, did not produce any results. We didn't set up an intervention fund in the state to buy grain. The grain was bought into peasants for no price, 200 or 300 dollars, and today it's worth 900 or 1,000 dollars. If there is no government reserve, you can play the card in the market. This is an answer to those who say that today the market can regulate everything. Dear colleagues! It will depend on us not to make these mistakes again this year. We cannot come upon the same rakes indefinitely. There is to be at least 450 million in the government budget to generate at least two or three months' supply of bread, flour, peas, sugar, and all the essentials. This is what we should all remember today. Because when voting for the budget, everyone in favor of this article forgets. The other one. There's not much dinner this year. And it's not going to be easy for us to keep the food market. We want to keep this in mind by now adopting laws. I am also grateful to all the agrarians of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, under his leadership last week, a meeting was held where we specifically defined what laws are not words, not slogans, and laws can immediately influence the situation in the country. We suggest we postpone payment to the tax budget. Postponing or withdrawing in general fines for electricity payments, unpaid taxes on crops, the economic situation in the countryside, and fixed taxes, value added taxes, support for the production and development of agricultural products and others, six of them, are scheduled for Wednesday and four for consideration in the Supreme Council. We can have a significant impact on the economic situation and on the real support of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u7	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, head of the Ukrainian Communist MP’s faction Prepare Bondarenko Gregory.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u8	Dear voters, dear colleagues! We Communist MPs consider it our civic duty to state the following. Real famine threatens Ukraine and our hardworking people today. People are thrown away on a voluntary basis before the daily rise in food prices. The analysis of the causes of this situation gives us reason to sincerely state that the significant decline in agricultural crops this year is not due to adverse climate conditions but is the result of destructive anti - national policies, policies of today’s authorities. The government must be responsible for the forced destruction of large - scale production, destruction and theft of major production funds, social areas of the village, and the predatory use of land by so - called effective owners for the purpose of maximizing profits. Today's rural situation is also the result of the planned destruction of meliority systems and structures, as has been done in Hersonland, the violation of science-based symmetries, the neglect of executions and measures to ensure soil fertility. This authority supports an incredible price distortion in agricultural production and industry, ignoring the introduction of government procurement for basic agricultural products and strategic seed reserves. Today’s authorities force the sale of land, contribute to and contribute to the mass occurrence of random, unprepared people in the countryside who are so - called effective owners, who are gravemen of the agricultural sector, and targeted terror is being carried out with regard to leaders who advocate the preservation of collective forms of property and farming. The government, today, is in charge of criminal mafia clans, not taking responsibility for the consequences of what's going on in the countryside. So a faction of communists requires: first, to put all the other issues aside and to hold an urgent meeting of the Supreme Council, to consider the situation in the APC and the government. This meeting should be held with the participation of the prime minister, his deputies, and the report of the Minister of Economy of Bezkokowski. I'm addressing you, dear fellows! For two months now, all of Ukraine knows that there is no crop and there will be no crop. Why was the Ministry of Economics doing nothing to ensure proper control over pricing and what is happening today in the state? We should listen to the Customs Committee today and ask: Why were these 300 different commercial structures exported abroad to grain? Today, the budget calls for additional money for exporting grain, and the state is destroying its own people today because of this policy? We have to ask the Security Service today, why did this happen? Why, so to speak, did the Ukrainian National Security Council in charge not then, with Marchuk, predict the situation? I would also like to propose, today we have to make this decision, this is a responsible decision: we have to stop all the reforms that the President and his supporters have initiated. And today, let's really think about what we can do and how we can stop it. Reforms. Today we need to adopt the Agrarian Rescue Program. Today, there is a need to ban the increase in the price of bread. And I ask you, honourable Members, to support the offer of Communists: to impose a moratorium today on raising the price of bread and other products. The Attorney General’s Office needs to investigate and prosecute criminal cases based on the facts of the crimes committed against the state officials who planned the destruction. We urge all of our supporters today, Ukrainian citizens, to join the Communist initiatives on the ground immediately and to take action of civil disobedience against this wayward policy regarding the prices of commercial transactions and which are being enriched today on the mountain and the misery of our people. The Communist faction once again calls for an urgent meeting and then only to consider other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u9	Gregory Bondarenko of the European Choice Group, to prepare Alexander Frost. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u10	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. I was forced to go out to this rostrum as soon as I visited Kiev, in my constituency. Although the issue of crops has grown, the price of grains, sugar, which my colleague has just talked about, I'll talk about something else. Graduation points were recently made up in schools. The last call was made earlier. There were tall guests everywhere. The first ones, the second ones, not the first ones, but not the second ones. A familiar expression. The local authority is the sea. The distraught directors were lost. We didn't know where to plant anyone. And here's the pain and despair they're demonstrating now that they're out of celebrations and that day, they're having more trouble, more anxiety at heart. Some broken windows can't be locked, others can't be broken. I need a dozen skulls. There's nothing to buy. And everybody's gassing. Gas through the road, but the school doesn't have to burn, they can't, there's only one and a half thousand dollars missing. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of how we were elected deputies, especially Majorists. I hope you remember that incomfort and cold. And the cultural houses, the more clubs, everyone promised we'd do better. Everything's as it was. As for the FAPs, there were no promises about them. The chieftain is healthy, he doesn't look at the medics. And Fapam, besides gas, also needs water. There's just no water around here. And now let's imagine that this is going to stay that way. Thousands of schoolchildren will find themselves in the cold on stretches. The efforts we have made in this room will be undermined to solve the problem of child recovery. And what the father and mother will say that they have done all they can and cannot do to prepare the child well for school. And how does political reform feel about those who freeze in cold fapas? Does a youth who forgets a bit about dancing at a club? I would like to point out that I am not talking about repairs or constructions that require serious funding. It is a small thing that does not need much money, but it touches millions of people, thus gaining national weight. I did some analysis on my constituency. It's dark, it's low-cost, but it's very necessary. There are objects that need only 2 or 3 thousand dollars and serve thousands of people. In the Voddar region, for example, 8 such objects are found. These are schools, hospitals, kindergartens. In the Tetian region, seven such gas-treated villages, the FAPs, without gas. And the cost of an underwater pipeline does not exceed 5,000 dollars. In the district, we're going to need not much or little -- about 50,000 -- for the area -- about 2,000. In Ukraine this sum is probably a few million. Convinced: This kind of money can be found, especially in places. If necessary, changes can be made to the Budget. To this end, it is appropriate to create full working groups in the Cabinet of Ministers. The composition of the government is clear: Deputy Prime Minister and three ministers: education, science, health, culture and art.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u12	We could get our profile committees online, too. Please consider this statement to be a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u13	Alexander Alexanderus ’ word is Moroz. Get ready for Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. I don't want to make a statement from the faction because we've made several statements about the food problem. In September of last year, we warned that authorities, government authorities, were forcing peasants to attribute the fall of crops in order to break the price of bread. And the consequences will be devastating, we talked about this a year ago. We demanded the purchase of 2.5 million tons of grain to the reserve. It's all down on the brakes. In March we reiterated the conclusion that the government and the President are doing nothing in this direction. The government had a general discussion of the problem. A month ago, an application was made for a threat of famine in Ukraine. There's nothing here again. What happened as a result? According to the government’s activities, prices have been reduced, and about 7 billion dollars have been robbed by peasants. This is confirmed by calculations. Those who have robbed are now launching a speculative scheme to re-emerge 7 billion already in the urban population, and not just urban, bread prices. Discussing how to beat up TV - made government officials is not worth anything. The check by our experts showed that the elevators were empty where the state reserve was to be kept. It was no accident that the Hispanics were sent to other republics in Kazakhstan to buy something. I'm sure, and the faction demands that we gather everyone today: The Cabinet of Ministers, today to hold a meeting with factions and committee leaders, to determine what should be done by the Supreme Council, what should be done by the government. You can knock down the price today. And Catherine Timofievna, your vice-premier, who has worked before, could have long ago made a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, which gives the government administrations a place to regulate prices for flour and crumbs. So that's why under the cover of administration, government, ministries, and departments, outspokenly in front of the eyes, there's an affair that the world has never known. This simply shows that the economic and political system does not meet the needs of society. I'll just give you a few digits. In the last 10 days, prices have risen 1.5 to 1.8 times in Ukraine, 2 to 2.5 times in flour, 2 to 3. A loaf of bread costs 3 pounds [3 kg]. Grapes rose, bought Greek bracelets for a kilo, and sold today for 6 bracelets per kilogram. It's economic idiocy, if you talk about what's going on in Ukraine today. So the faction will consider the issue exhausted when the peasants are able to return the stolen 7 billion dollars, and when the prices return to their position on January 1st of this year. Once again, I urge the MPs to demand a meeting with the government today so that adequate measures can be found so that the government does not deal with nonsense, through Parliament and the Constitutional Court, the changes required by the President to the Constitution, but rather deal with the issues that are being dealt with functionally.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u15	Bogdan Hubsky from the People's Authority MP group, please. Prepare Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let me publish a statement by the People's Government MP on recent developments in the consumer market in Ukraine and the unusual situation that has arisen in Ukrainian society in this connection. "The People's Government MP has repeatedly expressed concern about the rise of negative phenomena in the agro-industrial complex. Today, however, basic food products that help many Ukrainian citizens survive become virtually unattainable. Because we can see that over the last two months, the price of sugar has risen by more than 30 percent and has reached more than four and a half pounds of flour and bread today, nearly 50 percent, the grains, including Greek, have risen by almost three times, while the average nominal wage for May, for example, has risen by about 3.9 percent. Given that the Greek grain is not the only food for the diabetics, for a large part of the Ukrainians, such a high price means a hungry animal. In our view, it is also obvious that there are estimates of an agro-industrial state policy, particularly in the area of export-import operations. Yes, despite poor, pessimistic crop forecasts and despite the shortage of grains in Ukraine, nearly 2 million grains have been exported outside the country since the beginning of this year. The consequences of this general situation are difficult to predict. The country’s social stability and steady economic growth were threatened. It is done, in our view, by a tangible blow to the newly created constructive mechanism of cooperation that is effective, and I emphasize the cooperation of the legislative and executive branches of government. The activities of the executive authorities responsible for the state of affairs in the countryside and their local divisions are now increasingly becoming traditional complaints about the whims of the weather, the sad findings of the school, and, more importantly, the use of administrative resources. We are absolutely convinced, by bans, threats, administrative pressure on food producers, we are just blowing up the wind on the counters, and with it we are blowing up massive social passions. In view of the accumulated experience of the fruitful cooperation of the Cabinet of Ministers with the Supreme Council, the People's Authority's parliamentary group calls for joint, extraordinary decisions to be made immediately to satisfy the food market with the necessary products. Economically, I stress, economic values to ensure the stability of price policy and to increase the specific responsibility for the consequences of destructive policies and destabilization in the agro-industrial economy. We are obliged to coordinate the efforts of the authorities, at last, to develop a common governmental mind, to prejudice, to emphasize, to prejudice negative phenomena in the strategic agricultural sector of our country. Otherwise, today’s food market situation can have irreparable consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u17	The word is given by Julia Timoshenko, Head of the MP’s faction Yulia Timoshenko's block, get ready for Shufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u19	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u20	I want to draw your attention to today's 1st meeting of the Supreme Council after the country's food price crisis. And now tens of millions of people are sitting at the radio to listen to what the Supreme Council is going to do on this first day of its work to stop this grief that every person has experienced today. I don't think those people who are listening to the radio right now need to talk about thousands of food queues because they're in these queues. They don't have to tell you that there's been a 5-6-fold increase in the cost of these products because they pay for it and they know it better for us. It's about what they want to hear, what we can do with you today for them, what we can do to stop this terrible situation. Many people live in the village and realize that droughts, frosts, and locusts are also found in other civilized lands, but this does not result in crop destruction. And that means just unorganized agricultural production. We know very well that speculators are in every country, but in no civilized country other than Ukraine, these speculators can do what is being done in the markets today. Today, the world market is open and it's not a problem in Ukraine to provide ploughs, flour, grain, for the world. What's important right now is how we figure out how to work. And that's why our proposal is next. At 14 o'clock today, we will hold an urgent meeting of the leaders of factions, committee leaders and government leaders with regard to the work of a very clear list of specific regulations and bills that we are about to adopt today. Today, without exception, all questions that are not related to the crisis that is now in Ukraine. I think we can do the basics. The prices that are in the country today are not related to any market displays, and we know that with you. It's not a market. We have to consider the issue of indicative temporary prices today. We need to consider removing all obstacles to import those products that are needed. We need to learn what is in the woodshed today. We have to get a list of those wholesale suppliers in Ukraine who now have supplies and much more. And so, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you right now to put to the vote the question that at 2 p.m. today, a joint council of the government and parliament must be announced publicly, which factions supported this, which did not support people to know how Parliament reacts. At 2 p.m., work out proposals and by the end of the day in Parliament adopt the necessary regulations and bills. We have to create an absolutely dynamic group in Parliament that will respond to all the government and parliament's proposals. Extraordinary events require extraordinary action from all of us. I thank you for your attention and look forward to a 14 - hour joint meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u21	The word is authorized by the faction of the Social-Democratic Party of Ukraine of the united Nestor Ivanovich Schufric. Get ready, Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. The faction of the United Social Democrats agrees that we cannot look away at the critical situation that is now in the countryside, and we call on the Supreme Council to find an opportunity today to discuss this issue and to make concrete steps to address the situation that has taken place around the prices of bread and other products. Dear colleagues! On Sunday night, a city head election took place in the town of Mukacheva Zakarpatska district. The interesting thing is that the city authorities are actually in the hands of "Our Ukraine" today, which has repeatedly, after each other's or after-elections, accused the authorities of violating the electoral laws. Interestingly, the territorial commission and 90 percent of the district commissions were made up of people who depend directly on city authorities or commercial structures that are subordinated. which was founded by the National Deputy of Ukraine Victor Baloga and his environment, including the candidate from "Our Ukraine" Victor Pitovka. From the left parties, the centrist parties, and the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko was nominated for Ernest Nusser. I mean, now we're not going to comment on the electoral process itself and the campaign for a candidate from "Our Ukraine" on the day of the vote. I welcome the presence of 12 national deputies from "Our Ukraine" and the authorized human rights and the two-day stay of Victor Yushchenk in the elections, because they were able to see for themselves what was happening during the vote. When it was discovered that a candidate from the left parties, the parties of the centre and the block of Yulia Timoshenko had been suspended at eleven locations, ballots were collected, and ballots were taken in an unknown direction. In three of the three districts, police officers were taken out to ensure order during the vote. Observers from Ernest Nuser of the 12 districts were voted out of the office by the decision of the district commission. I'm not talking about the fact that there are generally known facts about the discovery of trotyle mines before the election, and the warning of the national MPs from our Ukraine about replacing the district administration of the UMBS. Dear colleagues, I am convinced that what has happened has gone beyond all possibilities and violations. We have witnessed as many violations as possible. I hope that the just Mucakov court will put a stop to this question. Interestingly, the prosecutor of Mukachevo was on his way to the Attorney General’s Office on election day. I want the Attorney General of Ukraine to give a proper assessment of the activities of the law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u23	Let's work it out this way. Replica, there will be three men in a moment, you will speak with a reply. Do you have a deal? Well, Peter Oily's a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The elections in Mukachevo showed that the unification of the criminal world and the law - enforcement system had been completed. There was almost a beat-up journalist, and the police ran away. On my request to be around, the police just ran away, and she stayed with the bandits one by one. Proved by the head of the VCD, the area where all the polling stations are destroyed. At 3 p.m. the UT-1 channel was transmitted, and the telegram arrived at 3:30 p.m. Bandits blocked ballots from the premises to the territorial commission. It was only after our intervention that the militia unlocked the supply of parcels. The courts absolutely did not respond to the mass bribery of the electorate. In the court there were witnesses who showed that the heads of the service, members of the individual party, had been bribed. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the conclusion is that we need to create a commission of inquiry into the work of the law enforcement system in Zakarpat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u25	Thank you. Yes, the word is Suškevitch Valerius. Turn on the microphone. Victor Yushchenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u26	National Deputy Suškević. The deputy faction of the political parties "Industries and Entrepreneurs" and "Urgent Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to one thing that I think is completely incomprehensible in the work of Parliament. We've all been chosen during the election campaign, we've promised, and now in the media, we give due weight to social problems. And that's right, and that's necessary, because that's what our people are most concerned about. But what's going on in the hall. In the hall, unfortunately, it's quite different. There is a very sad, antisocial tradition in the hall. Dear colleagues, practically always social issues involving veterans, disabled persons, pensioners, are planned in order at the end of the day. And virtually either there is no time left, or a few, only a few drafts are considered in the agenda. And to avoid being loud, I'm living examples, very accentuated examples. There is a pernicious bill of colleague Noshchenka to amend the Law on the Status of Veterans and guarantee social protection. The bill was prepared and submitted by the National MP on January 9th, Victory Day, to regulate and improve the payment of annual support to the disabled. What was done? After considering the bill three times, it was planned three times for consideration: they tried to get there by 9 May. But in the plenary session he was always the last one, and the turn didn't come to him. Only May 20, or after Victory Day, was he considered in the first reading and a month later received in the second. So far after May 9th. And such a late gift was made by the Supreme Council for our war veterans. Another very vivid and sad example. The Feldman People's Deputy Bill, which refers to children with disabilities. This bill regulated and improved the order of aid to children with disabilities. This bill was prepared last November. After considering the profile committee, he waited more than two and a half months for his appointment to be considered in plenary. In doing so, his consideration was scheduled to take place three times on March 18 at the end of the day, April 2, and May 13 at the end of the day. By the way, on Tuesday, May 13, he was scheduled to consider: hunting, hunting, and animal protection. Dear colleagues, children with disabilities were considered in the end. And only May 20th before the International Day of Child Protection was considered. You know, I'm very good at animal life and hunting, but the question of social priorities in the work of the Supreme Council is probably a very different matter. And today, with all the importance of these bills that relate to other issues, the issue of social priorities should be in our room. By the way, we're going to be looking at social issues today after the drafts on the circulation of alcoholic beverages and imported seasoned tea. And only then will we be looking at social bills. I'm paying attention to that. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that the faction of entrepreneurs insist that social issues be planned at the beginning. Because they're the ones who care about our voters. And social priorities should be in order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u27	Thank you. Victor Andryovich Yushchenko, head of the "Our Ukraine" faction. He will be followed by Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u28	Dear colleagues. As a result of the inconsistent, in my opinion, unprofessional, and sometimes just criminal policies that have been in place in recent years in the field of agricultural production, as well as climate conditions, Ukraine has lost control over the formation of the grain market and the agricultural market. What the country is in today's price chaos was said by several of my colleagues. Panic moods, population, and power are growing. On the other hand, agricultural producers are rejected in terms of their development, you could say, for three or four years. It's been threatened by the timely, complete, comprehensive implementation of the 2003-2004 solstice. And there's nothing to hide, in fact, that we're facing a real threat of destabilizing the country's food security. I listened to my colleagues who spoke to me and asked myself the same question: "How should Parliament react today to what's going on?" Our position, first of all, dear friends, should be to listen to the government on this issue and to be fully clear in understanding the outcome of the situation in the grain market, in the food market as a whole, and in terms of food security. First. The other one. We urge Parliament to make a special decision, a special decision of its own, which will show how Parliament sees the problem and how it needs to be taken off the message of the day. In our view, we are expected to take precise steps in the next 10 days, then our determination will be correct and necessary. In our view, the main elements of this provision should be foreshadowed by the following steps. First. Dear National Deputies! We must decide to postpone payment by agricultural producers of taxes and congregations, mandatory payments by September 2004. Discharge from farmers, pennies, and fines for unpaid payments, provided that they are subject to financial discipline in the following year. Predicting expenses for an agri-industrial complex that will ensure compliance with the requirements of Ukraine’s laws. Four. Increased expenditure on financial support and intervention, grain operations. Fifth. Predicting expenses to partially offset the cost of insurance payments at mandatory insurance premiums for agricultural crops and interest rates for banks. We are convinced that there are appropriate sources for these things. The "Our Ukraine" faction appeals to the Ukrainian people's deputies to support the initiatives that have been launched. And like a line. Mr. Shufrich, from the five minutes you took into Parliament, I would like to say just one thing. You must say you've lost the election honestly. And don't muddle any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u29	Valerius Pavlovich Pashtowatenko - Head of the Ukrainian People's Democratic Party Dept. Get ready for John Ivy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to ask all the national MPs not to play the APC problem today, not to play the political game. And I want to make specific proposals -- what needs to be done. First of all, cancel the APC support system through commercial banks and switch to direct subsidies, direct funding for agri-industrial workers. And the second. For two months, I have been proposing to vote and support the allocation of funds at the expense of the state budget for the purchase of at least two, two and a half million tons of bread, both for bread and for fodder. Without that, we'll just be gone. These are two specific proposals. They are supported by factions, any suggestions that will be made for the constructive work of Parliament, the government to improve the state of affairs in the APC. The next question I'd like to say is, or let you know, I'm addressing you, and, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you personally, the secret lines, I don't know why the secret lines, they came to us, they're open to me. And the NDP faction is concerned about the attitude of some government authorities to domestic goods in Ukraine. In particular, the situation that took place in the companies of the state-owned stockholder holding companies Dniprovo’s machinery factory Dnipropetrovsk, VAT “Southern plant” and NP “Search”, located in the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. During the first quarter of 2003, only 43 percent of the production in enterprises was made up for the corresponding period last year. And today it's quite simple for a team of VAT workers, South Radio, to be sent on administrative leave without a means of being within a specific working time in the Yellow Waters. Why? Because it's not being implemented by the State Committee in connection with the purchase of its own production at station C-32. I'd like to be considered. And the faction of the Democratic Party cannot and will not stand outside. Regrettably, the government’s appeal to all leaders today has had no effect. I ask for your intervention, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, on your part, from the Supreme Council, and to ensure that national development and our production are given priority. And the next question. Short. I told the conciliatory board. I would like the National Deputies to support the amendment of the law to article 67 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine on the Day of Distinguishing the Weekend. I mean, if it's a holiday on the weekend, the next day is a work day. According to Mikolia Azarov, 150 million dollars a day, 6 weekends a year -- that's almost a billion dollars. And we could also help the APC this year, and we'd be paying the money to build a shelter fund in Chernobyl called the so-called sarcophagus. I'd like to support our proposals, the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u31	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Let's get it over with, I see. Ivan Stepanovich Plush from the Democratic Initiative Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! I think we're getting a little bit out of the mood that we got when we were in the districts. But not to be forgotten, the whole point of democracy is that power is divided into its branches. And each branch of authority foresees both authority and responsibility. So when I hear today that let's have an emergency meeting either at fourteen or fifteen, or maybe it would be better at eight when I hear that it is desirable for all factions to participate in this meeting, and then we will introduce a draft decision of the Supreme Council that can be adopted, of course. And then what? Have you forgotten that the higher legislature - the Supreme Council of Ukraine - should write, adopt and amend existing laws? So the decision can be taken and I don't think it takes a lot of screaming here, it just makes its project, and it's going to be voted out, because who's not going to vote against it today to stabilize prices to provide products and so on? But the power to decide what? That's the end of it. It has no legal power; it has power when it comes to the internal arrangements of any or internal conduct or the conduct of the operations provided for in the Constitution, such as election, appointment and so on. So all of this can be regulated by laws. And that list of laws that Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko has introduced today is venerable, you don't have to look for a meeting, you don't have to blame someone, you have to write draft laws on making changes and additions to any other law, you have to submit them urgently, and you can insist that they be considered in the first order. This is what is included in the powers and functions of the Supreme Council. Valérie Pavlovich just said: Let us make a decree to buy two or two million tons of bread. Who are you going to buy this bread with? We fed all of Europe last year, and by March of this year, we were feeding Europe and falling asleep, and look at the interview of responsible ministers, who are still responsible vice-premiers and prime ministers. We were feeding. Now, who are we going to buy bread with? In fact, Julia Volodymyrna said, there is no market in the world of deficits. There's no deficits, there's all there is to it, there's all there is to it, there's all that's to it, there's all that's to it, there's all that's to it, there's all that's to it, there's all that's to it, there's all that's to it, there's all that's to it. And today you're going to be sold at a world price, not 380 dollars, like last year's harvest. So the decision can be made, but who will buy it, and for what? I'm about to finish, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's why I'm asking. We can make one determination to let each one handle his or her own business. We have a majority that has formed a government and a government that is more responsible than ever before. We have a piece of work going on between the President, the majority of the Supreme Council and the government, so I think it's time for them to look into what they've been working on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! I see, now, now. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to pay attention to what we've agreed on and in accordance with your suggestions as to what we're going to do. Regarding the purchase of grain. I would like to draw the attention of the national deputies to the fact that we are obliged to read the documents that we accept. In the Budget Resolution, we have given the appropriate commission to provide funds for the purchase of bread into the state reserve. The other one. Regarding the problems facing the village. One minute, about the problems. In accordance with the agreed position with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions, all those who wanted to work on Saturday and Sunday on the list of laws and the bills that we need to adopt and that are proposed. So I'd like to say to Ivan Stepanovich: this isn't Victor Andryovich Yushchenka's offer of a working group in which both Ivan Fedorovich Tomic and those who wanted to work worked actively. That is why there is such an offer. This list of laws is defined. And according to the agrarians, that's exactly what we need to do. So I'm proposing at 2:30 a.m. to the heads of MPs and factions, the respective boards of directors, please also meet at the conference. We'll invite the government. And let's talk about what other decisions we have to make in the coming days. And tomorrow, as we agreed, at ten o'clock, we'll hear about this, because that's what the mood is, information from the government. And then we're going to look at those bills that are defined. Is there no objection? Next. Dear colleagues, regarding the elections in Mukachev and the accusations that were made here on the one hand and on the other. I'm asking Anatolia Sergiowievich, the committee's subject is to study and understand, and then to inform the leaders of the MP groups and factions. Regarding the proposal made by our colleague, Suskević, for the consideration of draft laws. So I would like to ask the honourable deputies, and I would also like to inform you that, this week, we have decided, before the Conciliation Council, to consider the insistence of the committees on 150 bills plus tens of two more bills proposed at the Conciliation Council. Let's propose that we schedule the session with certainty. Then we won't have these questions. Here's all that's offered. I'm asking you to give me an assignment: of all the questions I've been asked to prepare, which today have been violated by the MPs in statements, reports and information. The replica. Assadchev, please. Then Yavorowski. I see: then Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u34	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I just want to read you some figures that might interest you. They are related to the situation in Sudólsk by hepatitis. In 2001, in the budget, and then in the government's decision, the funds were earmarked, and I'm going to read: "The water and sewage network of Sukodlsk is 1 million 400." In 2002, the budget, and then the government’s decision, also provided funds of 860,000, water and sanitation networks in the city of Suchodlska. Moreover, in 2002, by decree 280, which was called the "Programme of Priority Measures to Improve Water Supply for the Luhansk Region Population Area", these objects were defined as the first priority. The chief executive at this cost. Costs were funded, which means that there was a district government of Luhansk. In this regard, I ask very much, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to have the Court of Auditors verify the use of these funds, because this is not an accident, but it is simply a lack of hospitality, the irresponsibility of the relevant officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u35	Vladimir Yaavorowski, then Timoshenko, then Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u36	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Viktor Yushchenka's Block. Dear creators of Ukrainian laws, I am addressing you with a completely depoliticized proposal, purely lifelike. That's the point. I am convinced that many of our constituents and we, when we read in Vladimir Gulk's interview with the Young Ukraine, were simply impressed by the tragic fate of this man, who was in great trouble, he was struck by a stroke. He lives in the village of Shabo on a holiday. I am convinced that we must help this man with one day’s wages to save his life. You're going to ask me, why is it this one of our fellow countrymen that I'm telling you and calling him? Because the thing is, he's Medvedchuk's older brother. We should be grateful to Gulkov for feeding us, in fact, and he taught us the head of the Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Timoshenko, then Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u38	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our faction thank you for your appointment to the 2.30 p.m. Government and Parliament meeting on food issues. And I'd like to make a statement about the Mukachevo election. This is an absolute provocation of the SDPU party's statement that we and SDPU and I supported some of the same candidates. [[Applause]] Both the Party's central leadership and the faction decided a month ago to support Mayor Mukachevo Petovka, the candidate supported by Our Ukraine. And I want us to take that question down, and we're going to take it down to the grass-roots party organizations, where in the U.S.A. at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u39	Please, Joseph Winsky of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u40	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, you haven't made a very clear statement about the position we're about to take, obviously. I'm not sure there's gonna be a meeting. And I think that we need to put the issue into the agenda in connection with the acute situation of food prices that tomorrow at 10 a.m. will be heard by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the information will be delivered by Prime Minister Yanukovic, who will clearly express the government's position on the situation, and he will say that specifically to the government which is using the measures to bring the prices back to the situation that was in early January. I would like you to formulate our position so that it is clearly formulated, not by government at all, and the Prime Minister as a senior official should be here in the Supreme Council. And if it's a government, it's a government in its entirety. Please, if so, let it be in full storage. But there will be no Deputy Secretary of State to tell the fish mare to sleep. The situation is extremely complex and serious, so I would like you to make a clear statement, and we should vote here that tomorrow at 10 a.m., the Cabinet of Ministers will be informed by Prime Minister Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u41	Dear colleague! Dear colleagues! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, those appointed by Parliament or who consent to their appointment are heard when the Supreme Council decides without a vote. So we don't have a problem voting on this. As soon as the Prime Minister in connection with the Supreme Council, Ivan Ivanovich, informed that today at 2.30 p.m. he will be Prime Minister and tomorrow he will be at 10 p.m. It's just that I'm once again asking the agrarian policy committee and the budget committee to clearly define tomorrow's agenda so that we don't go to the rally again. We don't need that. We need decisions. Gregory Omelchenko. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u42	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, for giving me your word. Grigory Omelchenko, Yulia election block Timoshenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Head of the Union of Ukrainian Officers. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a personal request to you from yesterday's Association of Officers of Ukraine to include in the agenda the daily information of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation into the circumstances of the killing of journalists Georgi Gongadze and Igor Alexandrov. Last Tuesday, I was personally like the Head of the Follower's Commission in Piscoon, who told me that the participants in the kidnapping and murder of Georgia Gongadeze were installed. When I asked the Attorney General when he would inform the Supreme Council, General Prosecutor Svetoslav Piscoon said, "If that is necessary." Do you understand what this is about? About some political relevance of the Attorney General's Office. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I request you, on behalf of the Association of Ukrainian Officers, who has accepted your appeal this week, to include in the order of the day information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piskona on the course of the criminal investigation into the murder of George Gongadze and Igor Alexandrov. Please, Your Honor, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u43	I ask you, Moses Volodymyr Romanovich, it is a matter of studying and making suggestions. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, with the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u44	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I asked the procedure to proceed with the following. You said there'd be information from the government tomorrow. And I'm asking, and this is exactly what it was about, to invite the head of the Customs Committee, the Ukrainian Security Service, who are not part of the government to report to us, but how much has been declared, and what commercial structures have taken the grain abroad, which they bought in Ukraine for 250 dollars per tonne. And now we're going to set aside state funds so that thousands of dollars, so they have the same grain that they didn't export outside Ukraine, we're going to buy. Nevertheless, the Security Service will answer how they regulated these economic security issues, how they tracked us down, warned us. And these are questions that we should also consider. Because we have the next one, Vladimir Mikhailovich, why I insist. Now, you know, meat is bought in a living vase of 80-90 copies. They destroy large cattle, and practically from January there will be a sharp rise in prices for meat, milk, and many other problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u45	The offer is understood. Thank you. I would like to say again, honourable national MPs, we repeat ourselves. Today, at 2:30 p.m., there will be members of the government who are responsible. We also invited everyone you named. And tomorrow we invite everyone. I don't think we need to discuss this twice. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that we've been discussing various, distinguished colleagues for an hour and an hour and a half. An hour and a half. So at 12 o'clock, let's not take breaks. The draft Act on Shareholder Associations has been announced for consideration. The rapporteurs are Victor Lavrentiovich Musiak, as well as a member of the State Commission on Stock Market Securities Biruk Sergey Alexiyovich. I ask very briefly and briefly, five minutes to present the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u46	Dear National Deputies! On September 19, 1991, the Law on Household Associations was passed, and it has been in force for 12 years. All this time, all the shareholders that were created acted in accordance with this law. And there in this Act on Economic Associations to regulate the activities of shareholders and closed and open companies, there are a number of dozens of articles. But time goes, the mechanisms are not working enough, everyone understands — and members of stock companies, shareholders’ leaders, who need to change the way they approach regulation and corporate relationships, and the activities of different people who have interest around stock companies, interest in their activities, and acquisition of shares. So from the new realities, from the fact that after the adoption of the Civil Code, which will be introduced on January 1st of the following year, as well as the Master Code, you will be required to adopt a new separate Act on Shareholder Associations. The main objectives and tasks of the bill. The Act on Shareholders is aimed at a comprehensive settlement of relations with regard to the creation, activity and cessation of shareholder associations, their legal status. The aim of this project is to properly regulate the activities of more than 35,000 shareholders currently operating in Ukraine. Among other things, shareholders and shareholders account for more than 17 million. Citizens and about 70 percent of all products produced, gross domestic product, are directly the result of the activities of stock companies. Their contribution to Ukraine’s economy is extremely strong. The adoption of this bill, in my opinion, will help me to avoid the painful and widespread problems of ensuring shareholders' rights, such as the lack of shareholders' participation in important decisions, such as decisions to alienate society's assets, the implementation of society's assets at underpriced prices, the lack of the ability of small shareholders to influence the order of the day's general meetings, the unguaranteed representation in the supervisory board of shareholders who do not own the controlling stock package, the lack of transparency of shareholders' associations even for their shareholders, etc. This is balanced, in my opinion, the interests of both small and strategic investors, because too much protection of the rights of small shareholders can lead to paralysis in the work of shareholders. So there's a lot of flexibility there, in my opinion, mechanisms and account for the interests of small shareholders, and usually ensuring the normal activity of shareholders, and the interests of strategic shareholders. The basic positions of the law, I think you could call them. It's about upholding the rights of shareholders and how these rights are implemented. In particular, the right to acquire shares of additional releases, the right of the shareholder to demand a ransom with the appropriate shareholding company in the event that the shareholder voted in the general meeting against making certain important decisions. Detailedly settled issues regarding dividend payments. The exclusive competence of the general congregations is expanded, and the order of their calling and holding is carefully regulated, allowing shareholders more actively than they are now to influence the making of the most important decisions regarding the activities of society. The arrangements for the formation and activities of the Governing Body of the Society’s executive body are carefully regulated, and requirements are laid down for members of those bodies, such as the requirement to act conscientiously and wisely in the interests of the Society. The introduction of a cumulative vote ensures that shareholders are represented in a minority of the Society’s Supervisory Board. A separate arrangement is established for the association of significant agreements and agreements involving the interests of major shareholders and officials of the association. Shareholders are expected to have access to information about the activities of the shareholders. This adoption of this law, in my view, will improve the investment climate in Ukraine, contribute to a more efficient investment policy, and increase the attractiveness of the investment of people's savings in stocks. It will also improve corporate governance, contribute to improving the efficiency of government administrations of corporate rights. Which is also important. Because you know these rights are now neglected and, in fact, all the corporate rights that the state now owns to manage them in a neglected state. I'm probably going to end this, because time is up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u47	Thank you, Victor Lavrentyovich. Is there a question for your colleague? Please sign up, five minutes. So on the board, please give me your names. Olga Hinzburg, please, the Communist faction, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u48	Dear Victor Lavrentiovich. Communist faction, 161st constituency, Hinzburg. That's my question. That's how I studied your bill, and that's what I've come up with. You write here that the issue of the distribution of property between shareholders left after meeting the creditors' requirements is settled in general congregations. Since the election of the liquidation commission, it has been delegated to the Supervisory Board and to the authorities of the Society. I have a question for you. Please tell me, if the equity company before this had a state share of property or shares and there was this share of property under the Ministry or Holdingin, does the non-payment of wages in such cases fall under the responsibility of the public authorities or does it not lie down, or does it remain solely on this liquidation commission? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u49	The fact is that ownership in a shareholding company belongs to that shareholder society regardless of which share belongs to the State. And so, of course, here, when it comes to equity ownership entities, when, let's say, the liquidation of society takes place, it doesn't matter who owns the shares. And when it comes to workers, workers, for example, shareholding societies in liquidation, where their rights are necessarily taken into account, they are the first priority to ensure these rights: paying wages, there, and so on, and so on, and so on, all about workers' rights is going first. So in this case, it doesn't matter who owns the shares. It means that the Supervisory Board will be represented, of course, if, let's say, 25 percent belongs to the state, then the state will be represented, and they have, of course, a proper way to make sure that workers pay their wages, all the debts that remain in liquidation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u50	Yes, Sergey Matvienkov. The European Choice Group of Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u51	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Please tell the distinguished rapporteur that, to date, the reallocation in the property market has not been completed as it should have been completed. This bill, its adoption today, will be pushed into a secondary section involving a small owner who is not, or a middle class who is not, and with his means that he does not have, or large corporations that will just now be reminded of what they have not been able to take into account in the first transfer process. This time. Second question. Here's a specific company. 92 per cent belongs to a closed shareholding society, which must be open by law. 8 per cent of them are offshore, 5 of them, which are incomprehensible in what way to deal with them. So that 8 per cent would dictate 92 per cent how to live and bankrupt them and create conditions under which they would just break up that 92 per cent. This law opens for both the first and the second options completely, so to speak, the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u52	Well, I think you mean especially the second option is that if these 8 percent in the offshores have the rights that are supposed to, yes, then they can adequately influence the activities of the same, let's say, a closed shareholding society. Indeed, it is about granting rights to all shareholders. And where they are either in offshore or elsewhere, of course, when it comes to closed stock companies, the company itself has to take care of who's out there, watch where the shareholder is. So in this case, of course, you have to know who is the shareholder and maybe you have to write down the position that these entities that are acquiring and acquiring shares should be exposed to see who is the shareholder and how they can predict and influence the activities of the shareholders. Well, about the closed ones, I just want to say that, in fact, the general concept was that for a while the closed ones should open up shareholder societies. But now, the day before, I proposed a change to the transitional provisions, where I predicted that the closed stockholder societies that would work at the time of the entry into force of this law would remain and function as closed regardless of their size. All others must act accordingly. And the first formula you said, yes, indeed, we have this danger left. And it's going to stay for a long time about the redistribution of the second, third, which at least the redistribution is going to go. I'm just thinking that inside corporate relationships become more transparent, more normal, these mechanisms are more appropriate for shareholders themselves. And in terms of possible, let's say, negative impacts, of course, we have to look at it here, and you, as we know, there are a lot of people in the room who work and work directly in this area, you have a contribution to make that mechanism really effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u53	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u54	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear reporter! You write in article 6, "The company is declared open if its shares are offered for open sale." Then you write the following paragraph: "The open society can place shares through a closed sale." I totally don't get it. Next. You write that the statutory capital of an open stock company should be at least 50,000 euros. So you give the average and small business a turn-around that no one can even register. It's all going to be under a lot of capital. The following question. How do you protect a government share in a shareholding company, how will they pay their profits? Once again, everything is written out on a general basis, and when the budget is formed, we see that they actually don't pay anything to the budget by referring to different statutes. And the last. What do you have as a list of shareholders who have the right to participate in general congregations? I mean, there's a shareholder, he can have a right in the congregations, he can take part, and there's a special list. What is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u55	As for the first question. This is the 6th article. The point is that society can be open or closed. Excuse me, just a second. I've got mine and the Cabinet project on my hands. I took a cabinian. Wait a second. The point is that open society can implement its actions. Of course, it's normal, it's natural in open sales if it's open. And the point is that there's still the possibility of selling in a closed order. It's about those possible shareholders who, beyond the scope of open sales, are taking part in a market, let's say, regime. And the same shareholders, the same employees, let's say businesses, in this sense they don't go into the open sales system. In that sense, it's closed. Not closed at all so that the same future shareholders know who will be the coowner of this association and associate and associate. As for the second one. Where you're talking about fifty thousand euros, but that's not in my project. In my project, the statutory capital should be ten thousand euros, no more than ten, yes, yes. The point is, in Europe, we're trying to live by European standards, but we're still a long way from that. There's at least 25,000 euros to be minimum statutory, we're looking at at at least 10,000 euros in this case. This is exactly after, since January 1, 2003, under the applicable law on economic societies, the minimum statutory fund size is 1250 minimum wages, which is equal to 231 thousand. $250. Already at Euro 5.6, it's about 41,000 euros. We're talking about ten thousand minimum. So we even suggest we cut it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u56	Thank you, Victor Lavrentiovich. Time's up. Please have a seat. I invite you to a report by a member of the State Commission on Stock Market Securities Sergio Alexiyovich Biryuk. Please. In five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u57	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The bill was completed by a working group, which included representatives of scientific circles, industrialists, and entrepreneurs together. It's not just a document signed by ministries and departments, it's designed. The aim is to resolve issues related to the relationship between shareholders, shareholders, managers, managers and employees. What, for example, is the essence of this bill and the changes made? The current legislation - Mr. Musiak has already said how many shareholders and owners - causes us to have the largest number of infringements in stock companies. 90 percent of the inspections made by the commission — a few thousand checks per year — by shareholders show that rights are being violated in shareholders. And why this is being violated, and we know the courts where these issues arise, because they are not clearly regulated by existing legislation. And really, in 1991, we couldn't settle all the issues that are now being raised. And in the courts now the same different sides, the judges refer to the same articles, and on the other hand, to the other hand. Therefore, the law must have clear regulation. Now a very rich number of norms are regulated by regulations, including the commission. We believe that this should be, as in the world, regulated, primarily by legislation. As far as the essence of the standards is concerned. First of all, it's the dominant right, it's in the law that's working now on. You know, friends, they're just showing off. It says here that really shareholders who have shares, they have the right and the procedure is prescribed to get this dominant right -- to acquire shares first. Secondly, it's the protection of the rights of employees. Questions related to the rights of shareholders, workers, and their protection are raised. This is article 27. About dividends. The law states that dividends are paid at least 10 percent, that dividends are clearly settled, that dividends are paid, that dividends are paid, that dividends cannot be paid. And then it's said that state dividends should be recalculated by July 1. So you can form a budget process. Then, most importantly, these are the relationships between the shareholders. Or there may be different approaches, but we think that in the current legislation of 12 standards that apply to the competence of equity associations, congregations, only 4 are only with shareholders. Anything else can be transferred. So there are different situations in different stock companies. And investors can't understand where and how decisions are made. The bill makes it clear that there are 24 items in the congregations that only they have in the Governing Body are 23 items that are just theirs. And I would like to say that the supervisory board is not defined in its law at all, nor is its right or duty. And they can be as no, as they can be very powerful, exceeding all the rights and legislation that works. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a clear requirement for congregations to be held. Let's say that we have 30 percent of the tens of thousands of statements that are from shareholders that are in conflict, but the dividend policy, let's say, is decided by the congregations now and there's no obligatory payment of dividends, the second, a large amount of complaints about the order of the congregations. Inexplicable legislation leads to very frequent infringements of the rights to know about the material to the congregations, violations of representation rights, violations of the rights to observe the order of the day, and so forth. Besides, I'd like to draw your attention to that. The project foresees the possibility of holding 50 percent of the re-congregation. Because the statute should not be amended, rather than the changes made to the statute governing the activities of the association itself. And one more thing. We believe that we need to protect not only shareholders but also the executive body. Hence, an article related to an executive body that provides for his protection. In addition, the articles envisaged relate to the acquisition of a large shareholding package to warn all shareholders and to the offer of their ransom, including questions related to the ransom of mandatory shareholders, stockholder congregations, such as associations, and significant agreements. And I'd like to ask you, and I understand that the situation that's involved is that it's a lot of questions, it's an attitude, it's an honorable national MP, it's a request to show political wisdom, it's farsightedness and to support the bill, because there's actually a situation where the boundaries in the village aren't very good, sometimes there's a conflict between neighbors. And sometimes there are.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u58	Yes, thank you, thank you. Let's do without the lyric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u60	Please ask questions. One minute, one minute. People's deputies have a question for you. On board, please list your names. Yes, Valentina Seminouk, please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u61	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Tell me, please, have you looked at the scientific and expert conclusion of our department, and what did you conclude about those observations, because they are very important about showing up for the meetings, about the people representing the submission of documents before making the relevant decisions? That's the first question. And the second. Tell me, for the sake of compromise, would you not have made contact so that the Musiyaki version, which is a much better document, would have been accepted as a basis and yours would have been properly worked out? Sooner or later, it is necessary to resolve the issue of voting. And the third question. I'd like to be the chairman of the commission. What is the status of the report of the Securities Commission, and if you could report on both the work and the stock market and the commission? It's going to be in the context of making decisions on this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u62	As far as the scientific and scientific department is concerned. We did it with the science department, most of the scientific expertise department's comments can be accepted by the developers of this observation. It's about adopting the bill. Bills are not so different, because we worked with Mr. Musiak two years ago, and three years ago. We had fruitful cooperation. And with regard to the very essence of the bill, the concept agrees with them, especially since we also support the proposal for closed stock companies, as expressed by Mr. Musiak, that there is no need to address the issues that have already arisen. It is not necessary, for example, to force those who are closed to open themselves and those who are created, for this will lead to chaos and some disorder. As for the report, materials are now being prepared for consideration by the Financial and Banking Committee. Then there will be further work to be done on the report of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u63	Yes, Sergey Matvienkov. Group "European Choice."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u64	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear rapporteur, well, above all, your opinion. The race for privatization has in general led us to some, let us say, the situation that we must come out of today. The race for adoption of such bills also drives us into a situation where you are trying to strengthen the market of securities by law, which will not give or intensify anything. It's another property transfer under a monopoly, under a big holder. So answer my question. For whom is this law: for the Mafia or for the Ukrainian people, for those who should be good at what they did not do in the process, so to speak, for the first stage, or for those who should be protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u65	Well, first of all, there's no race with this law, even though it's defined by the government as prime minister and president. But I wanted on. Next. The bill should be adopted because the number of outstanding issues proposed here is very high. And what we're dealing with right now is the question, we invite you to the commission to take a look at the problems that all shareholders now have. And as for the Mafia, I would like to say that there was no meeting with anyone once in the drafting of these bills. We worked with UCP, we worked with organizations. And I've heard these phrases from some national MPs. But I would like to address you with this question. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that the situation has now arisen. The bill worked on farm societies, but it was designed imperfectly. And in each particular case, the situation has become. But you'll also understand us, the number of complaints, the number of complaints, let's say, the problems that occur in different stock companies, it's huge. And we need to get it out of place. Because if we don't move it out of place, we're not going to have what the stock market is, we're not going to have and, really, we're not going to have an enterprise. Because you know very well when you weren't running a company on Skrnaft when Rossawa was selling hers, Dniešna sold her assets, that's what it was.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u66	Bogdan Kostinuk, please, faction of our Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u67	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostenyuk. Dear reporter, we have the Civil Code, we have the Master Code of Laws. And these codes reflect the position of stockholder societies. As you would say, what is the need to create this special law on equity societies and not to add to, say, the Civil Code so as not to create a new law. Because it is your bill that wrongs the accuracy and inadequacy of the Civil Code, as reflected in the observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u68	Throughout the world, there are laws in both the civilized countries, Germany and the United States, Russia, and other countries that regulate individual stock companies, separately. For, indeed, the civil code in these lands prescribes the activities of commanding societies, the activities of limited liability societies, and not entirely the limited responsibility. Thus, stock companies are in operation in all countries. In Germany the Act on Shares is 120 pages of text, that's a separate position. With regard to the question, indeed, the settlement of the Civil Code is impossible, for only the foundations are regulated, the basis of relations, and the mechanisms of implementation are also in this law, because these are very difficult issues related to property.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u69	Thank you. Please sit down, Sergey Alexiyovich. A member of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment, Georgi Markovich Skudar, is invited to participate in the report. Please, Georgi Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people. First of all, I would like to say that, at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy, the Musiyaki People's MP's Bill was not being considered, since the People's MP stated on the Committee that he was withdrawing his bill and the conflict that was taking place here today, I do not understand to some extent, although it is clear that since the issue was on the agenda and the people's MP had to go to the rostrum and report on his bill. On the committee, he categorically stated that he was withdrawing the law and that the committee had simply not considered it and had not reached a conclusion on the bill. That's the first one. Second. With regard to Government Bill No. 3059-1. That bill was naturally considered on the committee and was discussed in full. There was a very lively discussion. Above all, it is because of the fact that the old economic partnership bill, which was issued or adopted in 1991, was of course exhausted. Therefore, every year the Supreme Council adopted additional amendments, additions that took into account and regulated the economic legal activities of shareholders in our country. However, the bill, which had been considered by the Committee and which had been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, had raised very much concern and concern for the people's deputies of all the 22 Committee members who had attended the meeting. First of all, because the bill practically places a cross on collective property in closed stockholder societies. Moreover, the entire text of the bill tends to refer to the business legal activities of already new shareholders, where there are no shareholder societies of collective ownership to keep them closed. And restricting the 100 owners of stockholder societies where thousands, tens of thousands of people are working today will virtually destroy these stockholder societies. Most importantly, closed equity societies today are protected by this law. Their economic activities are protected by this law. And as soon as we open up these societies, there will be a new unscathed transfer of property in Ukraine. Of course, the collectives will not be able to defend themselves, and this may not only lead to the destruction of the enterprise, to their stagnation, but to the loss of the economy in various, even strategic sectors of our country's development. Therefore, the Committee on Economic Policy unanimously did not support the bill. And you could talk about some shortcomings in individual articles, you could talk about some compromise on one or two articles, or three articles, something to supplement, something to remove, but in general, the law was so trendy that the committee did not support it unanimously, and the vote was: in favour of -0 versus -11, it abstained - 11. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a question? If there is one, write it down. But what I would like to say is that it is written here in information that the committee has considered a bill introduced by the National MP Musiyak and a draft Act on Shareholder Society introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. It says here that two documents have been considered. Please, Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u72	Dear George Markovich! I share the view that the bill is imperfect. But the legislation that exists now and that regulates these processes is even more imperfect. We're not going to accept this bill, let's say. But the problem remains? What's next? We can't leave the situation in the state it's in. What do you think we should do next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u73	I also support your opinion that the old law should be redrafted. And I believe there is an economic policy committee. This committee should assume responsibility, together with the Cabinet of Ministers, for the creation of a normal new law that would clearly define the situation of existing closed stockholder societies. We should not cut off collective property where it exists today, but simply put order in the vote and in the decision-making on dividends. That is, so that everyone can be satisfied and destroy the economic situation when it is just, industry, beginning to develop, it is not necessary to explode this situation today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u74	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction, the Zaporez region. I have such a question, my dear reporter, in fact, today there is a situation in which active legislation does not work. And I can give you a lot of examples, and especially in the same company, the Open Shareholder Society, Tokmak, was recently considered at the National Security and Defence Council. And that was the problem. The manager of this open-ended shareholder company took credit, and took credit illegally, without the consent of the creditors, without the consent of the shareholders. The criminal case is violated, and now the courts are saying, "There's nothing to hold him criminally responsible for." I want to say that these two bills also need to clearly define responsibility, because today we have irresponsibility at every turn. This would like to see the bill to be a red thread that carries criminal responsibility for breaking the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u76	I can't comment, it's not a question, it's just your opinion. That's why I feel the same way. That's what it's got to be. I mean, once again, we have not considered, separate articles have been considered back and some comments can be made on certain issues. But as a whole, we do not consider the bill to be ready, and it actually destroys the existing status quo of closed stockholder societies. The Committee has therefore abstained and does not recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u77	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Your Honor, I agree with the serious remarks you made today to this law. At the same time, I'd like you to propose, and at least today it's been reflected, how does the committee plan to protect the fate of the state? In these bills, neither in either, nor in the other, the fate of the State was not protected. These bills did not protect the role of the Securities Commission or enhance its role. You know, there's already a parallel commission, actually a parallel commission. And now the question is that there should also be representatives of the parallel commission. As your committee looks at it, and do you see the need for cooperation with the Legal Policy Committee, because it's actually a matter of global transformations that have the same meaning as the Civil Code of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u79	Thank you for asking. But I can, this issue has not been considered on the committee. I can express my personal position. I consider once again, if the law is necessary in terms of personal position on this issue. The need for time is that a new law is needed. And I believe that the Committee must take responsibility together with the Securities Commission and with the Government to establish a new regulatory instrument to regulate, under new economic conditions, the legal and economic relations of shareholders of both open and closed societies. Here's my position. That's why she doesn't really break up with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u80	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u81	Georgi Markovich, I support your decision and decision by the committee and your personal opinion on the question that such laws cannot be adopted. We really need to work, taking into account the mistakes that are already in our society today, because there are a lot of references to our Committee on Industrial Policy, and the leaders, and the major shareholders in violating their rights. So I would like you to be the initiator, your committee, the creation of a new law, where you would take these mistakes into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u83	It's a wish, Georgi Markovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u85	Thank you. Time's up, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. We have 10 minutes to discuss. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. There were 17 national deputies. Huh? Well, I'm on record, I can't do anything like that. Yuri Carmazin, get ready for Costinuk. Ten minutes. We've been working with you for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Is this law necessary today, or does it not require law? Ukraine’s new Civil Code, Ukraine’s new master’s code requires us to adopt such a law with you. This stems from the logic of these legislative acts. In addition, let us look at the experience of neighbors, the positive, the negative experience. Russia has been working with this law for five years. Five years. We don't have that kind of law at all. So clearly, this law is necessary. Let's look at the numbers. State corporate rights -- shares, shares, pies in statutory farm funds -- 1529. I'm talking about state corporate rights. That's what statistics say. Now let's see what the laws that are being proposed are today. To me, the view and the first law that was passed was Musiyaki's law and it was better written. In particular, a lot of points have been written out, but before this law, I have a lot of questions as well as government questions. I have even more questions before the government. So if there's a question, and all of a sudden these bills are going to be adopted, I say all of a sudden, because so far both of these bills are extremely raw. They are extremely raw and do not protect national interests; they do not provide for national interests. I was looking, and I was looking, and I was thinking, how can I be the head of an observation council, a man to whom we don't even make demands on Ukrainian citizenship? What kind of State are we? Who could it be? From any state, Mumba Jumba can come and run the country here in Ukraine. Why don't you try going to the same Israel, try going to another country, and they'll let Mumbu-jumbu run it? They won't allow it! There's national dignity. We don't have that in Ukraine. I'd like it to be written in the bill. With regard to the government bill, he commits, when any shareholder receives a large shareholding, under the 62nd article of the law, the bill, to offer the rest of the shareholders 40 percent, to sell him his shares at an average price. Let us see if this is in the interests of Ukrainian citizens today. I'll say no, he's not answering. It's a collapse, a collapse of large-sized enterprises. Let's see "Transitional positions." I'm not talking about that complicated deadline for the entry into force of the law. And you see, over the course of two years, you can rework all the statutes, rework all the shares, and so on. What is the price of all of this? So I think that these laws have to be redesigned, in large numbers, but this law needs to be passed and the ideology needs to be changed a little bit. And there's got to be one State Securities Commission in the state, and its rights need to be anticipated and strengthened in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u87	Bogdan Kostinuk, "Our Ukraine", prepare for Crucius.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u88	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear national deputies, honourable chairman, the need for the adoption of a new Act on Shareholder Associations, is indeed caused by the fact that today the activities of shareholders are said to be governed by the Ukrainian Law on Associations of Households, which was adopted 13 years ago. And that's the main thing. Both the one and the other bills that are proposed to us today deserve attention, and there are no fundamental differences between these bills, I think. But at the same time, I want to point out that both laws have almost the same flaws, because their individual positions do not correspond to the new Civil Code. Obviously, the drafters did not fully manage to take into account the situation of this new Civil Code. Well, for example. In particular, the MP's bill does not correspond to the 152nd article of the Civil Code of Definition regarding the definition of an association, the 159th article of the Civil Code on the formation and withdrawal of the executive body or the distribution of the income of the association, the 98th article of the Civil Code on the number of shareholders needed to make decisions, the 153rd article of the Civil Code on the definition of shareholders, the 157th article on the reduction of the statutory fund, and so on. Life generally requires that you look at the Civil Code, maybe make changes at the same time, especially in the 152nd article, and write it as reflected in the 6th and 7th articles of the project. There are even more observations in the government bill, particularly in the 159th article, more loyally, the provisions of this bill do not correspond to the 159th article, 98th on the number of votes required for alienation, the decision to alienate property; 153rd on the identification of founders and the notation of the statute. [[it's about creating and recalling the executive body]] The 155th opening of a stock subscription, 156th in connection with the increase in statutory capital. There are also comments on other separate articles. But to conclude, what I want to say is that the law as a whole is necessary, but a quality law is needed, a quality law that would avoid problems that are around securing shareholders' rights as a lack of shareholders' participation in making important decisions, such as the implementation of property at underpriced prices, such as the lack of transparency of shareholders' associations, even for shareholders themselves. So there's this proposal: these bills unite and send them back for re-reading, and so that the profiling committee can update and submit us a normal, good, quality bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u89	Thank you. Nicholas Crutz, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u90	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The draft legislation under consideration is of great economic, political and social importance for individual citizens of Ukraine as well as for the State as a whole. For more than ten years, more than 35,000 Ukrainian stockholders have been working under the Associations Act of 1991, which is no longer able to regulate all life - style relationships of shareholders. But there are a lot of important issues in the project put forward by the National MP Musiyak and in the Cabinet of Ministers project that have not been resolved or resolved in a mixed way. The very ideology of the bill aims to strike some balance between small and large investors, forgetting that their goals, goals, and tasks differ. Because stock companies are usually large and medium-sized enterprises that work under strict competition, sometimes having to make temporary, unpopular decisions for strategic development. And the interests of small and large shareholders will never be brought together. In other words, the idea will help not to strengthen the stockholders’ societies but to break them down. This applies to the Supervisory Board, its choices and functions, and the mandatory redemption of shares, article 64. Because that is what a slow - motion action is, as the practice shows, most small shareholders will always vote against all the decisions listed in this article. And then you're going to have to pay the total amount of money back to the companies for the forced redemption of shares at market prices. Many benefits are granted to shareholders with privileged shares, which may cause dissatisfaction with the majority of shareholders who own simple shares. I believe that, at this stage, it is appropriate to refer to the exclusive competence of the general meeting of shareholders, not to the supervisory board, questions such as the cancellation of shares and the introduction of shares into the association charter, the creation of an executive body of society, the selection of heads and members of the executive body for at least five years. It is unthinkable that members of the Supervisory Board are reelected each year. Members of the Supervisory Board are required to choose a term of five years so that the Supervisory Board is able to implement the Society’s forward-looking plans. And such frequent rotations will lead to the formal activity of this body or, more simply, to its inaction. There is no clear definition of who refers to the officials of the association. The members of the Supervisory Board, whose draft law gives virtually primary rights in the administration, refer to officials, or perform their duties on public grounds? There are absolutely no moments in the bill, such as the right of society to seal, corner stamps, firm forms and so on. [[Article 12]] And finally, the actual elimination of large closed stock companies. [[Article 5]] Who and by what criteria has established that they can be a company of up to 100 shareholders? Why not 200, not 300, and so forth? This is clearly followed by the order for the other bits of hair that have been taken. This standard needs to be removed. So this law, like the law of the Cabinet of Ministers, cannot be considered in the first reading. Only after they have been processed and deleted will they be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u91	Please, Puzakov People's Deputy. And we'll risk it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u92	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In my opinion, separate articles of this bill should address the participation of foreign legal and natural persons who wish to join shareholders' rights. In the law, we have to make it clear that the controlling package of shares has to stay on the Ukrainian side, I emphasize, only on the Ukrainian side. By means of the shareholders representing Ukraine, the state should influence and control the activities of such shareholders. Russia, as they say today, has passed such a law, but only after the events that took place in the Kemerov region, where, as you know, one of the companies located in Austria bought out the controlling package of the Kuzba stake in carbon. With it, she received tremendous profits, at the same time she did not put money into the future perspective of the hidden and other work that ensured further work on carbon dioxide. At the invitation of the Russian side, Austrian shareholders in Russia did not show up. And when this object was returned to state property in a unilateral order, they did not even file a lawsuit. Why? For the rest of their lives, they have enough of what they had from the Kuzba carbon dioxide. So, once and for all, when we're dealing with the super-diversity of foreign partners, we're making sure that they almost never invest in our programs that can benefit even in the near future. Give it to them right now and immediately, not tomorrow or the next day, or as they say in the people: "Put it down" and immediately. One more thing. Re-created stock companies are required to pass through the regional commission for the placement of manufacturing enterprises before registering. It should conclude whether or not it is needed by the regional stockholders’ association, and what state or local problems it solves. Or perhaps it is just an association that cares for its interests. Given the very large number of VATes and ZATs, I think we need to inventory these societies by including the Ukrainian company of entrepreneurs and industrialists, which should, in addition to collecting contributions and sending applicants to the presidents, do something for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u93	The word has, literally, one minute to shorten, National Deputy Boyko Volodymyr Semenović. And one minute, the People's Deputy Semenyuk. And we're risking it. With a motive later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I am very simply under this law, and for a long time he has walked in the towers, and, of course, this law is made under someone. Because if you read certain articles that speak, and today are ready to destroy all closed stockholder societies in the State. And we understand very well that today's securities market cannot work until a normal medium gap is created in society, when the middle class can invest its money, the paper that has to make some kind of profit or loss in some place, and it has to be regulated by law. For today, there is a law that we work with and with which we win, by the way, when we say we don't win, we win the courts. It is understood that in a closed stockholder society, which owns a 92 per cent stock package and is suddenly available, it is 32,000 living people, and suddenly it is limited to 100 to make 8 per cent, which is incomprehensiblely purchased by way of offshore, which will dictate at what price this 92 per cent will be depreciated. This is the law, by the way, that you declare war on anyone who still lives in Ukraine. I think the committee has made the right decision, and here is the provocation, because the committee is not bringing it up today. He didn't make the decision. And you take here and how much time we've spent. I think we'll be ready for this law in principle if everything is okay in the country, if we really work for people, not for someone, in two or three years, we'll come back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u95	Thank you. Valentina Petrovna, please, from a place one minute. Turn on the microphone of the Semenyuk People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u96	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the Special Supervisory Commission recently held parliamentary hearings where we made clear that the stock market is not working. Why? Because we're not going to privatize, we're going to divide property between clans. What are the laws that are blocked? The Law on the Administration of State Property Two years accepted in the first reading, he stands my colleague Matthew, we co-author. The law on municipal property -- it's blocked. What legislative documents are produced? Those who benefit, as Matthew, the Mafia, said. So, first of all, who needs this law? Of course, the order in stockholder societies needs to be changed, the status of those who are closed to the open doesn't need to be changed. But let's first adopt laws that benefit the state, that's the first. The other one. The two documents prepared by Musiak should be placed in one but clearly stated under the authority of the State. Because I have to say on the board that there are no congregations for two or three years, no dividends for government property are counted, no budget is available, I'm not talking about paying taxes to local regional district councils and city councils. And that's why today 19 million shareholders, which are, only have statements from protocols and no shares. So we have to ask the question, and I asked by accident when the Securities Commission would report on what was done to make the stock market work, and move towards adopting legislation that was going to protect the state, not the mafia. Thank you. And laws need to be worked out and adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u97	Thank you. The Blackyak National MP, very briefly, for reasons. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask you not to tolerate your negative attitude towards the proposed bill on the need to pass the Act on Shareholders. There is an urgent need to adopt such a law. The largest number of economic violations and crimes occur in stockholder societies. There are outstanding questions about the convening of congregations, the making of decisions, the distribution of dividends, the appointment of officials, the oversight board, the responsibility of administrative and criminal for the violation. So I think it would be right and wise to unify the two bills, to give a protocol commission to the committee of profile to unite the government bill and Musiaki, to throw out all that was wrong about closed societies, and to draft a bill that met the needs and prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u99	All of it. Thank you, dear friends, we're taking a risk. Appropriate comments were made. George Markovich, I would like to draw your attention once again to the committee to discuss all the highlights properly and to vote on Thursday. Let's get to it. We agreed you were here. The draft Law, the draft Law on Inland Waters, the Territorial Sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine, is being reviewed. Project registration number 2605. Reporter: Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Mocik Alexander Fedorovich. Alexander Fedorovich, please, five minutes to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law is designed to regulate the legal status of the inland waters, the territorial sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine. In particular, our country’s rights in the water areas mentioned above. The adoption of the law will contribute to ensuring reliable protection of the Ukrainian state border in marine waters, rivers, lakes and other waterways, ensuring the safety of navigation, trilling, inland waterways and territorial seas, improving the organisation of fishing and environmental protection of inland waters and territorial seas, the implementation of the investment potential of the oil and gas-gasy areas of the continental shelf, the regulation of marine scientific research, including by natural and legal persons of foreign states, the regulation of peaceful passage through the territorial sea and the entry into the sea ports of Ukraine of foreign marine vessels and foreign military ships, the streamlining of other activities in inland waters and territorial seas. The bill is in agreement with all the central authorities of the executive branch of Ukraine, in general with 13 ministries and offices. He was considered at meetings of the relevant committees of the Supreme Council, particularly in foreign matters, national security and defence, transport and communication, science and education, and recommended to the Supreme Council for adoption in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u101	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? I see there is. Please sign up. It's recorded on the scene. Let me explain. Semenyuk. The next Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u102	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I had to report recently to the Constitutional Court the law, more faithfully, the Constitutional Law on Product Allocation Agreements, which clearly raised the issue of selling nadr and refusing Ukraine from judicial immunity. Thanks to the Vienna Convention on the Conservation of Nadr, Landscapes and the Marine Zone, the decision was made positively, and Nadra remained behind Ukraine. By this time, however, Ukraine had not signed this agreement or signed it. Can you please tell me when a contract will be signed? And how does the Ministry work at this convention today to get it signed faster? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u103	Well, as far as sea bass is concerned, if you mean it, this is regulated by the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. Ukraine is a party to this convention. And, of course, we came out of the fact that the nadra sea, or nadra beyond the territorial sea, the continental shelf, can only be developed by Ukraine. And if other natural, legal persons have such a desire, they should receive an appropriate permit from Ukraine. I don't want to talk about this convention right now, but I promise to ask you a question about this convention as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u104	Thank you. Matthew, the next one is Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u105	Matthew, the Communist faction. Is this the proposed draft Law on Inland Waters in the Territorial Sea and Nearby Areas of Ukraine addressing disputed territorial water issues at the island of Zmejina? That's the first question. And the second question. How will this law affect the prospects for geological and geophysical exploration on the continental shelf and the extraction of gas and oil in those territories?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u106	Thank you. As for the first question. There are no shared waters around the Serpent. Snake Island is an integral part of Ukraine’s territory, part of the Ukrainian land. And as an island under international law, it has its territorial sea with a width of 12 nautical miles, which is defined and which is enshrined particularly in the treaty between the Soviet Union and Romania in 1961, and now certain elements are also enshrined in a treaty that was recently signed on the state border regime between Ukraine and Romania in Montenegro on June 17th of this year. With regard to the second question, of course, the legal status of the territorial sea, inland waters, and adjacent areas will contribute to the work of geological intelligence and the development of the periphery when the issue matures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u107	Igor's storm, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u108	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] The honourable report will no doubt allow the adoption of the project to establish the legislative status and legal regime of the inland waters of the territorial sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine to establish the rights of Ukraine. It will also create better conditions for the protection of the state border. But many articles of this draft duplicate the proper position of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. As early as 1999, the Supreme Council adopted this law, which it ratified. And since then, the convention has been applied as part of national legislation. The first question is, "Don't you think it'll create an unwarranted confusion, and this duplication of convention positions will just be useless?" Second question. A third project dedicated to environmental safety, including the protection and conservation of the marine environment, State environmental expertise, environmental control and internal water monitoring. Do you not think that all these issues are regulated and should be regulated by the relevant laws of environmental protection legislation, environmental expertise, and the Water Code? And, in principle, they should not be subject to this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u109	As for the first question. Yes, indeed, Ukraine ratified the 1972 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, thus becoming an integral part of Ukraine’s legislation. But the convention regulates a much broader circle of issues than just the issues that we are currently discussing in the draft Law on Inland Water, the Territorial Sea and the adjacent zone. And some of the issues raised in the convention need clarification. For example, the convention contains the right of each coastal State to set up 12 miles, but the state can set less than 12 miles, which is its right to set 12 miles. So that's exactly what we're defining, and in our law, we're determining that Ukraine is setting up 12 nautical miles. This is true of other chapters of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. In addition, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea is a document, a book of more than 300 pages, and unfortunately, it is not a book that all the departments have to deal with, in particular, maritime issues and questions related to the development of sea bass and so on. This law, when adopted, will be available to every expert.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u110	Thank you, Alexander Fedorovich, please sit down and answer the questions. The co-report invites the first Deputy Head of the Committee in the Foreign Affairs of Gračov Oleg Alexiyovich. Please, Oleg Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u111	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Alexander Fedorovich had already said that the adoption of this law would create the necessary legal basis to establish the status and legal regime of the inland waters, the territorial sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine, particularly the rights of Ukraine in its internal waters, the territorial sea and the adjacent zone, and the order of their implementation. The adoption of the law will also create appropriate conditions for the protection of Ukraine’s state border in the Black Seas and the Azova Seas, in the Ukrainian part of the waters, rivers, lakes, and other waterways. To ensure the safety of shipping and to regulate the movement of vessels and other means in the internal waters and the territorial sea of Ukraine. I would also like to inform you that the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has considered the project. Ukraine has sent us an appropriate letter recommending the adoption of the law as a basis. Our meeting committee has also considered and recommended that the Supreme Council receive the first reading as a basis. I can also say that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, also recommends the adoption of this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u112	Thank you, Oleg Alexiovich. Is there a question for the reporter? I can see that. Please sign up. Lighten up. Andrew School, please. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear reporter, you said the committee offered to support the first reading. But there were no warnings from the committee about the bill. As far as I know, they were. I just want you to be the committee representative here, because we just have to decide on Thursday to vote, and we want to know all the positions of the committee. This, please. And the second. There is also a huge observation by Matsuka, the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council. And it's also just, I think that's not what we should be talking about, and these are the representatives of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u114	Thank you. Indeed, there have been comments from committee members regarding the bill. First of all, most of the draft articles duplicate relevant articles ratified by Ukraine of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. At the same time, it was suggested that the congregation of all those positions in one, as it were, place, in this bill, also has its positive points. As far as other observations are concerned, they are consistent with those concluded by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. That's why I won't stop at them right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u115	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready, Lucenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u116	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, Our Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenka block. Your Honor, from my point of view, this is a very necessary law. It normalizes our waterways and our lanes. I think he'll be accepted with some precision. I have this question for you: With Snake Island, the problem seems to have been solved, and thank God. Our President's leg recently set foot on Snake Island. And after that, I think all the time about what it would be worth to rename this island after a man's leg stepped on this island. But there was a leak in the press that the President had just come off the island, as a private venturer from a nearby neighborhood of the President stepped on it, and it's already about to be mined in the Shelf of Snake Island, while Snake, Oil and Gas. Do you have any information on this subject? Calm my soul.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u117	There is no reliable information on this issue on the committee. So unfortunately, I can't do this to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u118	Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u119	I can't calm down. But I think we'll invite the appropriate information later.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u120	Thank you. Lucenko. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u121	I am interested in such a question. For a long time, Ukraine struggled to recognize its waters as international waters. Whether this document defines this status. If he defines them as being internal, what is estimated by the economic loss of Ukraine of such a decision?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u122	There's no new idea in this law, if you compare it to what it used to be. I reiterate that the relevant articles of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea are being published here. Therefore, any additional material or other expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine does not need to be incurred in implementing this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u123	National Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable report, the first article states that the internal waters of Ukraine and its borders relate to the waters of coves, coves, lips and lemons, seas, and streams that historically belong to Ukraine. Please tell me, how does this now relate to what the Russian Federation has done and does? I'll remind you that the U.S.S.O. of Ukraine, which has not been mentioned today, has made seven notes over the past two years to the government of the Russian Federation on the limitation of Ukraine's rights in the use of our own territorial waters. Maybe I'm already eight, maybe I'm a little behind, but I remember 7. What we're going to do here is historically, unhistorically. And yet, is there any way our big neighbor in the contracts can confirm it? What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u125	If you are referring to the use of water in connection with the fleet’s dislocation, this is stated in the relevant contract. And if this is about the waters of the Azov Sea, here, as you know, is where the negotiations are going. And I think that the adoption of this law might make things easier for the right arrangements.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u126	Bogdan Kostinuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u127	Dear reporter, it is a pleasure to hear that you are trying to speak the good language. That's nice. And here's the question. In fact, it is better not to foresee in the bill the liability for damage to the territorial sea and adjacent territory of Ukraine for foreign military formations, such as the Russian Navy? There's no responsibility for that. Is this a responsibility to be foreseen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u128	Foreknowing responsibility may be necessary. But is there any damage to the presence of this fleet, or the benefit of it is, as it were, an open question. Therefore, the committee suggests that the first reading should be based on appropriate additions or corrections and then considered in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u129	Thank you, Mr. Oleg Alexiovich. Have a seat, please. Let's start the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich is invited to prepare for the discussion. Yuri Anatolyevich, in short, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u130	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the National People, I would like to say that we need this law, despite the fact that it has many provisions of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea ratified by the Supreme Council. Why is it necessary? Because today we ourselves are Ukrainians and officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cannot defend our national interests when they are not behind Parliament when there is no law behind them. They write notes one by one, nobody responds to these notes. In addition, there is open - air pressure and an effort to resolve in the article the first one under the inner waters anything that does not exceed 24 nautical miles — that is, the floodwaters, the coves. and the Lymans, the Havanas, and the raiders, whose shores belong entirely to Ukraine, on a straight line, from the shore to the coast of the city, where one or more passages are formed from the sea side. It's the right approach, it's an approach that fits international law. I don't think it's a big deal, and that we're here in this law, we're going to include standards that are meant to belong exclusively to environmental legislation and they're contained in the Environmental Protection Act or environmental expertise. All of this has to be reinforced here, but the mechanism has to be foreseen. Are there only benefits in this law? No, of course not. There's a lot of negatives. In particular, I would like to predict and mention the question of who needs to be predicted in part four of article 11, "The rules of customs passage across the territorial sea of Ukraine of foreign vessels," as the article is called, foreign nuclear-powered ships, as well as foreign vessels carrying nuclear or other dangerous or toxic substances by their nature. We have declared ourselves a nuclear - free state. No ship carrying nuclear weapons in Ukraine's territorial waters should be Ukraine's territory. The task of the Foreign Service, the Ministry of Defence, is to ensure this requirement of Ukrainian legislation. And that's why I think this position should be strictly reflected here in the law and we don't have, in this case, to adapt to either the United States or the Russian Federation. The law must be solely in the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u131	Bogdan Kostinuk, prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u132	The Ukrainian People's Movement "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. The purpose of this bill is the legislative definition of the status and legal regime of inland waters, the territorial sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine and the protection of the State border and the protection of the environment. And in my opinion, the adoption of this law, its implementation will also allow, in addition, to realize the investment potential of the oil and gas-gasy areas of the territorial sea and its nadr, which will allow for a higher level of state independence from foreign energy carriers. In this regard, it would be appropriate to introduce into the bill the concept of the definition of a shelf or a continental shelf, since there is no such definition. And that might be the definition, for example, of a flattened section of the underwater landscape lying on the shores of the earth and having a geological structure in common with it. By the way, the depths of the shelf are usually 100 to 200 meters. So how can this law be considered without the definition of a shelf, given what was recently said today, was signed a border with Romania, and problems around the island of Snakes? So this is a mandatory condition for determining the shelf. Next. Article 24 of the bill introduces environmental legislation as a standard for the quality of the marine environment. In this regard, it would be appropriate to define the concept and explain it in more detail from cities as well as parts of marine quality standards. The bill sets out basic concepts for environmental management in the field of rational use of inland waters and territorial seas. This is, in particular, state environmental expertise, state environmental control, state economic monitoring, and so on. But these definitions may well be removed, because these rules for the organization of the environmental management system are already laid down in other bills. The bill also requires that foreign military formations, such as the Russian Navy in Sevastopol, be envisaged for damage to the territorial sea and adjacent territory of Ukraine, because instead of creating and developing a profitable tourism area in the region, Ukraine has to tolerate unwanted guests. Whether it's too bad or not, but she, if she doesn't, she might still be. Therefore, responsibility for this damage should be provided for in legislation. But in general, I do believe that the bill can be adopted in the first reading and all of these comments should be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u133	Thank you. Taras Cranville. Get ready for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u134	Dear Mr. Chief, distinguished colleagues! In principle, I have no reason to criticize this bill very harshly, because most of the provisions it contains can be completely approved. But the problem is that we approved those positions with you when we voted in favour of ratifying the relevant international agreements and conventions. And I think it's kind of an approach that says that there's a 600-page convention there, and it's not available to someone there and it's unknown, it's a very serious legal nihilism. The convention is part of Ukraine’s national legislation. And ignorance of the law does not absolve you from the execution of the decisions of this law. So it seems to me that if we assume that this law is going to be passed and it is necessary, we should place a whole series of benchmarks in it and not fill it with those topics that are already the norm of Ukrainian national legislation as a result of the ratification of our respective conventions and treaties. So I just don't see the point of the law being so dilated by the standards that we've adopted a long time ago. If we believe that we need to isolate these standards by a separate special law because the conventions are less accessible, then let us change the approach to national legislation in general and foresee that all the norms envisaged by this convention should be duplicated by the relevant laws of Ukraine. Otherwise, a little bit of an inadequate selection of a special, separate sphere emerges. With regard to this law, I see and see some other weaknesses. One has already been mentioned — the shelf. It seems to me that the very question of the shelf and the furlough under the shelf was to be the central point of this law. Failure to write these points brings problems for us on the economic side that are not solved today. I have examined the law, and it seems to me that by means of this law we too will not solve a number of painful issues of others. It's also a painful question of the Azov Sea, that is, legal norms, maybe they'll fix it, maybe there's some points that can be made by sub-legislatives, by additional agreements. But those norms that will enable me to determine clearly the question of the exploitation of the sea, especially the Kerchny Strait, are not really what I find. That I think it's problematic enough. As far as military bases are concerned. You know, for some reason, the authors of the legislative initiative avoided something that would have written those moments clearly enough. We now have one overseas naval base in Ukraine. Let's imagine that other countries will want to open up their naval bases on very favourable economic conditions. We're going to review the law again. Let us write out whether it is possible or impossible, under what conditions, and under what responsibility. Otherwise, we're actually going around all the pain points and going out on the ones that are already normal. If you can make these changes in mode to second reading, I don't know, I think it's hard enough. It would still be worth preparing a new edition. If we can, let's bring it in. These things need to be standardized, but they need to be standardized, not bypassed, without avoiding painful topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u135	Thank you. National MP Andrew School and we're taking a risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u136	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to express the faction's opinion on this bill. You know, I also want to point out that we need to beat this project and we need to criticize it, but in principle, we need to challenge it hard, although it's also worth stressing the weaknesses that are in this bill. The first is immediately in sight, reading part of article 2, "The Territorial Sea and Part of the Territory of Ukraine". I don't like it when the Ukrainian bill and later in the law contain such formulations. In some cases, the breadth of Ukraine’s territorial sea may be established by international treaties. However, individual cases in Ukrainian laws become a rule. And that's why these individual cases have to be more widely distributed. I realize that they wanted to narrow the bill down and make it easier for someone to understand, but look at its size and for those who can't read it, it won't read much, or for those who are lazy to read international conventions. So it has to be either written down or just removed from this bill because you didn't understand its construction. The other one. Well, there's a lot to say. When it comes to a particular case, we have all cases of infection, immediately, if necessary, they become separate. And the next. A peaceful passage through the territorial sea. Here I have the previous speaker take away this thesis on nuclear warheads on ships and nuclear engines, which, of course, is a real serious threat and it must be included that this is also a threat to Ukraine’s security. And in general, it's a peaceful passage, it can't have any effect on international or, as it were, Russian military bases, as they are in Crimea. You should have written it out more clearly, in particular, any kind of maneuvering or learning from any kind. To stipulate that only in the case of the necessary permits, which are governed by Ukrainian international law, are available. Because this ban doesn't work, outside the classroom. And here I would like to say in general that we now have a tremendous danger of uncontrolled, uncontrollable naval bases in Ukraine, in Ukraine. And in the same way, we can write ten times that we are protecting environmental security and the Black Sea shelf, but we have no influence on the location of a foreign base in Ukraine, and this bill does not give us any reason to believe that we will have such an impact. So I would like to point out that it is a good thing that there are obstacles to the functioning of communication systems, since we remember the tremendous obstacles that Ukrainian communication systems have caused in the Crimea in connection with the conduct of completely unsanctioned military training by the Black Sea Navy. So I would like to point out that these amendments and the deletion of similar interpretations on individual occasions, when you first read this bill, you can accept it, but with the warnings that I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u137	Thank you, Andrey. We're done. No, no, no, we said we were cheating. We've already used 45 minutes. Yuri Petrovich, I can give you one minute and we'll be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster If the bill is to determine the status and legal regime of the inland waters of the territorial sea and the adjacent zone of Ukraine, this is fully defined in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which Ukraine has acceded. And that's why we can agree with the scientific expertise that this part of the law duplicates the convention. On the other hand, there is another task of this law -- protecting the environment. Dearly beloved, forgive us, we have so many laws and regulations that regulate these issues, and, as has been said in the speeches, we are interested not only in the protection of the environment but in the use of the natural resources that are in the marine zone. And this has to be governed by the relevant laws and codes that we have. As far as I am concerned, it is not clear why this law came into existence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u139	Thank you. Let us now consider the draft Law on Inland Waters, the Territorial Sea, and the adjacent area of Ukraine. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Leasing. It's a new edition. Project registration number 2591. Reporter - National Deputy of Ukraine Pisarczuk Peter Ivanovich. 30 minutes to review the committee's proposal. Please, Peter Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u140	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, respected colleagues, since his creation, and in Europe it is the Middle Ages, lysing has become an important financial instrument for economic development, as it essentially complements traditional bank credit. In the United States, lysis is the largest source of external financing, and in the world, 20 percent of the accumulated capital -- that's about $500 billion -- will be used to finance new equipment through lysis. In Ukraine, although the Licking Act, which was amended by Act 39414 in January 1999, was adopted on 16 December 1997, is so beneficial and extremely necessary, especially for small and medium-sized business development, the technical restocking of farm holdings is practically not used as a lysis tool. An analysis of the State’s lysing relationship shows that the lack of real tax incentives makes it less attractive for potential lysing operators in existing legislation. That is why, to date, U.S. lysing companies are able to meet no more than 15 percent of the demand for new equipment. Most of them, and according to independent experts' estimates, because the government doesn't run lysing statistics, there are 163 companies in the state with the word "leasing" that sell goods in the schedule, often make extra pledges, violate the lysing holder's fundamental right to choose technicians and sellers. All of this dictates the need for changes at the legislative level. So the project that you're offered suggests putting the Law of Ukraine on "Pro leasing" in a new edition. The new edition of the Pro lysis Act contains much less restrictions on the terms of the lysing contract, without binding the lysing contract to the depreciation of the lysing object. The term of the contract will be determined by his participant we. The bill provides for the possibility of a sublinguishing contract, defines the mechanisms for carrying out such transactions. The project contains less restrictions on the essential terms of the contract. Unlike the current law, the conditions of insurance and the registration of a lysing item are essential only when it is directly established by legislation or determined by the parties. The lysing agreement provides for registration, if that is the case with legislation. The new is article 11 of the bill, which regulates, in the event of failure to fulfil the terms of the contract, the right of the parties to terminate it in a timely manner, including in bilateral order on one side and the return of the object to the lysing in an undeniable order. More detailed conditions for the return of the lysing object in the event of bankruptcy of the lysingo. The bill provides for standards that prevent the imposition of lysing arrests in relation to the lysing holder’s activity. A new article entitled “Protection of the lysing holder’s rights to lysing”. The protection of his right to lysing is ensured by legislation to protect the rights of the owner. The lysing holder is entitled to demand the removal of violations of his rights, including from the lysingler. The project details the rights and duties of the lysingler and the lysinggologist. Important standards are foreseen, such as the uninterrupted collection of outstanding debts in favor of the lysingler. At the same time, he commits himself to warning the lysing holder of the special properties and weaknesses of a lysing item that can create a danger to human life or health. The legal consequences of improving the lysinguator of the lysing object are regulated. The new 20 - article deals with the issue of liability for damage caused by the use of a lysing item. It is important that the bill facilitates the accelerated updating of the core funds that is the right of the lysing holder to buy the lysing item in advance. I would like to conclude by saying that the bill in question does not require additional expenditure from the budget, and more importantly, it is also aimed at increasing income from it, because lysing activities will contribute to the development of entrepreneurial activities and investment. I would like to thank the members and employees of the apparatus, the Economic Policy Committee, for their assistance in drafting the bill. Thank the National Bank, the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the lysing companies that generally supported the bill. A positive conclusion was reached by the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council. This included a number of additions and comments that will necessarily be taken into account on the second reading when you, your esteemed colleagues, accept the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u141	The question, please, is there an informant? Sign up if you have, please. Put the name of the national MPs on the board. Mikola Noshchenko, faction of a party of industrialists, entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u142	160 constituency. Dear Peter Ivanovich! I'd like to ask you two questions. First of all, how does the bill harmonize with a valid legal field, how can it not take an effective law for today? And we have other fields, like the rules of the Code of Lords and things like that. That's the first question. And the second. Would you please tell me that the bill provides for some way to allocate the lysing operations that are carried out at the expense of state support? You know, this year 96 million, that's a huge amount; last year, 100 million. And the return, 3 percent what's taken? In what way does the bill regulate the relationship of the host subject with regard to the lysing operation and the state, in particular, the budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u143	Thank you. The provisions of the law will require additions or amendments to a number of legislative acts, if adopted, are both the Master Code and the Civil Code, because there is a discrepancy in the definition of the very substance, the name, the object, the lysis. The law will require that if we want lysing to develop as it should develop, certain additions to tax laws will have to be made -- this is both corporate income taxation and value added tax. The simplified removal mechanism is likely to require appropriate additions to the enforcement law if the lysing object is ineffectively used. If we want to give freedom to lysing operations, we probably need to make some changes or exclude financial lysing from the scope of the Financial Services Act and the national regulation of the financial services market. That is, if the law is adopted, there is a second stage that will lead to changes to a whole series of legislative acts. What concerns the second question is that the law provides for the possibility of participating in a state part of the property, if this is not denied by legislation and according to the Cabinet of Ministers, of transferring a share of the state’s property to a leasing operation. But a separate article of the law is not written, that is. And there's no need. Because today, if we take this simplified lysing object return mechanism, I think that's what it's going to be like in a state where the lysing leader uses the lysing object in a bad way to reverse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u144	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear reporter, first of all, I would like to emphasise that the bills that we're preparing, the additions, they have to really simplify. This one, which is proposed, in particular the bill, is the regulator, it regulates more than the previous one. So it's both text and volume, and by number of characters, it's larger than. That is, they do not simplify as much as they regulate. And I'd like to hear from you how this bill will affect these simple entrepreneurs, who are basically the main users of the lysing system? So they're taking cars, equipment, equipment, and sometimes it's causing some abuse. Does this bill regulate it, because I didn't notice when I was studying it, although maybe I missed something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u146	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I want to tell you that the number of signs or volume does not mean that it regulates more. Exactly, if you carefully read the previous law and this one, you will realize that freedom in activities and lysing players and lysing companies and more rights of lysing players and lysing users are protected. So I think, if it's not far from being perfect and you've made a lot of comments, if it's accepted in the first reading, we're going to be discussing from a lot of points or clauses in this bill. But personally, I have no doubt that it's stimulating lysing operations, giving more space to develop such an important financial tool as lysing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u147	National Deputy Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u148	Dear Reporter, the Licking Law is essential and needs to be supported in the first reading, although there are some shortcomings that can be addressed in preparing for the second reading. But at the same time, I’m anxious to ask such a question. On the one hand, we need to give freedom to lysing in Ukraine, and on the other hand, we need to ensure that lysing costs are used effectively as sources of funding. Even so, as you think, to a sufficient extent, this bill solves these two problems. On the one hand, it gives freedom to lysing, and on the other hand, it ensures efficient use of funds, and control, responsibility, sanctions for the use of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u149	I mean, thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. I want to tell you that you know better than I do that any mechanism that tries to regulate or influence or control is a condition of our business or financial or economic culture that leads to some abuse. So it seems to me that these weights are going to have to be taken down to some extent, and they would have to be removed even more, because if we're talking about registration, any logs of load rights and restrictions on immovable property should include the registration of lease contracts. On this point, we'll talk about it and we can write it down or make appropriate changes to existing legislation, and lysis needs freedom, because where it has it, it does wonders. Responsibility is already a category, probably both from parents, and the responsibility in the country is lacking, but we will work to have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u150	Yes, thank you, Peter Ivanovich, sit down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u151	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u152	I invite you to report to the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property, and investment of Vladimir Josephovich Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u153	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment considered at its meeting on 20 May of this year the draft Act amending the Law on Leasing of Ukraine, No. 2591, by the People's Deputy of Ukraine. This draft law is essentially a new version of Ukraine's Leasing Act, based on the experience gained in Ukraine's management of the use of the old law and the practical application and aimed at improving the arrangements for leasing operations. To carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, the bill was worked out by the Ministry of Economy and European Integration together with the State Property Fund. Further, it is a positive conclusion that the adoption of the Act in the new edition will have a positive impact on the development of leasing relations in Ukraine. Improving the legal field for leasing relations will encourage greater use of opportunities to upgrade the core funds of economic operators. They also made a number of provisions to improve the draft law. The Committee on Finance and Banking also reviewed the bill and made a number of comments and proposals. These comments mainly concern the inadequacy of individual articles of the bill or the non-conformity of certain articles of the bill with the Ukrainian Civil Code. However, it should be noted that the draft Law amending the Law on leasing was introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputy MP Pisarczuk before the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code. Therefore, all these differences can be taken into account and taken into account in the drafting of the Second Reading Bill. In general, the Committee on Finance and Banking recommends that the draft law be adopted as a basis for first reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of December last year, believes that, as a result of its first reading, the draft law can be adopted on the basis of the comments and proposals made. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the Law amending the Law on leasing in the first reading, and undertakes to prepare it for second reading, taking into account all the comments made by the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, the Committee on Finance and Banking, those comments made by the Scientific and Expert Office and to be made by the Scientific and Expert Office, and by members of the People's Deputies of Ukraine during the first reading discussion. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u154	Yes, dear colleagues, is there a question? If you have any, please sign in. On the board, please give your names. Maria Marcus, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u155	Maria Marcus, Communist faction. I give the word to Frost Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u156	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u157	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Yosipovich, I have a question. This year, we all see, and this morning, in the Supreme Council, there was only talk about the situation in agriculture. We all know that many farms and farmers of various forms of property have leased equipment and that the situation is so impossible to calculate. Is it possible in the law to provide for this moment, that in the event of a critical, force majeure situation in agriculture, so that every time the Cabinet of Ministers is there, they will consider as long as they submit until they react as they say "the train has already left". That's not what the law says. And whether it's possible in the future.?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u158	You see, I don't think that in this case the State should assume the responsibility of insurance for leases. The fact is that the existence, return, with the equality of property types, public property than a State can guarantee or insure leasing transactions, is exactly the same, in leasing relations, return, in exactly the same situation as any private property that this lease actually uses today. That's the first one. Second. Lease operations are far from any business that can participate in these leasing operations. Although it was said here that this law could have an impact on, so there, the development of entrepreneurship, as well. You see, in order to obtain technology today by leasing, it takes very serious initial capital, initial capital, very seriously, to guarantee the return of leasing or the payment of leasings of all these operations. That's why I don't think a leasing relationship is going to be affected by a case of emergency. Although they can't do anything. Although, in principle, in a society that cares about its development, economic development was, of course, to be envisaged. But we know that today we are more concerned about the profiteering, the return, the satisfaction of the profiteering interests, rather than the economic development of our State. An example of this is that today we pay a few times more than we actually pay for the equipment we lease, including foreign technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u159	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u160	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts of Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Your Honor, I'd like to hear some information from you, if you have it, that's what I'm talking about. Of course, lyzing is a colossal and very progressive form of mutual assistance between subjects and between nations. And I support a nigger who says, "Freezing." I'd even say, "Get your hands off the lysing" and so on. Is that what we have in mind? The leasing flows that Ukraine had during its independence in a democratic country would have to flow either evenly throughout the country, or in areas where there are depressive zones or, on the contrary, nondepressive zones. So these streams should be smartly directed. That information that I own may be inaccurate, that we practically had most of the lysing going under the protectorate of the state, and that was usually distributed only by officials and usually went mainly to the needy: acquaintances, godparents, weddings and so forth, and not to those areas where you would have to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u161	I'd like to make it clear. What period do you have, the last 13 years or the previous? Ah, period of independence. You're absolutely right here. Because the State today has an unplanned impact on economic development, and indeed, on some personal corporate or territorial or family interests, we do have the flow of leasing flows and continue to be distributed quite differently from what the Ukrainian economy would require, that is, that you have rightly said that leasing flows to depressed regions, to channel the leasing flows of agricultural technology to those regions that today suffer from a lack of moisture, water shortages, and labour shortages in rural areas. And we have these regions. They suffer from a shortage of seedland. These are the regions we have, too, when the rural population is overrun. Sadly, though, all of this does not happen and does not move. Well, I'll tell you the second. The economic concepts that are in force in this State today are your good, bright thoughts that do not allow them to be realized.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u162	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich, time is up. Let's move on to the discussion. We've got 10 minutes to talk. Please explain the names of the national deputies enrolled in the presentations and discussions. The word is Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Krutz will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u163	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. The honourable national deputies are certainly the law that is being proposed today, and it is indeed in time. On time, it is because since the adoption of the lysing law in 1997, many legislative acts have changed. And that's why the law needs to be changed. Another question is, do all the changes that are now foreseen need to be made, or are there any observations? I would, of course, agree with all the benefits of this law, ask questions only about comments and define them. I believe that this law is not in line with the Ukrainian Civil Code and is not in line with the Ukrainian Master Code. And that's just terrible, because the definition of lysing that is is absolutely contrary to the definition set out in the Civil Code of Ukraine. There is no definition of a lease, and this is provided by article 808 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, 806. And it clearly states that one party to the lease agreement, one party to the lysingler, is transferring or obliging to the other party -- the lysingging holder -- the use of property belonging to the lysingler on the right of ownership and was acquired without prior agreement and completely as in the text of the law. Next. The lysing population of lysing contracts, including purchases, are absolutely wrong, and in the Code of Lords it is an economic activity aimed at investing its own or its financial resources, which is given under a lysing contract to one party, to the lysing owner, to exclusive use, to the other party, to a fixed term of property owned by or acquired by the lysing employer. Another question. Here is the question of the transfer, particularly the third article, of other articles, of the lysing subject. In line with the rules of the Code of Lords, the lysing object is passed on to the lysing object. Therefore, these questions need to be reconciled. Another is to determine which major funds, which groups, are to expand not only the second and third groups of core funds, because they come out first and fourth, and they also have to be included in the list of objects that are already lysing, but not objects, as recorded in the draft law. And if this law is in line with the Civil Code and the Master's Code, I will vote for it with two hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u164	Yes, the people's deputy Krutz. Mikola Krutz, faction of our Ukraine. Mikhailo Melniczuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u165	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to point out that the issue of updating the legislative framework for the regulation of lysing relationships has been addressed at the right time. The need for a new version of Ukraine's leasing law is mainly due to the fact that the provisions of the law in force do not fully take account of the real state of things in this area. In view of this, the bill deserves support. At the same time, as for me, a number of positions need to be improved, some of them are substantial. And the first thing that needs to be done is to reconcile some of the key features of the project with the existing legislation, as well as the new Civil and Economic Codes, which are effective on 1 January 2004. Otherwise, after the adoption of this law, there will be a typical situation for many other spheres where the same civil law, economic and other relations will be governed differently by different legal acts. In practice, it is well - known both to the owners and to ordinary citizens. First of all, this refers to the definition of the basic concept of lysing for this law. It is different from what is provided in the current lysing legislation and in the new Codes of the Master and Civil. In general, it's a legislative nonsense when the same concept is defined in a number of laws and even different ones. Moreover, the position of the project, article 10, and the new civil code — article 808 — regarding the responsibility of the lysing object to the lysing recipient for failing to do so, the seller, should be harmonized. These acts provide for different approaches to the definition of such responsibility. The second proposal concerns expanding the contents of some of the bill’s provisions. In particular, the position of article 7 of the lysing agreement. It seems to me that the special law, which is the lysing law, regulates this treaty to a much narrower extent than the civil code, article 806. Therefore, the project needs to define as much detail as possible the main points of the lease agreement. In doing so, we will be able to avoid many skirmishing disputes. One more thing to do to prevent conflicts in practice between the lysingler and the lysinggologist is to do. This is to determine directly in the lysing law the general reasons for the return of the lysing object. The project, article 10, does not foresee them. In my opinion, the legislative formulation of this article on what such a return takes place under the terms of the leasing agreement is not sufficient. The general standard basis for the return of a lysing object is to determine the law. Other project positions are needed. But in general, the project can be used as a basis for improving its position toward second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u166	Thank you, too. Melniczuk Mikhailo is missing. Vasil Shpak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u167	Basil Shpak, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, a bill on leasing is really being considered. For five years, the government has been progressively operating a financial lysing mechanism. And today it's really been a while, and it's improved, it's worked out. This bill today has the right positives, but I'd like to take a look at some of its points. First of all, lysing is a mechanism, not a set of legislative acts, it's a mechanism. And that's the definition of the world. And first of all, financial lysis does not provide for a small, medium-sized business, and this mechanism has an effect on the creation of basic funds, the basic means of production. So first, we need to move away from this method. Because today the cost of technology is, let’s say, small business, who today can talk about what a combine or tractor costs a hundred, five hundred thousand dollars. And who's going to give that kind of money today on the terms of this ice cream. That's the first one. The second is about the object of the ice-skating. Also, property cannot be an object; property must be an object of leasing. And we're talking about an object, not a lysing object. This is another observation and this is also a definition of the world today. This is not a new form that we are implementing in Ukraine. We have been in Ukraine for, in fact, five years, and the world has been in operation for more than fifty years and more. That's why we have to get out of this. Today, the lysing holder cannot pass lysing objects on to the sublingual. In general, form is not allowed because there is a calculation of the basic means of production. The giver, he's going to have the basic means of production. How can he transmit the lysingo receiving the retransmission? The first is an opaque calculation scheme. The second is the payment of VAT and so on. It's also a form that can't be. Then there's the registration. Well, I'm the Civil Code that regulates this procedure, and I don't need to put it into a separate definition. Taxation must be taken into account today. Today, we have major tax problems: including sublingual transfer from one recipient to another, the VAT procedure is immediately under way. The basic production costs go once, let's allow for this technique, and two or three times when this object is ineffectively used today, the VAT is paid again. This is not possible today either. He needs to be changed right now. And we have to take new forms. There's work, there's that understanding -- share lysis, fate. Today, as the state invests, the state is investing in the state’s programs for the purchase of technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u168	Yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u169	Wait a minute. And the manufacturer pays 15 percent. This is a very important form of pooling capital, pooling funds. So today I propose to the honourable author of this bill to join us, we have a new bill that has been drafted today by a number of MPs, the Cabinet of Ministers, the National Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and let's work on a new bill. I ask until this bill is put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u170	Thank you. Please, from the government of Musin Ludmila Abdrachmanovna, Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration. Please, the position of the government is very brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u171	Government position. The Ministry of Economics supports this bill, since it is indeed intended to provide more access to the market for lysing services and to provide and upgrade the core funds. At the same time, the Ministry of Economics, at the direction of the Cabinet, made observations and suggestions to this law, such as the refinement and concept of lysing and lysing, and the position regarding the sublingual, rights and duties of the lysing vendors, in fact, and the additions to the lysing contract. And we would certainly like to take these comments and suggestions into account. In general, we consider it appropriate to support and accept the specified draft law as a basis, but on the condition that the proposals are taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u172	Thank you. Consideration of the bill. For reasons, please, Anatoly Frost. No, Your Honor, the bill is closed. Very briefly, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u173	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you. I don't understand. Is that what we have, a super-short procedure? In general, two men acted according to the law, and the matter ended. I'm sorry, it's not possible either.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention once to the fact that this bill has been under consideration for 35 minutes. We agreed before discussing the matter, the committee's proposal was profiled within 30 minutes. If you insist, let us continue to consider this bill. But we have, please, how many more bills to consider today. A black man named Vladimir Kirilovich with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you not to delay the adoption of this law. The process of improvement has no limits, and the time allocated to it is limited. We will still have the opportunity to make proposals in preparation for the second reading. Let's take it in the first reading, because it's very necessary. Leasing is a source of funding, first of all new equipment. The bill needs to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft Law amending the Law on leasing has been completed. [[new editor]] We will make a decision on the day of the vote. Let's move on to the short-term consideration of the bills. A draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange is being announced for consideration. Minister of Justice of Ukraine Mr. Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinović. I'd like you, your honor, to point out that your drafts are always reported by the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u177	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! A short draft of the Law amending article 15 of the Law on Commodity Exchange is called upon to eliminate the differences that are in Ukrainian legislation that affect the security of real rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. Part two of article 15 of the Commodity Exchange Act creates a situation, its conflict with article 54 of the Notariat Act in Ukraine. This part tells us that contracts registered on the stock market are not subject to notarial certification. It should be noted that the organization of the activities of the markets is characterized mainly by economic categories, not legal ones, and this is indicated in the Law on the Commodity Exchange itself, in its first article. And notariat is a system of bodies and officials who are obliged to certify rights, as well as facts that are of legal significance, that is, completely different structures, completely different phenomena. And since immovable property in our country, as an object of civil law relations, has a special status, the mandatory notarial certificate for contracts for the alienation of immovable property has not been established by accident, since the notary as an institution of State guarantee, a system of non-judicial legal protection and protection of the rights and legitimate interests of natural, legal persons has placed its own guarantee of the right to its property. In addition, notariat is a fairly effective way for the State as a self-received institution, a way of controlling the real development of civil and legal relations. And according to the 54th article of the Notaryate Act, notaries, unlike brokers or markets in general, are required to verify the content of their covenants to the requirements of the law and to the actual purposes of the parties. And the damage caused by illegal actions or negligence, the inconsiderate actions of the Notaryus and the Broker Exchange have a very different legal nature and are quite different according to the type of sanctions. Notaries under the Notaryate Act are obliged to pay a full percentage of all damages if they occur because of their activities. In the case of commodity markets or those who work there, a stock exchange provision is applied that does not provide for compensation for damage that is not ineffective, but is intended to impose fines or to deprive the broker of the right to participate in the trade. This is a very different approach, too, which is in these two laws. Thus, if you look at the scope of responsibility, you can say that the responsibility of markets, including possessions, for improper actions and negligence are virtually absent. We also have an adopted Civil Code. And for contracts for the sale or mine of a residential house, if at least one of the parties is a citizen, there is a mandatory notary form. Then the Supreme Court of Ukraine, on the basis of these two norms, interpreted in different ways one situation, general court practice, and also passed a decree on the plenary in which it clarified what the grounds are that they are obliged to accept invalid agreements if they were not notified. And according to paragraph 4 of this decree, failure to comply with a notary form is recognized as invalid contracts that are subject to mandatory material certification in accordance with applicable legislation. In particular, these are contracts for life support, mortgages, purchase-sales contracts, including when they're bought at stock markets to me or when they're donated to a residential house or part of it. Thus, contracts that require a simple written or notary form for the purchase of real - estate items at market markets are required. Moreover, the term “market agreement” reflects, not the form of it, but the place where it was made. And the prescribed bill is aimed at eliminating these two disagreements, which are in two laws. And its acceptance will contribute to strengthening the protection of the rights of legal and natural persons when making contracts for the alienation of immovable property. The adoption of this law will ensure that the State fulfils its functions of ensuring the protection of the rights of owners when making real estate contracts and providing market services. I look forward to your support in voting on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u178	Alexander Volodymyrovich, are we paying twice? Once on the stock market, then the second time on the notary. Or once?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u179	The payment of notarial duties is provided for only in state notarial offices and, as far as the stock exchange is concerned, the stock agreements concluded there are legally provided for a list of payments. Right now, if a citizen bought a real estate on the stock market and didn't give a notary certificate, then under the Notariat Act, and before the Supreme Court Plenary is explained, such an agreement can't protect him from recognizing his property.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u180	I mean, he's gonna pay twice, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u181	If he buys on the market, both payments are likely to have to be paid under the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u183	Today, by the way, the vast majority, I definitely can't name a number, but over two thirds of the contracts are notable without any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u184	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment - Vladimir Josephovich Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u185	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment, at its meeting on 10 June this year, considered the draft law of Ukraine amending article 15 of the “Trade Exchange” Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers on 22 August 2002. We've been looking at him for almost a year. The draft proposal is to delete the provision from Ukraine's Goods Exchange Act that the firm's registered contracts do not come under notarial confirmation. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in its opinion, believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis for first reading, taking further account of the comments and proposals made by the management. The main comment here is that Vladimir Mihajlovich has already made a sound, double taxation, public taxation when banning the exchange transaction and then notary certificates. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law on the amendment of article 15 of the Law on Commodity Exchanges, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on first reading. In that regard, the draft decree was issued. We are in a difficult situation to avoid double taxation, but on second reading we will have to remove this obstacle. The Committee therefore proposes that the first reading be based.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u186	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, do you understand? Is there a need to discuss it? I see. Please. There's someone on the board. We need two to go, two to go. Yuri Carmazin. Vladimir Cherniak will be next. Yuri Anatolyevich, if possible, is very brief because we have many questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u187	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I will do my best briefly, but I want our citizens to understand that in a few minutes now, without, in practice, we want to raise the rates of government duty for notarial certification of the alienation of such objects as apartments, houses, gardens, garages, other immovable property. If children, then twice, if for others, ten times, one stroke. And I would very much like us to talk about this when we adopt a bill. Are we making laws for people or are we just making sure that something is right for each other? If so, let us say that ten times the property situation of those who will, five percent will have to pay the amount of the contract. Are we ready for this? Vladimir Mikhailovich, you asked the right questions today. You said, what about the government's tax, with the state's, I emphasize, the tax that was paid when a deal was made through the stock market? It was absolutely right for the main scientific and expert office to amend the Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs and to exclude sub-paragraph "R" which provided for the payment of duties for the conclusion of market agreements. Well, that's just in case you don't get into bets. And I told you today which and in my opinion, the adoption of this law is caused by purely economic categories, not by what needs to be brought into the Civil Code of Ukraine. That is, the government of Ukraine sees no other output, no improvement in production, and today the increase in efficiency from investment and government, the government of Ukraine sees an exit -- ten times, I emphasize, there was a five - percent stake in the stock market. I'm in favour of better, really, proper protection through notary. Alexander Volodymyrovich, that's what I'm talking about. But let's say people today are willing to pay 10 times as much or not. Today, people are not ready to pay 10 times as much. So I think we need to work on this law in order to protect the people we're meeting in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u188	Yes. Vladimir Cherniak, please. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u189	Dear colleagues. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. The Minister of Justice, reporting, said that the commodity exchange was an economic category. And that's absolutely right. But at the same time, of course, there is a legal side to the matter, because it operates in the appropriate legal field, and market agreements operate in the relevant legal field. And in this case, we have an economic and legal coalition, a coalition on how to form market agreements: whether the stock market itself should be responsible and people have to pay once again, or whether it needs to be confirmed materially once again and paid twice. [[for entering into a stock exchange agreement]] This, indeed, is the nerve of the problem that Vladimir Mikhailovich drew attention to, and drew the attention of Deputy Carmazin, and Deputy Matthew of the Committee. We are well aware that notary confirmations are more reliable. And I also share that view. But then let's, really, let's not do the duplication, let's make the changes, let the Cabinet of Ministers make the changes to its State Customs Ordinance and cancel the payment of duties when they make the exchange agreements. Then it would be logical that notarial offices would take this tribute, and it would be right, and it would be fair. But we can't agree that the old order will be preserved, the market agreements will be paid, and then they will be reconfirmed in a notary way, and people will be paying for it again. So I think the idea here in general is right, we need to ensure that these agreements are protected, we need to be confirmed notably. But once again, we need to improve the quality of the commodity markets, increase their responsibility, cancel the fees for this, and translate the liability and validation of these market agreements into notary offices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u190	Vitaly Shibko, isn't it? Oh, he's refusing to say a word. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Act amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange has been completed. We will make a decision based on the discussion that has just taken place here. Do you have anything? Vladimir Aleksandrovich, please, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u191	Dear, distinguished national MPs. There is only one problem that I think can be completely solved when it comes to how many times and how many people have to pay. This is regulated today by the State Customs Decree, which is today the level of interference of the law, and this can be regulated today by Parliament's decision, the size itself. But most importantly, what I wanted to say is that there is no economic reason here, the only reason that there are no people in Ukraine who will not be protected by property rights, is that as of January 1, the number of registration stages that will be notarized, and the person will acquire ownership rights. We have to take care of people first. If it's already about pay, it's easy to regulate, that's 5 there, that's 5 there, that's 3 or 2 or cancel the Parliament's right at all. But what's important is that we essentially solve the issue of the availability of guarantees for every citizen who passes something on as an inheritance, changes or buys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Yuri Anatolyovich. We are now going to consider the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the protection of State secrets. Deputy Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Vladimir Ilchizi Pristajko. Please, Volodymyr Illihu. The report will be made by a member of the committee, National MP Simonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u193	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The 2663 project proposes to supplement and amend the Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Procedure Code, the Labour Code, the Security Service Laws, information, printed media and information protection in automated systems. The changes are proposed to introduce administrative responsibility for violating state secret legislation and for violating legislation governing the development, manufacture, trade in special technical equipment for the purpose of obtaining legal access to information in automated systems, for violating the procedure for the processing, storage and use of confidential information, which is a property of the State, which is attributed to the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian Security Service authorities under article 359 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the responsibility for the illegal use of special technical means of receiving information. To a large extent, this law, as it were, is of a technical nature, since it provides for changes and additions to a number of laws. The need for these changes, in turn, has already been defined or stemmed from the State Secret Act, which has been recognised by the Ukrainian Security Service as a specially authorized authority in the sphere of state secrecy, and therefore the entire range of operational, regulatory, knowledge and judicial investigations is attributed to the competence of the Ukrainian Security Service. There are, for example, changes, as in article 40, paragraph 2, of the Labour Law. The current edition states that an employee may be released on the initiative of the Administration as a result of his inadequacy to the position or to the job he has occupied as a result of his lack of qualifications, or a state of health that prevents him from continuing his job. Article 26 of the Law on State Secrets states, inter alia, that if a worker’s admission to the State Secret and the inability to transfer a worker to another job is cancelled because of the absence of such leave, or a job that does not require permission, he may be released. Therefore, it is proposed to add such an exemption to Article 40 KZOT. The adoption of the project without additional budgetary costs will enable the removal of gaps in the current state secret legislation, significantly reduce the level of violations of human constitutional rights and freedoms, ensure reliable protection of national information resources, including in automated systems against illegal access. A few words about the proposals of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Of course, it should be specified that when a protocol on administrative misconduct and the establishment of an offender is drawn up, it is not always necessary to bring him to the Security Service. In this connection, paragraph 4 of the eighth article of the second bill is proposed after the words of the “protocol on offences” to be supplemented by the words “in the event that such acts cannot be carried out in the city of the commission of an offence”. We also support the GNEU proposal on the need for a register of organizations that are allowed to access information in automated systems. But this, we think, should be done not by the Ukrainian Security Service, but by the owner of the information on which the current law on the protection of information in automated systems relies on the solution of issues of access to information in automated systems, the identification of users of such information and the establishment of their powers. The GNEU also proposes to the list of authorities that prevent administrative offences in article 6 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, to add to the Ukrainian Security Service. This proposal for second reading needs to be further worked out, since the current edition of article 6 does not list all organs at all, but it has defined this term in general — executive organs to which the Ukrainian Security Service also applies. There were no other comments. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u194	And we thank you, Volodymyr Illihu, please sit down. National MP Simonov of the committee will express the position of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u195	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Vladimir Simonov, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The National Security and Defence Committee, meeting on May 14, this year, reviewed the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the sphere of public secrecy. The bill has been developed by the Ukrainian Security Service with the aim of bringing about specific laws of Ukraine relating to the protection of state secrets, improving the regulation of social and legal relations in the development, manufacture, acquisition and storage of special technical means to remove information from communications channels, other means, non-public information, ensuring the protection of information in automated systems from illegal access, violations of the order of accounting, storage and use of documents and other material media containing confidential information that is State-owned. During the discussion by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee were asked and supported to take into account the comments made in the bill by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on National Security and Defence unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill on the basis of which it was entrusted by the Committee to work on it, taking into account the comments and suggestions made by subjects of the right of legislative initiative, and to bring it to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in a second reading. The implementation of the adopted law does not require additional spending from the State budget of Ukraine. The committee requests that the bill be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u196	Thank you, too, for the clear report. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? On board, please explain the names of the national deputies. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. Get ready, nigger. Yuri Anatolyevich, are you in?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u197	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am always in favour of what is for the interests of the people of Ukraine. In this case, this bill is aimed, let's say, at protecting the interests of the people of Ukraine. Or maybe it's not directed. This depends on how the Security Service conducts itself. If, let us say, the law enforcement is correct, the mechanism that is now being proposed to provide additional, including additional, powers for the Ukrainian Security Service to conduct an investigative investigation into the illegal use of special technical means of obtaining information. Including before the changes to the Information Act, "The Printed Media", "The Protection of Information and the Car." And in the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, where four new articles are being introduced, I think this mechanism can protect Ukrainian citizens' rights from those special technical tools that are being smuggled into Ukraine today, and are being used to remove information from channels in connection and to listen, and businessmen, are being overheard by politicians. I would just like to warn the Ukrainian Security Service against politicization, from what is now, let's say, politicization, as in the Cherkas region, by the management of the Ukrainian Security Service, which instead of taking action on, let's say, those persons who are exporting and selling the forest and smuggling it, have stood up for these people and have taken action against, have taken reprisals against the representatives of the Party of Patrons who have taken action against it. From this rostrum, I strongly protest against such actions. We're going to call all the Security Service co-workers who are speaking as a roof in the woods. And I think it's going to stop. But I do. We have come to the conclusion that the Major of the Security Service accompanied the detained man as a convoy. It's all over the place. That's why I'm saying that it's going to depend on how these laws are going to be used today, either for the benefit of society or against society. In general, I fully agree with the view of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which believes that the Ukrainian Security Service needs to be responsible for keeping a register of organizations that are allowed to access information in automated systems. The information about this register is information about what kind of information they have access to, which they have the right to record, should not be classified and should be made public so that we, citizens of Ukraine, taxpayers, know it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u198	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, it's a matter of interest. Nor did I clearly appreciate the bill. Clearly, the State’s secret must be safeguarded. No one doubts this thesis. But there are two questions. First, what is a state secret. And not to interpret this issue too widely, too much not to cover things up. And the second question. If we have already clearly identified what is a mystery, we need to increase the responsibility for the breach in this area. So, on the one hand, there must be responsibility for excessive secrecy, on the other hand, for breaching the State secret. In fact, the bill is subject to special technical means of decommissioning information and access to communication channels. Indeed, there is a need for order in this matter. And that's exactly what the law is about. But I also want to say that I share the proposal made by Deputy Carmazin, and I also thought about it among other things, as to what should be clearly defined by the register of organizations that have access to information, to classified information. Make it public. I mean, there shouldn't be a secret here. If we want to conceal this, it is very bad and it will harm our people, our society. So let's combine transparency and secrecy. That's exactly the point where transparency is lacking. Finally, with regard to the investigation of the Security Service, the extension of the Security Service's rights in this matter. I have some doubts about this. What will be the control of the Supreme Council in particular over the exercise of this right? There is a danger that public security authorities may become a source of danger. Parliament, on the other hand, needs to keep in mind that this does not happen so that public security authorities do not become a source of danger. And there must be appropriate mechanisms, controls, responsibilities, including the responsibilities of the State Security Service. We ask questions about the responsibility of those who violate these rules. But we should also ask questions about the responsibility of State security authorities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u200	Yes, thank you. Taras Blackwall, please, the faction of our Ukraine. Yes, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u201	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MP. Well, since it's a reduced procedure, two were in favour, so I guess I'll be the first to go. I believe that this law is in principle impossible to accept if it is taken seriously into the standards that are there and in relation to the articles that relate to it. Things are very scary, and they really need to be punished and ensured that such crimes are not committed. But when we suddenly read: administrative wrongdoing, attraction, delivery to the U.S.S.A. for administrative misconduct in connection with a violation of matters of public secrecy. Can you imagine a state secret worth a $170 fine? I shall immediately explain to you what it will be like to deliver, this delivery, for instance, to a journalist of the disagreeable who has a tape recorder.""which kind of resembles that tape recorder Major Melnichenko wrote down, and that sort of thing. So I think that this law, which essentially creates the possibility of completely uncontrollable activity and the maximum terrorization of people, beating them out of the work rhythm that they need to have access in general to legal, normal information. I'm going to walk a little bit. The Ukrainian Labour Code, which proposes to amend that when a person loses access to information, he has to be simply thrown out onto the street, released. There is absolutely a logical other formulation that could be. In such a case, it must be transferred to the position and place of work within the same organization that does not provide for access to classified information. And only in the absence of such vacancies can something else be considered. This law does not provide criteria for the first reference to classified information. Second, there are no criteria under which technical means will be defined as such that they may pose a threat to State secrecy. Now, in principle, that means that the law will get involved in any situation and it will absolutely violate human rights. In the case of legal evidence of real crimes, when a person has no opportunity, time, or confidence in the law enforcement agencies, there’s an S.B.U.U., he records, as he did, for example, Mikola Melnichenko. We'll automatically block it here, too. The responsibility for extending the graphs "secretly" and "not for the press" in this law absolutely not a word about it and in others, I understand, is not going to mention it at all. One more moment, because time is running out. It is widely estimated that this responsibility comes when some government information is involved and removed. Why do we make such a distribution? We predicted that public information, commercial or confidential information of non-state ownership, stock companies, or, say, search agencies there, private security, why don't we want to protect their information by the state? Confidential private information of a particular person. Why are we turning it off? For one reason or another, it is likely that you will not put the pressure of the U.S.S.S.A. on politically involved journalists or politicians, or simply citizens. So I don't think this law can ever be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u202	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u203	Thank you. Andrew School, 121 constituency. I'd also like to confirm, of course, that two were before, and I'll be one of those against, and that's exactly what we fit in. That's what happened, the impression. I want to tell you one thing. After a friendly parliament, he conscientiously voted in order for the Security Service to be able to do whatever it wanted to do in the fight against terrorism, that is, the investigator wrote the arrest and arrest. No court, no need. Only within the limits of action. Come on in. The committees used to be in the fight against drunkenness. You're in jail for 15 years. So it is here. Arrangements are being made, and they are being planted. But that was not enough. We have to fight for keeping a secret. The very intentions are beautiful, but they are fulfilled. Well, then, listen. I want it straight away. Article 212: "Distortion of the order of accounting, storage and use of documents and other material media containing confidential information that is the property of the State." You can imagine it's a state secret. And one of the disgruntled officials took this information and stole it. And you know what he'll do? I'll tell you, a terrible punishment is $36. He'll pay the fine. For stealing state secrets, the media they keep, we're going to get $36. A fine. Of course, I urge all civil servants to immediately steal state information, because they will pay you a lot more for it than the fine that is offered here. That calls for an S.B.I., that's all I'm saying. This is inciting crime to similar adventures. So I'm underlining that. Therefore, the question that this bill is necessary in order to protect the State’s secret does not withstand any criticism. Because it says here that once again, the second time he stole government information, the second time he did it, it's from 5 to 13 non-taxable minimums. So that's 17 times 5, that's a terrible sum, something like 70 grand. It's working. Again. And for the third time, I don't think there'll be any more. However, the illegal purchase and storage of special technical equipment, that is, the tape recorder that was said to be illegally a journalist’s tape recorder, carries between 300 and 500 untaxed minimums! The official who stole the state secret -- he gives 30 bracelets, a journalist who just has this kind of technique -- he's carrying a colossal fine, and I don't think those journalists who are opposition in our country will be able to pay for it and they'll be brought to criminal responsibility. So I call, just as unacceptable to return this bill, because it doesn't bear, it doesn't reflect essentially the question asked, so it doesn't protect the state secret. And the main task is not to protect the state secret, but to punish, in principle, those who are not fit for the regime today, and to use this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u204	Thank you. Vladimir Illich, your closing statement, very briefly. We continue for 15 minutes to complete this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u205	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Andriy Vasilovich! I just wanted to remind you that nothing like you said the Security Service is offering. The point is that the responsibility for the state secret is administrative and criminal. And no one invites you to steal that secret. If it's a secret, it'll answer. Because the assumed responsibility of the Criminal Code will certainly be criminal, not administrative, for which you are responsible. I'm asking you to back me up and keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u206	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of State secrets has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the exchange of thoughts that we had here today. Yes, please, Vladimir Bronnikov. Dear colleagues, you don't mind if we take a quick look. This is a bill that deals with bringing legislation into line with European standards. Is that what I'm saying? Maybe we'll listen briefly to Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Mikola Alexandrovich. Is there a Mikola Alexanderovich? Please, and then let's figure it out. This is where I understand the technical question, yes. Very short, please. Dear colleagues, at the time I suggested that we continue for 15 minutes. Please be supportive. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Honourable deputies, draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy. security" has been developed as part of the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. The project is based on a comparative analysis carried out in accordance with the objects and principles of legal regulation of the relevant acts of European Union legislation. The amendments proposed by the draft are contained in European Union legislation that deals perfectly with Ukrainian legislation on combating the illicit circulation of nuclear and radiation materials. Adoption of the proposed draft law will help improve Ukrainian legislation in the field of nuclear energy and radiation security. The draft law was discussed and supported at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u207	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. I ask the committee to address the head of the committee of Vladimir Kostinovich Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u208	Dear colleagues! This law, in accordance with international rules, specifies the responsibility of the carrier of nuclear materials, its readiness not only in technical terms, but also in document and traffic, it allows this document to be maintained, which excludes the uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear materials, and it ensures that both the sender and the recipient are ready to work with nuclear material. The draft is purely technical and fully meets the requirements of international law. The Committee unanimously supported the law. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u209	Dear colleagues! The bill is not complicated. There was a report about him. Now let's hear what Yuri Anatolyovich will tell us. Please turn on Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin's microphone. Please, I think. From the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u210	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! In fact, the bill is not technical. The bill amends article 34, amends article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. And on a proposal from the government, I'm very pleased that the government has been making this proposal since 2001 -- that's what it's going to be -- the government's plan in 2001 was to put it all in place. Today, 2003, the middle, but now in progress. It is proposed that the supplier performing intermediate functions participate in any contract for the supply of nuclear materials that is required to keep all documents relating to or on behalf of operations carried out by it at least one year after the expiry of the contract. And the requirements for this document. I've given it to me to say that one year to keep such serious documents is nothing. Today, the investigation conducted by the Attorney General’s Office, other investigators, shows that there are very serious problems there, and it takes at least five years to keep these documents. Now criminal authorities will go, we will come, we will put the system in order, and we will find out where these things were going, where those nuclear materials were being shared, and where the money was being spent. And you're offering in one year's time. So it takes at least five years to write it down, first of all, it will be in the interests of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Now regarding article 59. In particular, Part Three is proposed to be edited as follows: The authorities of state regulation and nuclear and radiation security cannot, I stress, refuse to grant permission to transport radioactive wastes from processed nuclear fuel returned to the country of origin for storage or storage. If such a permit has been granted for the primary transport of spent nuclear fuel and transport is carried out in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. So if, according to Ukrainian legislation, transportation is carried out, why are we forcing the Authority to regulate nuclear and radiation security, that it cannot refuse to grant a permit. Why? If something was wrong, if an incompetent person had given it before, if any demands had been made before, they had now been resolved. Then let us, if we allow the Authority to regulate nuclear and radiation safety to assume responsibility, we will not prohibit it. I don't know any other law, any other law that forbids some government authority from interfering when it has to intervene. So here are the points that have to be cleared at the time of adoption in the second reading of this law. I think the first reading should take it, but I have a note of another chapter where imports into ionizing radiation and their export to other countries are allowed only if there is a license. It's probably not just the license that's needed here. Therefore, in the first reading, this law must be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u211	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please. Turn on Black's microphone, "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm in favour of adopting this bill in the first reading. There is an acute, urgent need for this. But three little remarks. First. Parliament does not adopt technical laws. And let's never say that the law is technical. Parliament adopts legal laws, and this law is a legal law that creates a legal field for regulating technical issues of nuclear safety. The other one. The weakest piece of this bill, like all of our bills in general, is control, responsibility, sanctions. I propose in the process of preparing for second reading to write more clearly the mechanisms for controlling the circulation of radioactive materials, controlling their illegal use, sanctions, etc. And the third moment. Indeed, we need to make a decision to ban the transport of nuclear materials in Ukraine. Why are we in trouble? I think there's good reason to do that in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u213	Yuri Petrovich Solomatin, please. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u214	Thank you. Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. My remarks touch on articles 34, which refer to the supplier. It's legally stated here who such a supplier is and that he's doing mediation functions, he's involved in any contract for the supply of nuclear materials, and he's obliged to keep all the documents related to these operations. Well, God is with him, he will keep one year, as indicated here, or several years, as my colleagues have said. And I think it should be not one year, but where the user is. Is it not appropriate to provide for a document or a copy of a document to be in the documentation of the user of the relevant nuclear object so that the entire duration of this object will be kept properly until it is dismantled and used? We know from the example of Chernobyl’s AES, which communities and what problems have been caused by some of the documents that have not been saved or are now outside Ukraine. Therefore, I personally believe that this part of the bill should be written more thoroughly, especially keeping it on the site throughout its operation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u215	Thank you. Andrew Schlell. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u216	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I have no doubt in my mind that it is necessary for Parliament to adopt appropriate, similar bills. And I agree that it's not technical at all, and I'm saying it's not legal, it's a basic bill, it's got to be with us knowing clearly what we're doing in this area. Because I have the most warning, well, in principle, you can go to all the articles, but to article 59. The point here is that the authority of state regulation of nuclear and radiation safety cannot refuse to allow the transfer of radioactive waste to Ukraine. First of all, it doesn't have to. And second of all, why it doesn't have to refuse, because it's committed to the Cabinet of Ministers, it's a certain discrepancy in these positions, or it has to influence the acquisition of such a permit, or we just have to remove it, not record that it has no right to influence the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. I say again, for me, this is a whole set of functions, and that in this situation is unacceptable. The other one. It is about importing sources of ionizing radiation into Ukraine and exporting it to other countries that are allowed on the condition that the licensee has access to such sources. One license can't be enough, it's already been said, there has to be a clear regulation as it happens. Not just here to explain in footnotes what international transport is. We know what international transport is, I think they know international carriers. And here we have to make clear the position of Ukraine. How to import and export. And one license can't be paid because it's licensed, not transportation, but entrepreneurship and other activities. Now, as the transport takes place, it has to be clearly defined and written here. I think you can do that in a second reading. But I think the one who proposed, in particular the Cabinet of Ministers, should speak with a more motivated document. And the second. The removal of radioactive waste from Ukraine in other countries is not allowed unless, according to the National Nuclear and Radiation Safety Authority, these countries lack adequate technical and other security capabilities. How will the authority of state regulate nuclear safety in one country or another determine whether they can preserve it or not? Will the spies leave, or will they rely on any information? In principle, this is not the norm for mocking this bill. I just wish we weren't hiding the main here behind the water. It's not the raw one that we need to print on the second reading, it's the full bill. It is necessary, but with the serious amendments that I have highlighted. WHAT to do with this is simply to set aside. What does it mean to determine whether it can be preserved or not? This is when we talk about transit, and this is what we should have written about. That transit passage is possible only if the recipient country has one or more possibilities for these ionizing radiation loads to be able to be disposed of or maintained. This is not said to be the case, so it seems that Ukraine is investigating and then sending out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-01-m0.u217	Thank you. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. Decision-making in accordance with the Rules will take place on Thursday. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00.
