ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:51]] Registered -346 There are 346 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar schedule for the third session of the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are holding the Day of Government of Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to inform you, dear colleagues, that the Ukrainian delegation that worked at the PARE session came back and we agreed yesterday with Boris Illich that today he would make the information up to 15 minutes. I don't see Boris Illich yet. Maybe we'll do it later if there's no objection. As of February 6, this year, the Supreme Council ruled on the state of affairs, problems, and prospects of depressed regions, cities, and villages of Ukraine. The government appointed the Minister of Economics and European Integration, Valerius Horoshkowski, as the rapporteur for the issue. Valerius Ivanovich Horoshkovsky, as well as the officials responsible for the Cabinet of Ministers, ministries and authorities at the head and with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Vladimirovich Tobacco, are present. The relevant information materials for the Cabinet meeting have been prepared and distributed to you. The Professional Committee, in accordance with its position on Ukrainian Government Day in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, proposes such rules of procedure for the consideration of the matter. The interviewer will be given up to 15 minutes for the report and within an hour for written and oral questions. A representative of the profile committee is offered up to five minutes. After that, 30 minutes of debate will be held within an hour. Organize the work in such a way that we can complete the consideration of this issue by 14 hours and then continue to work on committees, factions, and groups. There is no objection to the proposed Rules. Then we go to work when the Rules are adopted. Minister of Economics and European Integration Valérie Ivanovich Horoshkovsky is invited to address the rostrum. Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Given the limited time, I'm going to start with the state of affairs in the region. The first sign of the current situation is the rise in regional socio-economic disparities and low economic activity. This is related, first, to the inclusion of a market competition mechanism that divides regions into competitive advantages and disadvantages. There's been a variety of adaptations to the region market with different economic structures. Secondly, the regulatory role of the state has greatly weakened, as expressed in reducing public investment in regional development. Cancelling most of the regional, economic and social compensators. The increase in territorial differentiation is evidenced by the generalization of the gross per capita value added. If in 96 years the ratio of the minimum to the maximum value in the regions was 2.7 times, in 2000 it was 4.2 times. [[Zakarpatsk district and city of Kiev]] The minimum area is the Cherniew region, the maximum city is the city of Kiev. This indicator is almost twice as high as that of the countries of the European Union. There's a low level of investment coming from abroad in the region and the imbalance in the involvement of foreign capital in places. Thus, more than a third of them are in the city of Kiev and over 40 percent are in seven areas. This is a testimony to the low investment attractiveness of most regions. Another mark. There's a growing imbalance at the local level. Here, developmental variations range to tens of times. The main problems in depressed areas today are the high level of unemployment among the population, the low level of social infrastructure development, the unsatisfying state of the material base of budgetary institutions. There is also a current problem of income security for local budgets to exercise their own powers. The list of these incomes for the exercise of their powers is insufficient, especially at the level of the village. Of the total number of 353 small cities, 3.4 of the total number of cities in Ukraine, only 22 small cities are developing intensively and have positive production growth rates over the past three years. 60 percent of underdeveloped cities and 33 percent of small cities are depressed. Such cities, especially monofunctional cities, with specializations of mining, coal, chemical industry, energy, and this is every third small place, the most affected by the structural changes that are taking place in the country. There are opportunities for small cities to develop a single development base with limited disparities in the urban base, labour markets, infrastructure underdevelopment, and limited capacity to form financial sources. Most of these cities are located in Donetsk, Lugansk, Lviv, Kyiv, Vinnitsk, and Ternopil. The third sign of the situation is the low rate of small business development. Enterprise development is one of the most powerful sources of employment and income for areas and populations. Low growth rates in small businesses in the regions, 6-7 percent require increased attention from local executives to the effectiveness of regional small enterprise development programmes for 2003-2004. At present, state policies to solve the problems of depressed areas and to stimulate their development are being implemented in six main ways. First. State support for socio-economic development in particular areas or regions. The other one. Special sector programs that provide funds to support depressed areas Third. Support for the socio-economic development of mountain settlements and the social protection of their inhabitants. Four. The annual channelling of centralised capital to address the problems of socio-economic development in the region and the state support of individual territories at the expense of the state budget reserve fund. Fifth. The introduction of a special investment regime aimed at attracting investments to address the socio-economic problems of depressed areas. Six. Budgetary equilibration. One of the most common tools of State support for the development of individual territories is the development of appropriate medium - and long - term programs. Since the mid-1990s, a number of long-term and medium-term socio-economic development programmes have been approved for local government initiatives in the Cabinets of Ministers of Ukraine to address the most pressing problems of individual regions and territories. Currently, the following state programs have been developed and are in place: to combat flooding and flood protection; to provide water for the population; to solve environmental problems; and so on. There is a public employment programme for 2001-2004. Programmes for mountain resorts. Solving the problems of depressive areas contributes to the implementation of state policies to support the socio-economic development of mountain areas in Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act "On the Status of Mountain Settlements in Ukraine" and the relevant government decrees for the period 1995-2002 646 population points with a total population of 784,000 people were granted mountain status. In 2000 and 2002, the amount of government funds allocated to the socio-economic development of mountain settlements and to the social protection of the inhabitants of the mountains amounted to 350 million dollars. As for the special investment regime. During the 1998-2000 years, the legislation introduced a special regime for investment activities in 70 areas of priority development in 9 regions. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Volinsky, Donetsk, Zacarpatsky, Žitomirsky, Luhansk, Chernigiv, Kharkiv, and Sumsk regions. At first, investments totalling $814 million in the United States of America were involved in the introduction of a special investment regime in the area of priority development. Produced by 12.5 billion dollars, created 27.2 thousand jobs, saved about 47,000 jobs. When it comes to regulating equity deposits. Annual government specialized centralized capital investments, which are directed to the region, are also used to solve the problems of depressed areas. Small cities, rural settlements, are among the areas of support. To develop the social infrastructure of rural areas, in 2002, government centralized capital investments amounted to 129.9 million dollars or 26.5 percent of the total. The adoption of the Codex Budget was a major step in improving the situation of depressed territories. Its implementation has enabled a well-founded allocation of financial resources in determining transport volumes between government and local budgets, as well as maximizing the priority targeted budget costs and the optimal proportions of their distribution between budgetary programmes and budget levels. In particular, with a view to taking into account the depressiveness of individual administrative units in the implementation of calculations to the 2003 State Budget, there is a correction of the calculated amounts of local budget revenues that are included in the determination of the amount of inter-budgetary transfers. This allowed for a more objective assessment of the pace of declines in the capacity of administrative and territorial units and ultimately an increase in the leveling of the State budget of local budgets in the amount of 106.6 million dollars. Of course, the government today is critical of the tools available and the mechanism in place to solve the problems of the depressed territories is not in our opinion effective enough. Most approved socio-economic development programmes have not been fully implemented in relation to underfunding, both by the government and by local authorities. In the development of programs, local authorities tend to significantly increase spending, including a large number of local-value items from the State Budget, resulting in the dispersal of funds in these objects. In terms of government investment, their size has decreased considerably in recent years and has not significantly affected the investment capacity of the regions. The efficiency of sectoral programs is low. For example, with the aim of employing liberated workers, 244 million dollars and 1 million dollars were paid in 2002. Among these payments for the creation of new jobs for the provision of fuel workers and pensioners, for household needs, housing and other social costs. This cost created 332 jobs and employed 390 people. This shows the low efficiency of these programs. There are also problems with the effectiveness of special investment programs. The practice shows that the introduction of a special investment regime does not work in the most ecologically affected areas and areas with the lowest level of economic development. Investment comes first and foremost in an area with more developed infrastructure. The main reason is the inaction of the tax benefit instrument for remote areas, the lack of appropriate infrastructure. How do we try to change the situation? At present, the government is developing a number of legal acts aimed at stimulating the economic activity of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has prepared and introduced a draft Ukrainian Law on the approval of a national small city development programme. The programme focuses primarily on the following effect: creating jobs as a basis for restoring economic activity in small cities, increasing the share of local income, completing small city ownership, demarcating state and municipal property, and improving inter-budget relations. Overall, the programme will help create 240-290,000 jobs in small cities by 2010. A number of bills have also been drafted that will help to solve the problems of depressed areas and stimulate their development. Among them is the draft Ukrainian legislation on basic principles for granting subsidies from the National Budget of Ukraine for investment projects, a new edition of Ukraine's laws on local self-government and local government administrations, on the delimitation of state and municipal property and so on. In order to improve the socio-economic situation of the Carpathian region, as areas with special developmental conditions, the current development programme of the Carpathian region is being developed. State policies to support the development of depressive areas should be more systematic and more effective in terms of achieving results, that is, overcoming the depression of territories. To this end, the Government has prepared and approved a draft Law on the Principles for the Promotion of Regional Development, and the draft law has been drafted to regulate the mechanisms of state and regional policy to reduce disparities in socio-economic development in the State's territories. The bill introduces the concept of depressive territory, as well as a number of other basic concepts of promoting regional development, establishes a procedure for identifying depressive areas, and uses the mechanisms of state influence to overcome depression. State stimulus to depressive areas is envisaged to achieve two main objectives: support for low-development regions and structural change regions. The bill formalizes a list of areas where State support can be provided at the same time. This is done for the purpose of concentration of state and local resources where the greatest economic and social impact is possible over a period of time. There is a procedure for the preparation and conclusion of regional development agreements on the basis of partnership, which puts conditions on rights and responsibility, both by the executive authorities and local self-government authorities, at the level of commitment to addressing current and prospective problems in the development of regions. The proposed mechanism will allow the expansion of the list of tools to stimulate regional development. And by the way, in general, in terms of definition of "depressive region", there is no legal definition in Ukraine today of a depressive region of the city, of a village. This concept is usually understood as an area that cannot solve its socio-economic problems or realise its potential and therefore needs active support from the state. This notion of depression is generally accepted in regional politics and in European countries. In conclusion, the adoption and implementation of the draft Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Promotion of Regional Development, as well as the above-mentioned legislative acts, will contribute to gradually overcoming the depression of individual territories, creating conditions for the dynamic socio-economic development of regions and improving the standard of living of the population. I hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will treat the proposed bills impartially, constructively and that they will be prepared for consideration in the session hall as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! Report completed. It takes us an hour, as we agreed, to ask written questions and direct questions from the national deputies. I'm asking you to sign up, Your Honor. Please state the name of the national MPs on the board. Valerius Ivanovich, we will be one in writing, one in the National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u4	I'm with your permission, we grouped the questions because they were called. To the letter, I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u5	Boyko Volodymyr Seminovich. European Choice Group, please. Matvienkov? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u6	Thank you. Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Honorable Rapporteur! I have a question for you. The theory is clear. The theoretical situation is clear. But we had a visiting meeting of the Industrial Policy Committee in the Horn of Curve, and we had visited one of the facilities such as HOCOR. Far away, so to speak, the theoretical system for dealing with issues is clear, but what to do to those people who live around this facility today get 100 bracelets in a neighborhood that live only by processing the land they rent. What to do to the leaders where these people are, so to speak, they're hanging, and they just have to pay their wages, keep their villages, keep their homes, keep, so to speak, these are all objects. How can you do that? General opinion of the Ministry of Economics on this object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u7	In fact, you asked two questions: First, what to do with the object and what to do with people who, of course, because of their being in this situation in one way or another, usually have minimal capacity to survive on this object. First. In my opinion, the HOCOR situation has been running and has been running for a long time. You know, that's the result of a previously built plant that's been built jointly by many countries. And of course, if you've been there, you've seen the degree of theft that exists today. I was there myself several times, and I saw coiled wires, dug electric relays, and so on. But that's not even what this is about right now. Of course, if we're talking about this plant, we have to figure out whether we can build it or not. It is at the expense of the state budget that we are obviously unable to do so today that we need to make a conditional agreement with all the participants, because unfortunately this is not just a matter of Ukraine but an interstate issue, and you know that, that is, we are not in a position to handle this particular subject, but to agree and make a decision. If we build, on what principles, where is the investor willing to invest? I agree with you only in one thing that you can't pull, because the more we pull, the less chance we have to implement something there. As for the people, well, I want you to know that they need a large monument, that they themselves have found this opportunity to cultivate the earth and serve themselves. Because you can see that the money available today from the state budget to support these regions, or depressed regions, is certainly not enough to solve this issue. So this is a general economic issue of the state's own ability. And when the budget is accepted, this room is budgeted, we're all aware because we can't afford enough money to keep people in depressed regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u8	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u9	Democratic Initiatives. What steps have been taken by the government to develop depressive territories? What measures have governments in Western European countries and countries in former social camps taken to develop depressed regions? How is the practice of developing depressed regions in these countries related to Ukrainian practice? Is there a comprehensive government program for the development of depressed regions? And before that was the question of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality: what has the government done to improve the social and cultural environment in the depressed regions of Ukraine? At present, public policies to solve the problems of depressed areas and stimulate their development are being implemented in the main directions, and I counted them as being six. And since 1995, there has been a national programme of action on radiation and social protection for the population of the city of Yellowwater in the Dnipropetrov region. A total of 12.8 million funds were allocated by the State for their implementation. State support for the economic and social development of the Mountain Accountant is being implemented. In order to ensure the implementation of the Government's socio-economic development programme in the Lugansk region, between 1999 and 2010, 1.7 billion dollars were allocated to the coal sector in all directions of the budget. In connection with the closure of the Chernobyl AES, social protection programs have been developed and are in place for its employees and residents. The State budget for 2003 for social protection of workers and pension compensation for persons released in connection with the closure of CHEUS provides funding of 7.4 percent. Various sectoral programs are also a source of assistance to depressed areas, such as state programs to combat flooding, flood protection, water supply, environmental problems, and so forth. One of the basic problems in depressed areas is the problem of employment and its protection from unemployment. The ways of solving this problem are provided by the State's population employment programme 2001-2004. At present, the government is developing a number of legal acts aimed at stimulating the economic activity of Ukraine. Especially. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has prepared and introduced a bill to review the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of a state-wide programme for the development of small cities in Ukraine. As a whole, the programme will contribute to the creation of 290 000 small cities by 2010. jobs in the total population of economic activity, the share of small businesses will be up to 50-55 per cent. One of the stimulus measures in public policy for the development of territories was the introduction of a situational investment regime. The legislation on areas of priority development was designed to overcome depression in areas and cities. Since the introduction of a special investment regime in priority development, investments totalling 814.4 million have been invested. $1.5 billion, produced by $12.5 billion. The bracelet, created by 27,000. jobs and saved about 50,000. Workplaces. Annual government centralized capital investments, which are directed to the region, are also used to solve the problems of depressed territories. With regard to European experience, incentives for regional policy in all countries of the European Union are governed by legislation, usually related to EU action. In some countries, Italy, Germany, and Spain are the foundations of regional policy as enshrined in the Constitution. In some cases, regional policy is fully regulated by legislation. The main problem in such regions is the failure to deal with development issues on its own, so different tools are used to directly assist the EU's components of its actions, and they are reflected in the programming documents governing financial assistance from the Structural Funds. The basic principles for stimulating regional development are the formalization of the criteria for determining depressed areas, the development of programs to overcome their depression, and the concentration of resources to address priority problems. Similar mechanisms to stimulate the development of depressive areas are also in place in SND countries and, in particular, in the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u10	Orest Klimpush, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Dear Valery Ivanovich! I represent the district of Rakhovsky, which is definitely depressed, you've already mentioned. See, at least five of the six programs you called would have to apply to and support the region in one way or another. You also mentioned the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 1998 on State Support for the Development of the Mountain Accountancy. I'd be very grateful if you could give us a specific figure on what the cost is for this year. As far as I know, they're not designed to implement this program. There's no investment coming and going centralized in this mountain region, regardless of article 52, and where we're going, you know, MPs, our proposals, that's the second question. And the third moment, I'd like to ask you whether you can solve the financing of local roads that aren't foreseen by the state-wide program, and you know that the wells are completely destroyed and they're shut out of life. In particular, it is a cave like the Lobster. I'd like to ask you to give me your vision on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u12	I thank you for the questions and I can say that all that concerns the State Budget is our work with you, I mean together, both the Government, and the Supreme Council. So it's absolutely fair to say that it's kind of easy to look at the number that's on one program or another. And as far as your point is concerned. You know, it's all set aside for a capital investment of 400 million dollars, with a special fund and you know how this fund should be formed. 225 million, which according to the 52 articles in the budget, will all be implemented equally, there is no doubt that the law will be implemented, and in this part perhaps any part of the funds will come to the problem that you have identified. As far as the local roads are concerned, you and I have taken part in a meeting of the government that dealt with this issue, and you know that this issue is now at the top of the agenda, and we now have to identify this local state of the road as one that needs additional funding, not at the expense of local budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u13	A letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u14	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. What are some signs that the government determines the depression of the regions that are classified as depressed regions, cities, and villages of Ukraine? Health Committee. What are the reasons for the increase in the number of depressed regions? And a group of Democratic Initiatives. What are the criteria for depressive regions? Is there an existing system of administrative and territorial structures that influences the definition of regions as depressed? Today, there is no legal definition of the "depressive region" in Ukraine. Under this term, they usually mean territory that is characterized by a prolonged economic and social decline. And the levels and living conditions of the population in them are much lower than the averages in the country. The main signs of depression are the decline in production, the increase in unemployment, both hidden and registered. Depressive areas can be referred to as single areas of monofunctional cities, including mining cities, mountain settlements, ecologically affected areas, including areas affected by the Chernobyl disaster, as well as whole regions, primarily with insufficient economic base for development. These are the areas that government programs are aimed at supporting development. With regard to the impact of the administrative system on the depressivity of the territories, it should be noted that depressed areas may exist in any administrative system. Therefore, it is impossible to believe that this is the cause of the very depression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u15	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u16	Dear reporter, in your report, you have repeatedly referred to a mechanism for supporting depressed regions, a mechanism for supporting populated areas, mountain areas. I ask this question: Why didn't you separate the development of depressed rural areas? You have cities and villages, but we know very well that there are more pickles. Villages can still be viewed as inhabited areas of former renegades because there are at least industrial enterprises, legal persons. What about the other villages? Is this a mistake, or will you bring yourself to the next consideration? And the second question. Tell me, who at the state level is responsible for the development of the territory, because today you are in the rostrum, but we know that the social development of the village is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture and the like. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u17	Thank you. It's not a mistake, it's just a lack of time. I'm answering the first question. So I agree that in general there is a need to talk about the villages. As to the second question. You're absolutely right that this function is scattered today. And it's scattered in terms of socio-economic aid to depressed cities. But the general coordinator is the Ministry of Economics. We have a special direction for the development of regions, and this is our function, so today I'm in the rostrum and I'm going to report on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u18	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u19	Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. Does the government consider duality to be presumptive and possible with regard to economic instruments such as special economic zones and priority areas in the context of overcoming the depression of the regions of Ukraine? Six of the 11 special economic zones refer to the classic areas of the external trade type: the port France and the purpose of the foreign trade flows of export, import, transit, namely, the Azov, Carpathian, Kovel, Porto-Franco, Krim and Renni. [[I'm counting the zones.]] SEZ resortopolis "Truskavets" is functionally oriented towards the development of the tourist and recreational complex, Mikolayev predicts the development of shipbuilding, the area of CEZ "Donetsk" predicts the creation of an industrial park. According to the characteristics and mode of activity of SLA Slavotic and Maple, the Krakovets are not free zones, but are actually part of the special investment regime. The purpose of the special investment regime in individual areas is to invest in priority economic activities to address the socio-economic problems of depressive areas, whose economies have suffered substantial structural losses, primarily coal regions, cities with a high level of weight of military and industrial enterprises, as well as regions most affected by technological and environmental disasters. Thus, the objectives of creating special economic zones for special investment in priority areas, their different functional orientation and status do not give any basis for affirming the duality of these regional development instruments. In the case of depressive status, they will take into account the use of a special regime of investment as one of the tools of the State to stimulate the development of depressive areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u20	Yes, Vladimir Yeshchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u21	Chestnut, the Communist faction. Valeriy Ivanovich, we all know the reason for what happened in small cities, is that first of all the collapse of 10 years of the socio-economic development of our state, and that hit small cities first. We have 13 of these cities in Cherkishina. Well, I'd like to ask you a question about a city. This is the city of Chigirin. This is the former capital of our nation. Many officials go there, they come, they promise. In 1998, No. 1314 on measures for the further social development of the city of Chigirina and the national historical and cultural reserve of Chigirin was adopted. And I'll tell you this, frankly, over the past five years, it's practically not happening, and the money that goes in there is not working, it's not working, it's not working, it's not working, it's not working, it's not working, it's living in unemployment and it's in need. So I'm asking you a question, and I'm asking you to help solve these problems in the city of Chigirina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u22	Okay, thank you, I take your observation about not executing programs. You know, these answers are all going to be the same. That is, the budgetary constraints and the ability to distribute them, which we have with you. As far as this is concerned, I will accept and try to do my utmost to promote the development of this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u23	Letter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u24	Democratic Initiatives. "What are the consequences of introducing special economic zones into the development of depressive territories? What is the economic efficiency of special economic zones and is it appropriate to continue to function as a tool for the development of depressed regions?" Between 1999 and 2002, investments totalling almost a billion United States dollars were invested in special areas. Produced 14.6 billion dollars and created new and existing 85,000 jobs. In areas where CEZ is located and where CEZ is located. The average wage among employees is 575 dollars. At the same time, there's still a low impact on the use of a special investment regime as a tool for socio-economic development in depressed areas, so it's still low enough. Investments come objectively, first of all in more developed infrastructure. Yes, in the Donetsk region, the largest amount of investment -- almost 70 percent of the total investment -- is focused primarily on large cities with multi-sector economic structure and infrastructure such as Donetsk, Jenakiyovo, Mariupol, Gorlovka. At the same time, investment in the Amrossievian, Slovenian, and small mining cities of Sloviansk, Shakhtarsk, Constantinenivka is very small, and in the cities of Wuser, Red Lyman, Torres. ‘ The Novgorodite and the Thirst are missing at all. In the Gitomir region, out of the 12 territories, 94 of the investments involved are only in 4 territories. At present, in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where 87 percent of the investments involved are in 3 of the 7 territories, namely, the Great Yalta, Sivas, and Alushta. Of the 9 territories in the Lugansk region, there are no investment proposals in the Krasnodon region. The main reason is the inaction of the tax benefit instrument for these most economically and ecologically affected areas, the lack of the appropriate structure necessary to attract investment, the solution of socio-economic problems in these areas, also requires the application of other mechanisms of State influence on their development.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u25	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u26	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Valery Ivanovich! I'm from depressed areas. In my opinion, what you've become is the current government that's working, the hostages of the situation, and everything is being done by the government to make the depressed areas grow. And we're going to talk about increasing depression, already depressed areas. What I mean. How can we explain when today’s program, such as administrative reform, has not been adopted? And as soon as the post offices are destroyed in the areas, the liaison nodes are destroyed by the district hospitals. So they unite with other areas, they release people, and you know what it is, when, as it is, it's the right of the herd and whether the institution works. So what I'm stressing is that this is done by government agencies, it's not private. So there's a specific job going on in these areas. The number of unemployed is rising, the social situation is deteriorating, the economic situation is deteriorating. So in depressed areas, it's getting more and more. Don't you think we're saying one thing and actually we're doing something completely different? And don't you need a government here, take appropriate measures, and at least don't take action to get the depressed areas out of this state, or even deepen the situation that is already in place today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u27	Thank you. Here are some aspects. Aspect first. This is relative to the whole government. On the contrary, of course, goals can create the best possible conditions for coping with depression in certain areas and regions. And apply some weights to improve the socio-economic lives of the population in these areas. Another aspect. This is the general socio-economic situation in the country. You know it's getting better. Let's say that at least it stabilizes. And I can agree with you, it's like an average hospital temperature, so it's much better somewhere, it's worse. And with regard to depressed territories, perhaps a sense of improvement is not so tangible, and this is a certain problem. But still, of course, this is our common problem with you. As much as we can afford to keep the same hospitals, post offices, if we have the possibility of giving money and getting it, but we're not going to create a beggar organization where our own doctor can't even provide basic medical care. It's not from a good life. If the economic situation improves, in development programs we'll see that we need capital investments, we'll invest them. Today we do not have such an opportunity, it is objective. But still, I want to point out that we are trying to use tools as productive as possible to still reduce the number of these people who have suffered from the depression of the territories and the territories themselves. Thank you. Ukrainian Communist Party Dept. "The government of Ukraine, under the direction of the International Monetary Fund, has largely closed the coal mines, which have a very negative impact on the situation of dozens of thriving mining cities and villages in Soviet times, and are known as Stahanov, Torres, Shakhtarsk and others. As a result, hundreds of thousands of miners and cohabitating workers of depressed cities have lost their jobs and their families have lost all their livelihoods. The social infrastructure of these cities is either stopped or barely alive. Does the Yanukovich government have a clearly balanced program to resuscitate these cities and develop them further? If there is no such program, when will it be implemented?" Well, I'm only going to react to the first thing that the International Monetary Fund doesn't tell us anything, which, of course, works with us on the basis of certain economic programs and we're free to make decisions on how to work with those or other economic programs and scales. Secondly, with regard to the closure of economically unsuspecting mines, this is primarily related to the solution of socio-economic and social problems. In 2001, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the Ukrainian Coal Programme and developed annual priority measures aimed at ensuring the employment of liberated miners and residents of villages and villages, where mines are closed. As part of the implementation of the programme, there is an order for the creation of new jobs for workers who are being released from enterprises that are being eliminated in accordance with the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, according to which, starting this year, the administrations of the coal mining regions have been entitled to receive funds from the State Budget for the creation of new jobs. This will enable jobs to be created from a real situation in the labour market. The Government Budget 2003 Act provides for the targeting of mining regions of 107.4 million. Money from the National Unemployment Social Insurance Fund to create new jobs for coal workers who are released in connection with the closure of mines. Since the beginning of the liquidation, i.e. since the year 96, 258 million people have been targeted. The money was created and 2,922 new jobs were created, and almost 4,000 jobs were created. persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u28	Yes, National Deputy Kalinchuk Vasil, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u29	Thank you. Kalichuk, Odščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Valery Ivanovich, in my opinion, you have provided interesting information about the state and prospects of the depressed regions, cities and villages of Ukraine and the main directions for getting out of this state. But I do have two questions. First: how do you think inter-budget relations affect the promotion of regional policy and the promotion of the economic and social development of cities and villages of depressed and not just depressed regions? And the second. The cradle of our nation, the Ukrainian nation, is the village. It is both the culture and the spirituality of our people. So the lack of social infrastructure in the countryside, like I think, is gasification and water supply, and so on, is holding back investment in agriculture. What is Ukraine’s government planning to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u30	National MP Masenko, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u31	Well, let me put it this way: the first question you ask is one of the written questions of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which is about inter-budget relations at the village, the village, the city of the district type. So I'm going to take this as a common answer, and then I'm going to answer the second question. Prior to the legislative settlement of inter-budget relations at the village, village, district and district levels, with a view to introducing a gradual transition to cross-budgeting at this level, on the sole methodological principles already in the development of local budgets for 2003 and avoiding most of the violations of the financial authority of local self-government of villages, villages and cities of regional importance, the Ministry of Finance has been developed and sent to the Ministry of Finance of the Autonomous Republic of Crime to the Chief Financial Administration of the Recommendation on the development of a procedure for determining the extent of inter-budgetary transport between the district budget and between budgets of the regional, village and village cities. The measures taken will ensure the implementation by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, by the governments of the requirements of Article 42 of the State Budget Act, in 2003, in the formation of the local budgets of cities of regional importance, villages and villages of a particular methodology proposed by the Ministry of Finance for the development of the specified order, examined and conducted appropriate consultations with representatives of local financial bodies with the participation of members of the Committee on Budget. The implementation results are the basis of the draft Law on the settlement of inter-budget relations at the village, village and city levels of regional importance and area, which is now being developed by the Ministry of Finance and will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in July of this year. With regard to your second question about the infrastructure of villages. Let's be realistic when the money goes to the village? First of all, when the earth is of some value, we need to adopt a number of legislative acts, including in my opinion a political decision on how to give the land the property of the goods. After that, not after that, but in parallel, we need to adopt other legislation that stimulates investment in the village. It's like a mortgage, we've been talking about it for a long time, but unfortunately, we haven't accepted it yet. And only because of this, when in the country, if you want, there will be an additional cost in the full sense of that word, a real owner will appear, he will be himself interested in reinstated social infrastructures of villages, only through this circle can we go through and solve the issues of rural infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u32	Please write to Valérie Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u33	Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investment. How specifically does the Government of Ukraine see solutions to the problems of overcoming regional depression in the context of the transition to an innovative economic model? Today, innovation and science and technology in Ukraine are regulated by a number of legislative acts, including the Ukrainian Law on Science and Technology, on Innovation and others. These legislations provide for mechanisms to stimulate scientific and innovation activities. Thus, work has been initiated in the regions from adapting the population to the market economy of weakly protected species and creating jobs through the development of business technology, the development of small businesses. Today, small business support infrastructure consists of 257 business centres, 63 business incubators, 8 tech parks, 107 business support funds, 164 licensing companies, 667 credit unions and 1,091 information and advisory institutions. Work continues in the regions to create regional funds to support entrepreneurship as one of the main financial instruments for supporting entrepreneurship. At the end of the programme, 109 regional support funds have been created in all areas, networks of agencies and business promotion centres are expanding to address small business issues and business needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u34	Victor Turmanov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u35	Dear Valery Ivanovich, I represent a depressive constituency, which includes two mining cities of Tare, Snow and the rural region, the mining area, the rural area. I want to tell you here today that, besides these, we have today called depressed cities: Djersynsk, Gorlovka, Enakievo, Selidovo in Donetsk Region; Stahanov, Branka, Anthracid, Red Luch, Lisicansk, Kirovsk in Lugansk Region; Alexandria in Kirovgradsk; I'm a rookie in Volynsky. The industrial profile of these cities is determined by one or two industries. The regions have suffered as a result of the restructuring of the unthinkable, it is the closure of the mines, where they are now called depressive cities. That's why I have a question for you. We have a budget of 107 million, as you mentioned today, for job creation. I have a question about that. It's been the first quarter. When is this money going to get these depressing regions that need a name to finance them and create jobs? Whether it's in the second quarter, whether it's in the fourth, when the year ends, or maybe we won't get that money at all. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u36	Thank you. I'm not going to take responsibility for the Ministry of Finance for the timing of these contributions. But I can tell you one thing exactly, given today's budget income, we have at least 100 per cent in our plans to fund all budget expenditures. This means that this money will necessarily be allocated to the regions you have identified.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u37	Yes, a written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u38	How the State Employment Program is implemented. It's a matter of a committee of social policy and work. And also the question of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality: What has been done and done by the government to solve the problem of employment in depressed areas? The positive shifts in Ukraine’s economy and the measures taken to promote employment in 2002 strengthened the trend towards improving the labour market situation that had been observed in previous years. It is characterized by an increase in the volume and level of employment, while reducing both the volume and the level of unemployment among the economically active population at 15, 70 years of age. By slowing down the pace and reducing the number of employees being released from businesses, institutions and organizations, increasing wages, significantly reducing the number of employees who were on administrative leave or working part-time. An increase in the number of citizens employed for the promotion of the State Employment Service. In order to carry out the tasks and actions of the State Employment Programme 2001-2004, there are also targeted territorial employment programmes. In the framework of the State Employment Programme 2001-2004, regional employment programmes are designed to support regions from a critical situation in the labour market, as well as to mitigate the social consequences of the closure of unsuspecting coal mines. For example, the employment program in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for 2003 provides for a number of measures to address employment problems in small, monofunctional cities. In particular, take steps to preserve jobs and prevent the self-refoulement of workers at the Sack Chemical Plant by deciding on his rehabilitation in order to improve his financial and economic status. Ensure the inclusion of the unoccupied population of the city of Colkino in seasonal work during the summer period in the sanatorium complex. The employment programme of the Donetsk Region for 2003 is intended to ensure that workers who have been released from the mine are made redundant for additional jobs created by the grant to employers. The Zacarpathian Employment Programme for 2003 is designed to reduce social tension in the urban areas of Mižgirski, Tachiv, Velikobraznian, Volovetsk region by employing nearly 2,000 unemployed citizens. The Employment Programme of the Kirovograd Region for 2003 is expected to resume fully the work of the Prussian Feronicile Combined, which will ensure the restoration of jobs and increase employment levels in the region. To expand the application of work by creating almost 200 new jobs in the New York region's economy. The employment programme of the Luhansk Region provides for the reconstruction and technical rearming of the existing nine sewing mining cities: Branzi, Zimogiri, Kirowski, Red Lucci, Dangerous, Stahan’s creation of nearly a thousand new jobs. In line with projects implemented in special investment areas, with the conservation of mining professions, expand the list of training, training and skills in the professional and technical institutions of the town of Bryanka, the town of Stahanova, Kirovska, Krasnodon from the auto-service, computer, machine, housing and food sector.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u39	Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u40	Volodymyr Mihajlovich, since one of the most depressing areas in Lviv is the Chatter Red City, please pass on the word to Peter Olijnik, who represents the region.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u41	Please, Peter Olinick.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u42	Dear Valery Ivanovich! You know that -- and you called it a statistic -- that today, on 415 coal miners fired, only 1 job was created, because 111 mines are in restructuring. Do you see an alternative system for creating new jobs in all the depressed mining regions of the special investment regime? After all, the earth is unattractive — a failure, a sinking, and so forth. We understand very well that there are questions at 1.24 "Materials and materials," but are we going to take these steps in all of the depression zones? This is the first question. I have a second question for you. You know, today the source of funding for job creation is not a company since this year, but it's been transferred to the Employment Fund. There is no elementary order, there is no concept, there is no return on costs, there is no stock in these companies that are being built. In other words, unlike England, where British works and is very successful. Interprey, we don't have that kind of situation. And the third question. Village of Silec. Hutzer, 52 houses. Without water, flooded, falling apart. In the village of Silec, there are 4 mines that are the largest. And today, there is no source of funding for sending people. Is it appropriate today to create a more robust mechanism for calculating the cost of solving environmental problems, because the costs that are today are not enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u43	Thank you. I'll start with your second question. Well, actually, I'm going to normally draw the government's attention to the transfer of functions that you're talking about, so that there's order there, even though I'm not sure it's that bad. You just have to look at it, maybe with your participation, if that's what you want. With regard to the creation of special economic zones in all areas without the exclusion of mining regions. If you remember, I pointed out in my report that, unfortunately, this tool, or economic zone creation, does not always work. And first of all, it doesn't have any effect in areas where there's no infrastructure, and unfortunately, mining cities are the same region in most of them, of course not all. This is a problem, so today we have to think about other tools, so I don't deny these tools, but we have a question that doesn't allow the zone to be created, but we have to solve the problem that we're facing. So we need to look at all the tools that can exist. As for the last question, I want to tell you, of course, that I'm going to repeat it over and over again, when there's a limitation, a physical limitation on budgetary resources, we can't solve all the issues that exist in the country today. I don't want to refer to local budgets, because I actually know that in the bottom of the left-hand section is going to pay the wages, you and I know that. Maybe if you take care of this problem, it's because of the 225 million that are budgeted as subsidies that you might go this way and send some of the amount to solve the particular problem of the village you're talking about. Let's do this in a way that it wasn't just a conversation, I suggest you look at me with a letter, we'll see, we'll just base this on an economical point of view. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u44	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u45	Committee on Social Policy and Labour. The state and prospects of the living standards of people in depressed regions, cities and villages; the level and timeliness of payments from the average wage and other monetary incomes and their ratio with the subsistence minimum ways of raising the citizens’ monetary income. A living minimum of 365 dollars per month has been established under the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Approval Act 2002. The average monthly wage for 2002 was 376.3 dollars, and for the first time in recent labor, it exceeded the subsistence minimum for working persons and 3.1 percent. But in 17 regions of the country, the average monthly wage was lower than the legal minimum of living. With the aim of creating an effective social protection system and reducing poverty, the Ukrainian President's decree of 15 August 2001 approved a poverty reduction strategy to be implemented annually by the government for the promotion of employment in the labour market. Increased income from employment, targeted support for socio-invulnerable groups. Poverty reduction. With regard to increasing the purchasing capacity of the population in terms of consumer price increases and 6 February this year, a law has been adopted to amend the Ukrainian People's Money Income Index Act, which provides that the indices are subject to the monetary income of the population within the subsistence minimum set for the relevant social and demographic groups. In addition, with the aim of a more complete compensation for the loss of part of the income due to their non-payment on 16 January 2003, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 3 of the Act on Compensation to Citizens for Loss of Part of the Income due to Indemnity of Their Payments was adopted, allowing for the calculation of compensation amounts to take into account the inflation index for the entire period of non-payment of income, including the month preceding the payment of the debt. In February of this year, in nine regions — Vinnitsky, Volinsky, Žitomirski, Kirovograd, Ternopil, Hmelnicki, Cherkaske, Cherniewski, and Chernigiv regions — the wages did not exceed 80 percent of the living minimum set for a working person in 2003. For each region and country, Minpraci has calculated the estimated cost of living for a working person in February 2003. The estimated cost of living for a working person in Ukraine as a whole during the February month of 348 is almost 4.7 percent lower than that for a working person in 2003. In twelve regions, wages are lower than the computational level by 4.9-19.3 percent. At the same time, in the Ternopil area, only 80.7 percent of the wage ratio and the calculated minimum cost of living for a working person was the last place. The ways of raising citizens’ monetary incomes are as follows: ensuring that all the subjects of state guarantees are paid for their work and that they are provided for in regional and collective agreements, removing wages from the shadows, and eliminating debts from wages, and changing the terms of taxation of citizens’ income. You know that the relevant laws are filed with the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u46	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u47	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Your Honor, you may have pointed out that almost all the deputies who asked questions began with what they represented as a depressed region. And from here, ask me, is there any objective criteria for assessing the concept of "depressive territory"? How many do we have? What area do they occupy? How many people do they have? Because I don't understand, by the way, the trend. I feel that Ukraine is gradually becoming one of the only major depressions. And the second question. You know, don't you think the notion of "depressiveness" is being gradually passed on to the social sphere? In any case, as head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, I am convinced that the authorities of pensioners, veterans, disabled persons have already made a major social depression group. So what do you think we can do to keep this trend going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u48	Let's start with the second question. Well, of course you do. Well, let's go from the first one, no questions asked. As far as the definition of "depressive territory" is concerned. Unfortunately, we don't have the legislation, you know. And it's that bill that we're proposing to adopt with regard to defining our own concept of "depressive territory" that is the bill that will define all the legislatively necessary aspects of this concept. Today we think we can use that experience in Europe as well as the CIS countries that already have this legislative definition. This is first of all those areas where socio-economic indicators are not systematically being carried out for these areas, which are far behind over a period of time. And that's what we put in the concept of depressed territories and, of course, where they're not being implemented, relative to the second question, social concepts. But what can we do with you? It's nothing less than, let's say, normal budgeting. And in this growth in the economy, in GDP growth and in budgetary allocations plus rational distribution, but this is what happens in the Supreme Council when we adopt the budget and we can work together on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u49	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u50	Budget Committee. Arrangements for directing Ukraine's general social insurance fund in 2003 to create new jobs for coal workers under article 68 of the State Budget Act. For the time being, Minpraci, along with other central executive authorities and with the ownership of mining regions, has developed a draft Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the approval of the directing and use of the Fund’s public social insurance funds in case of unemployment, on the creation of new jobs for coal workers released in connection with the closure of mines. It is predicted that the State Employment Centre, the Executive Directorate of the Fund during 2003, lists the funds of the Fund for the accounts of the regional public administrations that are open to the public treasury authorities in the amounts foreseen in Appendix 6 to the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003. The number of enterprises, institutions and organizations that are being built or expanded at the expense of the specified funds is to be calculated monthly according to the list of enterprises, institutions and organizations where new jobs and new objects are being created for the employment of workers released from coal and coal-processing enterprises that are being eliminated from the socio-economic development programmes of the regions and approved by the authorities in whose territory these enterprises, institutions and organizations are located.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u51	Vitaly Shibko, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u52	Vitaly Šibko, Socialist faction of Ukraine. Valery Ivanovich, do you think it's right that when we understand what you're saying, there's no way to define what's depression today, a depressive territory. And without this practice to date, we are looking to see if this city or this place is depressing and we are starting to create a separate program to get out of the depressed state of this population. I can get you some yellow water. I've talked about this a couple of times in this room. That's where they're going today, and they're deciding the question. It is not just unemployment or any other problem, it is not developed, it is a social sphere, it is a nuclear waste dump to date. And they've been gathering for years, creating this program, this program even being established somewhere, and there's no money. That is, if there is no money and if Ukraine is in that state today, is it easier for us to admit that today the economy has not stabilized, but the depression has stabilized, and hence to form a budget, hence to form a program for the government, to call it just today, yes, today, so today, a depressing program for the government, a depressing budget. And to build from here all the policies, like already States, that are in such a depression as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u53	Well, of course, that's not right, that's two questions. First. That's not right because, in fact, if we get out of these shipments, we're not going to collect the budget at all in a year, because we're actually turning our backs to those who are giving us funds to the State Budget. So it's impossible to build a fiscal policy at all. We're actually using budgetary resources to tackle the state, one of the main issues is overcoming poverty and socio-economic alignment. That's what we do, that's the budget redistribution. So in this respect, I'm counting that both the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers are doing the right thing. There's no method as to what you're saying. No, there is a method. There is no legislative anchor. And that's really a problem, and that's why we're asking you, the national MPs, to consider the regional development law as quickly as possible and to give us the opportunity to resolve the issue of depressive territory. We will be grateful if he is considered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u54	A letter, please, asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u55	Construction Committee. How does the financing mechanism for the development of depressive cities differ from the funding mechanism for cities under which a national small city development programme is developed? Funding for measures, encouraging the development of depressed areas, as well as the development of small cities, will be carried out within the framework of the general budgetary policy of the State, at the expense of the State budget and local budgets and other sources. That is to encourage their development to take place on the basis of the concentration of state and local resources in the regions in order to achieve the greatest efficiency in their use. The scope of government funding, the promotion of depressive areas, will be determined by the State Budget for the year in line with the decision to grant the status of depressive depressive programs. Funding for support for the development of depressive areas and small city development programmes will also be done through external and domestic borrowings, guarantees from international organizations, charitable contributions, and funds from international programs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u56	Vladimir Zubanov, "Regions of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u57	Valeri Ivanovich, the distinguished one, is aware that the Government is not able to solve this problem alone, and that non-State resources must be mobilized. In Ukraine, sufficient firms, enterprises that are stable, have financial and economic opportunities for their development. Have you tried to develop a specific programme to attract enterprises and firms that work in a stable manner to come to depressed regions with their programmes? I mean, to develop conditions that our steady-working firms would be able to give up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u58	Thank you. But it goes back to talking about infrastructure. So when we say: create conditions, do we understand, first of all, what if an enterprise can come? When an information structure is created for its development. Infrastructuring also requires spending resources. And for the state it's actually a capital investment. The amount of capital deposits is approved in the budget. Almost all of them are distributed to the last penny, you know, again with the budget. We can write the program, but we can't create the conditions. That's a fact. And that's why we're actually getting out of what we say is the financial opportunity we have. And if you mention that investment distribution statistics, it's actually in those cities, villages and areas where infrastructure was actually created, and capital came in. And that's perfectly logical. And that's why we're talking about other tools to get depressed areas out of crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u59	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u60	Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood How will health care in depressed cities and villages in general be financed, and the treatment of tuberculosis patients, in particular? What will finance the implementation of Ukraine’s child - protection laws and State aid to families with children? The 2003 estimate of health expenditure is based on a single formula approved by Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 1195, with changes later made to Cabinet Decision 1382. This formula provides for the determination of expenditure on health, which is included in inter-budget transfers, between the State budget and the budgets of the administrative and territorial units in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, based on the financial standards of budgetary security for one resident and the population of the respective administrative and territorial units, and does not depend on the level of fiscal capacity of a given territory. That is, the lack of a sufficient income base for the budgets of the depressed cities and villages will be compensated by transfers from the State Budget, or the budgets of the districts, in accordance with the formula for the revenue and expenditure of these budgets. At the same time, the National Budget of Ukraine provides expenditure under the budget programme “Sanitary treatment of tuberculosis patients” of 51 million in the provision of the programme and centralized measures to combat tuberculosis of 54Y9 million. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Aid to Families with Children and the Ukrainian Budget Code, the financial provision for the payment of State aid to families with children is made on the basis of subsidies from the State Budget, which are passed on by the administrative and territorial units. The 2003 National Budget of Ukraine approved a subsidy to help families with children, low-income families, disabled children and children with disabilities totalling a thousand. One million 624. One billion 625 million dollars, corresponding to the need for funds to provide assistance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u61	Oleg Gumenyuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u62	Oleg Gumenuk, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Valery Ivanovich! It is known that the Budget Code provides for the financing of schools, hospitals, and other social areas according to the size of the population. And this may satisfy regions with a large population density. I'm interested in your vision. Or is it normal to fund rural areas with low population pay, which leads to rural people not being able to get basic health care because they can't pay for a trip to the district center, which is why schools are failing, cultural houses are failing. Is it necessary to finance these areas, taking into account their specifics, and is there any possibility of taking them into account today in Mineconomy?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u63	Thank you. This is a question that really arose at the time of the adoption of the Budget Code, and you remember that there is a certain formula for calculating one person’s budget security and that she is trying to balance the situation. But I agree with you that there are certain coalitions on this issue, we are now working on the improvement of this mechanism in terms of budgetary security. And we're counting these things because sometimes it actually happens that one hospital is in the same area, and it's used a lot or vice versa, there's a lot of them there, schools for example. And then there's not enough budget funding to keep them. I agree with you. So we're working on the budget security formula.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u64	It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u65	Construction Committee. "How much funding does the government provide for the development of the engineering and transport infrastructure of depressed regions?" Since 2003, a subsidy has been introduced to local budgets from the state budget for investment projects, with a total of 225 million dollars in Ukraine. At the expense of this subsidy, a number of socio-economic development issues can be addressed. But of course, we do. I don't think that money is enough. In connection with this government, a bill was prepared and sent to the Supreme Council on the distribution of state - budget subsidies for investment projects. The bill sets out the basic principles for the granting of subsidies for investment projects, the direction of their use, the order and the conditions for granting subsidies, the criteria for their further redistribution between local self-government budgets, and the selection of investment projects. The implementation of the law will create conditions for a transparent allocation mechanism and concentration of state resources to address regional priorities. It should be noted that Ukraine’s bill to stimulate the development of regions is designed to solve the problems of depressive areas by implementing depressive programs. The development of these programmes will allow for the identification of specific measures and funding volumes, including engineering and transport infrastructure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u66	Sergey Ivanovich Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u67	Valery Ivanovich, I want to take you back to GOKOR. I, like you, have been there since the 1990s, as an MP, as you think the Supreme Council is smartly doing, along with the government and the President, when it wants to sell the underbuilt HOCOR, which is invested in $1,800 million, this figure is well known for one bracelet symbolically. Please tell us, with this kind of possession, that we will, we are hungry, and we are deepening this situation. There's another proposition, there's not enough to start the first round of $240 million, or you can't create a stockholder society, mainly at the expense of the national capital and upgrade, including the state, and build this HOCOR. And then there's some profit from that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u68	Thank you. You asked a complex question about why. Because everything depends, first of all, on goals. I mean, what are the goals of the Supreme Council and government? You know that these forms of privatization have also been applied in other countries, as you say, are not hungry. For example, in Germany, when the eastern and western territories of Germany were united, the object was actually sold on one brand at that time. And in fact, if we demand that this object be upgraded and made profit from it, that is, have taxes and have secure jobs, that might be the way out if there are no others. The problem with the mechanism you're talking about is that it had one billion 200. In my opinion, I did not deal very closely with this object, but I used to approach it, on the condition that I was looking at its economic potential for construction. So what I want to tell you is that you have to know the accounting and remember when the depreciation is going on. And based on the depreciation deductions that are due after the construction of this company, its production is not profitable. That is, there is no investor today who, at such a price and value, is willing to take it on balance and work with it, is simply not physically available. I mean, not in Ukraine, but in the world. If there are such suggestions, I will be very grateful to you and, believe me, I will do my best to implement some other scenario of selling this object or building it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u69	Yes, thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u71	The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u72	Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, what can be said about the subject that is now the subject of our consideration? You can take any area and you can give these examples. We already have, it's said, it's become standard, and unfortunately, it's become common examples, scary examples of the collapse of mining towns and cities not only in Donbas, but today we've heard that in the Lviv region. To take such a city as the city of Kupyansk Kharkiv district. In time, one of the largest factories in the country was still a winery. He served all the agricultural machinery of the European part of the Soviet Union, a unique factory. is unique in Europe. Stopped. Until recently, the Syrka State Mining and Chemical Company in Lviv had no analogues in the territory of the entire former Union. Nearly half of the population of the New Order was involved in this business, and after it closed down, they became unemployed. In 1990, in Kharkiv region, one of the most powerful manufacturing complexes in Ukraine was "The Eagle Sugar Plant", which kept the entire socio-communal area of the village of the local type -- one and a half thousand people unemployed and homeless. And so many examples. So today it's not about whether there's a legislative definition of what a depressed zone is? Regrettably, all of Ukraine today is in a state of depressive development. And that's really scary. And the analysis of trends, as well as the report of the minister just before us, suggests a very unsatisfactory situation. There are two circumstances, the number of cities, villages, and then regions with depressive development, and the gap is rising, or as is now said, the differentiation of regional development rates. These are signs of an uncontrollable systemic crisis, and we don't see a real term right now when this crisis is going to be overcome and it's probably just scary. And the presentation by the distinguished Valery of Horoshkovsky, and the introduction of the government programme, which is already going on committees and factions, shows that today our current government does not have the political will to return the case to radically release existing socio-economic policies and that is probably the main thing today. We recently heard a speech by the distinguished Karpachov, our representative of the Supreme Council for Human Rights. One out of five, it's at least one out of every five socially active Ukrainians working abroad, the country is depopulating, the scenario is being implemented when Ukraine becomes uninhabited. And any recommendations, including those put forward by the committee in its decision, will not be implemented with one until the policy that will allow the State budget to be effectively filled. GDP is rising, so what's the percentage? When these percentages, each percentage of the price, literally, gives a penny and it does not provide the right amount to ensure the very urgent needs of the state. In the meantime, what's going on? Let's just take one indicator of why we need to change course today. For about a few years now, our native Ukraine has held its last place in the fight against corruption, the last in the world. 85 scales from 102 countries that are subject to international observation. At the same time, only the smuggling of cigarettes and tobacco costs about 600 million dollars to the budget today. Only in the alcohol market today up to 70 percent, we're proud of this indicator, up to 70 percent of the product comes from that extinguisher, sorry that didn't go through the state budget. Could such a system exist without guidance at the highest level? People good, respectable colleagues, so let's not make fools of us after all, let's let the people responsible report. So we broke up the economy, started the village, and now we're moaning, and the village is dying? And who's going to support these cultural-administrative centers, schools like no colporteurs, and cooperatives you're not going to be able to create, I'm going to the government. Who's going to do them, what's going on? Let's hit it in the hand, no matter who set up the budget dissipation system. Without that, there will be nothing in Ukraine. It is important to remember and not to make one another happy with fairy tales. The committee's proposals are presented in the draft decisions, they're minimal, we understand that, we've formed them so that the Supreme Council can vote in favour of this decision, and please start the work. Because today we haven't joined the SOT, I'm finishing Vladimir Mikhailovich, we haven't joined the SOT yet, and the new government has already passed a decree on how to allocate subsidies to the sectors of the national economy or the sectors of the economy. It provides a reduction and then an elimination of subsidies. Because see, that's what WTO requires. And the world’s most developed countries, 300 billion dollars a year, give only to farmers, and I'm sorry, they spit on these WTO demands. And we're going to hang out, and we're going to hang out before the IMF, and then we're going to be in front of the EU. Now we're going to huddle up in front of the hundred. As long as there is no independent state policy, until the nation is ruled by people who are real statesmen, there will be no meaning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, let us begin our discussion of the report and the report. Anatoly Matvienko, please prepare for Olive Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u74	Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Anatoly Matvienko. I took the floor from the committee I presided over, on matters of state construction and local self - government. I'd like to begin, my dear colleagues, by addressing Valery Ivanovich and you. I know you as a politician, as a person specific and systematic, and so today, awaiting your report, I awaited an objective assessment and a sober vision of prospects. I think we've all been unanimous in this. Sadly, we can describe the former government as firefighters. And today your report and the analysis that has been prepared gives us reason to say that you continue that shameful tradition of being firefighters. Today, the situation of talking about depressed territories should put us in an extremely serious and responsible position. If two criteria: GDP per capita and unemployment rates are the criteria for defining depressed areas, we can say that Ukraine is all depressed today. So talking about how an infectious patient should treat an infectious patient is obviously worthless. Should we talk about this? Maybe, but not first. The support of depressed territories requires resources and first the financial support. It's worth talking about today, and I'd like to hear it in person, like everyone who listens to us, where to take this resource, and first of all financially. And if we don't know where to go, at least order how effectively those who come to Ukraine naturally today are from those 7 million batteries that at least work today and send some kind of copy. I read an interview with the head of the Kurnicki State Administration in Ternopol. And what Kurnicki writes is that in the past year only after he was told, Valery Ivanovich, in the Ternopil region, I quote him as saying, "It's $100 million." I think about one and a half times as much money came from the Ternopil region as it did from tradition. That's 250 million dollars. We're multiplying by 5.3-- it's almost one and a half billion dollars that came into the Ternopil region. Investments against this background officially amounted to $4.8 million, and in 10 years to 26.9 million in the Ternopil region. The Wage Fund accounts for half of what those who work outside the Ternopil region brought in, and the Pension Fund is three times less. Unfortunately, we are not even talking about such a resource today. Or at least take the lead on his accent. First. It's a childish economy in which today 310 million. It's the protection of the market of its own manufacturer today. And you, Valery Ivanovich, offer us 260,000 tons of sugar cane, cheese, and thus destroy sugar production. In times of depression today, the main challenge is to maintain a strong one. We didn't hear anything about that in your report. Disposal of benefits, which, in different numbers from 30 billion, are only natural persons. A second problem that is worth talking about today. A depressive territory cannot solve its problem unless, at least, there is a common concerted action of local self - government and state authorities. All the world’s depressive practices are based on a treaty between local authorities and government authorities. We destroyed local self - government today. Therefore, we need to talk about how to make it work effectively. We didn't hear anything about it, first of all within its legal, organizational and financial security. I'm done. So it is thought that we will continue this conversation on April 16th, but I think that these points should be reflected in our determination. And finally, the third conclusion. I'm looking for an answer that we don't do anything in this Ukraine even from what we can do, I come, unfortunately, to a very sad one. Or maybe so, because the poorer the people, the easier it is to manipulate them, the easier it is to contaminate them, the easier it is to "fish in murky water" today. Obviously, we have to conclude -- we need a fundamental change first in the system of power and those who are now in charge of this power with the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u75	Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Peter of Olives. Next Sheshun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u76	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs, members of the government! In Ukraine, one of the lowest. I'm sorry, Peter Mikhailovich, 125 Sokal constituency, faction of our Ukraine. In Ukraine one of the lowest investment rates in the former USSR countries, not to mention Central European countries. What are the reasons for this economic degradation and total unemployment today? First of all, I think it's a lack of permanent legislation. Today, he does not know what kind of law it will work on tomorrow. There is no public policy to encourage investors, transparency of privatization, corruption in public administrations. I'm just going to tell you a little bit about how the Sokal District is living today. At night, people cut down the forest, and then they export it, cutting off our future. Even Belarus today does not export unprocessed wood. At the same time, at night imports are also coming. For hundreds of millions of dollars, goods are smuggled without customs, without any form of goods for Ukraine. And when they stop a car and there's $10,000 or $15,000 worth of goods, all the media are telling the whole of Ukraine. And when 34 cars stop and today there's $1.4 million worth of goods, that's what everyone's talking about. According to our estimates, smuggling has lost up to 30 billion dollars in the U.S. state budget, or 80 percent of the budget. Today, there are also problems in depressed areas, not only national ones, but, say, local problems. First. This is the absence of the program, which Valeriy Ivanovich said was fully stimulating investors in depressed zones. I'm convinced that this incentive is to create a special regime for investment. If the state cannot help, at least it should not interfere. The next is a full reform of the Blood-Hungarian Restructuring Company. We need to allocate the functions today: physical closure of mines to give to the territorial authorities of the company Restructuring; environmental problems to the authorities of the regional administration and problems that today are related to job creation, to the companies that will be involved in the creation of jobs, especially today's transfer of the Unemployment Fund. And the next way I see it is by creating alternative sources of financing for environmental problems. I've already said about the sad village of Silec in the Sokal district, where there are four mines in the area today, and 52 houses go underwater, people today don't have water. And here it's probably appropriate to put in a sinking bet at least 50 kips, and because of these problems, we might be able to eliminate the consequences today. There are large reserves in the targeted complex programs of our ministries and departments. For example, health care could work more closely in such fearsome areas as the town of Sosnevica, where 95 percent of children suffer from hypoplasia. In short, a legislative framework is needed and a targeted comprehensive program is needed to get the depressed zones out of that terrible situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u77	Mikola Shershun, next one is Masenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u78	Mikola Shershun, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues. Today, the concept of a depressing territory has been quite clearly defined, and I will not repeat myself, but I will focus on the complexity of such cities and villages, and I will suggest a vision of how to get them out of a depressed state. In the Plain region, half the cities and villages of the urban type are located in depressed areas. This is primarily the six northern areas that have been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the CHAES accident. They are exclusively agrarian, and so the population is usually monofunctional, i.e. their vitality depends entirely on the performance of one, two enterprises, or industries. To date, the rate of fixed unemployment in these depressed areas is more than 15 percent, and the real one is up to half the population. In order to stimulate the development of the Porz region, the Rhine government sent a package of documents to Mineconomy in 2000 to establish the territories of the six northern regions of the special investment regime. In connection with the moratorium on the creation of new special economic zones, consideration of the matter by the government is constantly delayed. And this has dramatically reduced the competitiveness of the economy and the already depressed Plain with the corresponding negative socio-economic and socio-political consequences when introducing a special regime for the investment of neighbouring Žitomir and Volinsk regions. We therefore believe that the government needs to develop a mechanism to support the depressed areas of the Plain Police as soon as possible. This will allow for a comprehensive use of the rich natural resources and human potential of the region. There are unique deposits of useful fossils, basalt, amber, tuf!!!!!!!Oh, granite, peat, copper. I ask that Valery Ivanovich consider all of this in the development of the State Program. The state’s active support for depressed regions will allow modern production of forest resources to be made. Implement projects in the field of energy conservation and environmental protection. Yes, the neighbourhood with nuclear power plants is a serious problem for the Plains, adding to many existing areas new serious environmental, economic, and social problems. So we think it's appropriate for legislation to define the 30-kilometre zones around nuclear stations as a potential radioactive pollution area with appropriate risk compensation for the activities of these nuclear facilities by further financing the social infrastructure and the system of ensuring the viability of the population of these areas. We need to act on the principle that if we do not fight depression, it will become an untreated disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u79	Alexander Masenko. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u80	Honorable deputies and members of the government! I came to the conclusion that the true information is that 60 percent of cities are underdeveloped and 33 percent are depressed -- 93 percent are actually depressed in Ukraine. Well, maybe they're all 100, except Kiev itself, but I understand that 100 percent to pass, that would probably be pretty scary for the government. What are some of the indicators in the documents that are presented? Gross added value, direct foreign investment, per capita income, unemployment rates are generally defined by such a system that it does not reflect the real level of unemployment. This is what they're talking about, this indicator that's set? Valerius Ivanovich, I would ask you to listen! What are they talking about, these indicators? They're not talking about anything. I remember in the newspaper Today, if there's a newspaper correspondent, last November there was a note under the heading "Thirty-and-a-half million poor people in Ukraine are growing GDP to a light bulb." It's not a Communist newspaper. But that's how the title is chosen. Yeah, these indicators, they're exactly where they're going. Why don't we talk about what the salary is? What kind of pension insurance? What medical care in these areas? What level is it on? So if we were talking about it, it would be really taking care of those depressed areas. I call upon members of the government and deputies not to speak, but to go to those depressed areas and see how people live there and then to draw conclusions. One hundred bucks, it's crazy money, people are good, and think about whether any of you could live for a hundred bucks in Kiev. But I'm curious about another question. Who caused the whole country to become depressed? Part of it's sitting here, these people, some of it's sitting on the bank, and they're not responsible for anything. I'm even afraid to hear a representative of the Agrarian Committee speak so painfully about the state of affairs in the village, and who destroyed that village, who broke down the colonies that held the whole social sphere of these settlements, and now there's no responsibility. I don't see any prospects for reducing the depressed regions in our country, I don't make any specific proposals, except for one. We've already become fashionable, that as soon as there's some kind of issue, it's all taken care of by the President. So let's make a decision that all these depressing territories are going to be taken by the President, and then maybe there's going to be some kind of upheaval. And it was the best thing to do, in my opinion, to move the President's Administration to those depressed areas, and if the President himself and his family lived on that pension, in those conditions, would survive, not survive, then his fate would be met by those four million that we did not have in the country of Ukraine. I just can't see another way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u81	Vladimir Puzakov, next Tooth. Please follow the time limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u82	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Dear government officials! Do you not know and see that not only people but the state has been depressed for ten years? A drug has already gone to the second-tenth of Ukraine's independence, and we can't get out of this state. What accession to Europe can we talk about today. Of course, the President does not live in a depressed region, so he does not know what poverty is, what depression is, what to do with a peasant, a doctor, a teacher, a scientist, a young person when she is depressed, and who lives in a depressed region. Although I can't say that about Kirovgrad, there's nothing wrong with reporting the authorities and the media. However, at the district council, where the President's representative was present, a thorough analysis of the work in the area last year was given, where no positive example was given in the agro-industrial complex. So what is the state of the area, whether progressive or depressed? Let's look at our neighborhoods. There are 4 of the 43 industrial enterprises in Malovsky region. In the Bobrinecki region, the head of the administration destroyed the area by 90 percent because he had no time to think about the area or the spring season. He owns his own agro-firm in the nearby village of Shishkin in the region. On the other hand, a group of officials began to be with the head of the Board of Directors until the collapse of the area. In the very center of the city, Dolinska’s multistory dwellings do not warm up. Today they stand without windows, without doors, only sparrows fly in them. And the village of Pobuzeké Golovanovsky district, whose problems I turn to the government from this main rostrum, is unfortunately also dying. And so, whatever area you're going to take, it's the same depression. Not all problems are listed, but district management lives by principle -- let's not do that -- let's write that down, let's not add that up, let's write that down. There's one on paper in the chamber. When it was said earlier that the status quo knew everything, today - the status quo could do anything. And the reason why the President had such a surprising face when he asked who and where the grain was. We need to ask the governors. It takes a lot of disrespect to let them cheat on both the President and the people. And what are you thinking, Mr. President, when you elect a two-room parliament to fill the upper chamber with such a woeful governor? Sadly, all of this affects an average citizen. Already in the area, there was an increase in the production of crochet products, and without an announcement. One reason is that at the threshold of the spring-field company, the costs are, as always, no, and the costs are projected to be high. However, the American aggressors were given a quick 12 million dollars in the agreement, although it was better to leave them to solve the problem of our Kirovgrad depression area, to build the surgical corps of the fourth hospital in Kirovgrad, to launch a ferronicel combination in the village of Pobudsk, the mining and enrichment complex in Dolinsk, to repair roads in Kirovograd, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u83	Valentin Zubov, next Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u84	Respectable People's Deputies, distinguished members of the Government. A classic analysis of any problem requires a search for the answer to three main questions: what is happening, why and what needs to be done. I fully agree with the people's deputies who claim today in this Chamber that Ukraine today is a brave place for all of Ukraine to be placed in a depressive development zone. Nevertheless, in my statement, I would like to address the problems of the Donetsk region. All my conscious life I've lived in the Donetsk region. Now that I have arrived there in an area that was still 15 years ago with the edge of flowering roses, I cannot help but see what is happening there without pain. Officially: 40 per cent of Donetsk industrial enterprises do not work, and the core production funds are more than 90 per cent. I would like to make a mistake, but I think that the Donetsk region will be one of the first to enter the zone as soon as possible and during the period of technological catastrophes, when they begin to explode, God forbid, but it may happen, marten, chemical production and so on. Unemployment is rising rapidly. Poisoned habitat, water and air. Tuberculosis and cancers are rapidly growing. We have hundreds of lost mining lives. Most importantly, dozens of mining cities die slowly and steadily: Torres, Gornjak, Ukraine, Selidovo, Snow. The mass of miners is the hunger strike. Today, 12 people in Pavlovgrad are starving in protest against what is happening. And the question is, why does this happen in our country anyway? In general, the answer to this question is not difficult if we try to find a valid answer to it. What we have expected since the beginning of our reforms is that we have intensively destroyed the public sector of Ukraine's economy for 12 years without creating a competitive struggle between the public sector and the private sector, as is done worldwide. What did we expect if we privatized the energy market at the beginning of the reforms, the energy system, the blood system of the economy, which led to hyperinflation and the most severe consequences? What do we expect if we privatize today, not the world’s lost businesses, but the profitable enterprises? What do we expect if we have an extremely stupid policy, if we don't say suicidal agrarian policies, when the agrarian sector of the world is on the move and we're robbing it, robbing it and continuing to rob it? And as a result, the coal industry dies because we're told, "It's non-profitable," and at the same time, in the same Donetsk region, it's already about a thousand self-acting mines, where miners get coal themselves with bricks and shovels -- it's profitable. The industry is unprofitable. It's a paradoxical country. Therefore, the only way out now is to realize our positions, to realize that we have gone to a completely different direction over the past 12 years, that this policy is criminal, that politics is anti-national and change is a decisive change in the course of reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u85	National Deputy Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u86	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government! Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] It seems to me that before we can define what depressed territories are, we need to visualize what is happening in the countryside. Dear Valery Ivanovich! If you're here right now, you go to the village and look at the state today of the FAP, the school, the cultural establishment. Look at the wage levels and you'll realize that aside from depressing territories, the term and the "depressive industries" that today are culture, education, health care. The question that we're looking at today, I'd rather call the problem a problem. The violent imbalance in regional development, the lack of an overall state policy on the regions, the sensitivity of clearly defined strategic orientations in this direction are damaging mainly to the future of Ukraine. Because if regional policies cannot be raised to the right level, then the role of the global periphery will have to be reconciled. Closed economic backlogs of unattractive regions will hardly be able to resist the negative effects of globalization. In addition, the growth of regional imbalances poses another scourge — a threat to the integrity of the State. To the deep conviction of the Democratic Party of the Social Party of Ukraine, the implementation of regional policy is an exclusive function of the State. [[united]] Private business is not going to be about getting closer to socio-economic development, giving equal opportunities to people living in different regions. Only the state will take care of it. And if we're going to talk about the state level, we need to think about a special organ. The creation of a single government agency to deal with the problems of regional development is time-governing. Next, according to the faction, the main reason for the absence of fundamental progressive steps in the development of national regional policy is the existence of substantial legal, legal barriers to local regional development. All the years of independence we've seen the inequality in the development of regions, but in the legislative context, we haven't been able to determine that. The parliamentary bills on depressing territories are under review in government and in the committees of profile, and the government bill, based on the information, only promises to be submitted in the near future. How can we solve a problem if there is no single foundation. And from here, the fragmentation of decisions made in the area of regional policy and what financial alignment is in terms of limited resources. This is something that every MP knows about, at least in their own districts, that social issues have not been resolved for years. For example, the Lviv Cardiology Centre provides assistance to some 10,000 people each year and is located in former Chinascope factory facilities. The required 5 million dollars to complete the cardiocenter for 5 years did not appear in the budget. In general, the health budget is taken into account by Minfin on a one - person basis, but in the last five years, expenditures on the field have been approved at 50 percent of the need. If the Lviv region of depressive areas is present, the formal principle should simply take into account the appropriate adjustment coefficients, and then 80 percent of the medical equipment in Lviv worked, and 70 percent of the health facilities in the adapted facilities. Not a better situation in schools. There are 226 schools, 32 schools, and that's the number of students in Lviv -- third place in Ukraine, and spending on students -- on 20th. The parliamentary faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine is calling on the government to consider the problems that we have raised. [[united]] Special emphasis is placed on the need for as soon as possible legislative regulation to stimulate regional development. Among the most appropriate methods in this direction are the creation of the necessary conditions for self-replicating regions and their investment attractiveness. Among the specific instruments of regional policy we see the widespread use of innovative growth models. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u87	Vladimir Demyohin, People's Rule Group. Get ready for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u88	Vladimir Demyohin, 184th District, Herson. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished people's deputies, members of the Government. In my statement, I would like to refer to two elements that, in my view, are of serious importance in the consideration of today's issue. The first is the use of the very term “depressive”. Secondly, the role of a special investment regime in the development of depressed regions. It should be noted that, on the first issue, there is a lack of terminology. We widely cultivate the term “depressive” and virtually do not use the term “resistible”. The definition of a depressive region was carried out in the Presidential Decree on the Concept of State-Regional Policy. Legislation, such as the European Union, provides a clear definition of “delayed” and “depressive regions”. The main objectives have already been established on the basis of these definitions since the time of the European Union's regional policy. The absence of a distinction between “delayed” and “depressive regions” in domestic legislation leads to the same measures to combat regional depression and underdevelopment. Such a situation weakens the economic policy of the State as a whole, and naturally, as a result, it has negative consequences. Now to the question of the need and effectiveness of the mechanism for assisting depressed regions. Assistance towards a special investment regime. Recently, this issue has been actively discussed and has led to criticism and discussion. Noting that the use of a special investment regime as an instrument for social and economic development does not work in the territories with the lowest level of economic development. The Government rightly concludes, the main reason for this phenomenon, the lack of appropriate infrastructure to enable development in those territories. We must be aware that the application of specific methods of socio-economic development will only work if they are implemented on a prepared basis. In the absence of different ways and methods to help depressed backward regions, the Government wrongly claims that the tax relief instrument is ineffective. I will focus on a specific example of the Herson region. Industrial development in the region has always been determined by a number of enterprises, such as a boy's paper combination, a shipbuilding association and a combination. Today it is a depressed region, and businesses are virtually out of work. In the case of a shipbuilding plant, what reserves of State support could be used could be shown very briefly. Tax, credit, depreciation and risk insurance policies are well-known components of the economic support policy. The construction is a special industry. The timing of the ship's construction is a year, 10-12 tax periods. What about the business economy in the case of an export order? The enterprise purchases materials and internal market kits. That means plus 20 percent of VAT has to be paid. The import and assembly materials are VAT on release, which may return in a month and the foreign customer is not targeted at domestic VAT payments. It is therefore clear that special economic regulation techniques can be applied to those enterprises that are now prepared for special economic zones and territories of priority development. And I believe that Herson's construction is right to deserve it. In conclusion, in view of the foregoing, our Government should clearly distinguish ways and methods of dealing with backward and depressed regions when planning and implementing regional socio-economic policies. On that basis, the task of improving legislation is to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u89	Valerius Konovaluk, faction of the Ukraine region, prepare for Sergey Doroguntsov. Dear colleagues, Valérie Illich, one minute! I forgot a little bit here. We're on a break schedule right now. Why don't we just take a break so he can finish early like you? A break? A break of 30 minutes is announced. Excuse me, please. I've already announced a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I invite Valery Konovaluk, faction of the Ukraine region, to prepare for Sergey Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Valerius Konovaluk, "Regions of Ukraine", Donetsk Region. I wanted to start with the answer, because it's not about reform, it's about the respectable colleagues, it's about who implements them, and what, let's say, is the expectation that they meet the social hopes. The main objective of the national regional policy is to create conditions for the dynamic balanced socio-economic development of Ukraine and its regions, to raise the standard of living of the population, to ensure that the State guarantees social standards for each citizen, regardless of their place of residence, as well as to increase market transformation processes on the basis of improving the efficiency of the use of the potential of the regions, to increase the effectiveness of governance decisions, to improve the functioning of public authorities and local self-government bodies. Measures on regions or parts thereof, within which the economic development and social security indicators of citizens under the criteria defined by legislation are significantly lower than the corresponding averages in the state, aimed at stimulating their development by using fiscal, tax, pricing, innovation and other policies. As evidenced by the government’s information, many things have been done in this direction, but some shortcomings have also been made. Today, unfortunately, two years after the adoption of the President's above-mentioned decree on the concept of State regional policy, the concept of "depressive territory" has not been defined by law, and the problems associated with them have not become less acute. This can be illustrated by the examples of mining cities that have almost all the problems associated with depression. This list can be continued indefinitely. The problem has grown to such a size that it threatens to form the territory itself. A system of grants that has been in place for several years has not solved the problem of the budgets of depressed areas. First of all, as a result of the unrealisticity of income indicators, which are calculated by applying the index of relative flexibility. It is therefore necessary to develop a flexible regulatory system that takes fully into account the economic processes that are taking place in the country. Depressive territory standards should take into account their limited capacity to grow a income base. We need to figure out what this is about areas where socio-economic conditions have deteriorated dramatically, and they've become sources of social tension. They don't have their own resources, and those that are budgeted from the state budget to overcome rising negative trends are not enough. The very fact that depressed territories exist makes it impossible to realize within their constitutional rights, freedoms, and guarantees. So it certainly affects the need to develop and use at national, regional and local levels a set of antidepressant measures. It must be understood that the situation surrounding the depressed territories cannot be resolved by the authorities of local self - government, that is, without government involvement. Therefore, concerted action by the executive authorities is essential. We need to put in place a mechanism to give appropriate status to territories with objectives and conditions of State support, to regulate competitive selection of specific depressed areas with a view to their priority and secure funding at the expense of the state budget. This approach will enable economic life to be activated in the appropriate areas, improve the situation with the employment of the population, and give impetus to the self - development mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u92	Sergey Drogunzov, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u93	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I confirm that I am Drogunzov and a member of the Ukrainian Company. And I also want to say that my colleague Masenka's call was heard by the national MPs, and they went friendlyly to the area to make things right, because there were others in the room who were planning to take the floor. And now, essentially. We know that the main direct cause of the economic crisis is the contradiction between production and consumption as a result of the slowdown in consumption from production, resulting from the lack of a market for manufactured goods. In Ukraine it found its manifestation in the destruction of the national masses, its levels, and its scales. Almost all the population became poor. But its depth varies for different types of population, most survive. When did this start? I have been working at the Supreme Reed since 1990 and have witnessed these events. In 1991, especially in 1992, a course to reduce internal consumption is announced, with a conscious announcement. Guys, you know what this is. It's a stretching course. In December 1992, it was not a Lenin decree to freeze wages and pensions. At the same time, the December 20s make a tenfold increase in prices for the very goods needed for the population. Clearly, the result. This eventually led to a global decline in production, the physical destruction of the productive forces of all their elements. One population did not become an absolute 4 with a million hook, so there was a basic model, a basic model in which the wages -- the wages -- were far behind in many ways the productivity of the work. This model works today. If labor productivity has dropped 2-2.5 times, the wages are 8-10 times. And this is being preserved today. And we're told that for everything you're asking, there's no money, there's no money. There's no money. The money actually is, in fact they are, the resources are, but they're not in those who should be and not where they should be. They may not be in the country. This is because of this model. And as we get out of it, we're told, in order to raise the wages, the standard of living of the population, we need to increase the productivity of the work. And I'm saying that at today's productivity level, we're going to raise our wages by 3-4 times. Here lies the foundation or general direction, the pillar of the solution to the problem of depressed areas. It doesn't matter what definition these areas are given. I mean. That the population of these areas, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, is 603,000 square meters. This is Ukraine. Let's raise it. Kilometers. 603,000 square miles. Let's raise the standard of living of the people is the main lever of depressiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u94	Astrov-Shumilov. Get ready for Carmazine. [[12:40:28]] (Signed) Astrow-Shumilov H.K. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. On the basis of the definition of depression, most of the territory of the Lugansk region, in particular those settlements where mines had been closed, and those in the area had already 41 units, another 12 were to be closed before 2004. The lack of a well-balanced approach to the closure of chess has given rise to a phenomenon called the loop of the crisis. Its essence is that efforts to improve the situation create new and more diverse problems: unemployment, the social crisis, environmental problems, the desperate, hopeless state of people. The closure of the mines in Luhansk has not only not improved the socio-economic situation of the region, but has also created zones of devastation and destruction. We have received over 50 depressive cities and towns, nearly 2,000 and a half hectares of submerged areas, with more than 2,000 homes and public buildings, nearly the same number of abandoned homes. Almost a fourth of the area has become unemployed. The area of fifth place in the State of economic potential is one of the highest levels of poverty in the country and the most complex socio-demographic structure. Even in regions where coal enterprises are relatively safe, the situation is close to critical. You're on your own. The number of people living in such a region is twice as low as the average and several times less than the national average. And if you compare it to Kiev, ten times. At the same time, the total flow of water networks and water lines is up to 80 per cent. In an emergency, there are sewage collectors of power that do not provide normal wastewater treatment. As a result of the landslides that have been planted by mines, the destruction of water networks and sewage collectors has been progressive, leading in turn to emergency environmental and social situations. The housing fund in the balance sheet of local councils is in poor condition due to continuing underfunding. The forthcoming transfer of departmental housing and social facilities to communal property is of particular concern. In view of the fact that the formation of local government budgets takes place through a formal approach and an increase in income in the current tax policy, the content of this area in municipal property is not simply problematic but virtually impossible. It is difficult to explain to the local voters who listed the State Budget and Extrabudgetary Funds over 300 million dollars over the past year, why their city budget is only 23 million dollars. If at least a third or a fourth of these taxes were left on the ground, the issue might be so acute today and not stand. Deeply convinced that the number of depressive territories can be significantly reduced by the creation of socio-economic zones by directing some of the taxes to local current and forward-looking objectives, thus allowing today's survival zones to transform into a zone of forward-looking development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u95	Yuri Carmazin, get ready right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u96	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, national MPs, members of the government, the suffering Ukrainian people! The question of the situation of the prospective depressed areas, cities, and villages of Ukraine that we are considering today is certainly one of the most important. Because in the city of Odessa the hero is cut off from the heat, the heat is cut off, the children are frozen, even the city hero Odessa has become a depressed region. Well, that's the policy of solid debalonization in Odessa. Those who spoke before me have already discussed various signs of city and region depression and how they could be brought back to normal. What can be done to motivate business to develop and create new high-tech products in such large areas as Donetskina has already been said. I'd like us to talk and take measures, especially to raise the intellectual and professional level of residents of typically mining cities, and then there'll be jobs. I strongly disagree with the government's position on stimulating and stimulating the role of taxation. Taxation on profits in these cities, which are determined by depression and where 93 percent come from all cities in Ukraine, should be 3-5 percent lower than, say, Kiev. Then these cities will live. I want to stop at other causes of this depression and the sources of funding for a way out of the crisis, more simple and understandable for all issues. What, for example, is the reason for the number of depressed regions such as Carpathian and Crimea? Virtually all signs, territorial, climatic, may rightly be considered by the Ukrainian Swiss or the Lazarn Coast. What's in the way? People have already said that, and I want to add. In his time, Roosevelt, whose experience we often refer to, introduced a program of intensive road construction. Thus came Germany. As long as the government doesn't show that it's clear what roads are and why they're needed for the economy, nothing will happen. We raise huge funds, we bring in various congregations, but they all go, as Prime Minister Janukovic recently miraculously discovered for himself, to patch the pits during the rain. And dear friends, I want to come to you with an offer and make a proposal to the President -- let's make the military parts of Kiev, from the big cities we'll redesign small cities, let's make it better. Let's take a look at the depression that's on Ukrainian citizens today. The army in Odessa today is in a state of depression. Imagine the Odessa region being flown by a B-52, being bombed, and today the officers can't say, they don't respond to the request of their foreigners, what do the pilots do, what do the border guards do? Such a situation is terrible, who allowed it, and I would like the Prime Minister to say who allowed it to become a country that is depressed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u97	Vassil Drag is gone, he's gone. Mikhailo Vasilovich Gladys, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. I have a note to prepare for Bysar, instead of Richter's.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u98	Michael Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The question that we are looking at today has long gone beyond the economic and social framework and has become of a social and political nature. Because if 33 percent of small cities today are depressed and the situation does not change for the better, it is a national disaster. Because small cities make up three quarters of the total number of cities in Ukraine. So let me draw three fourths, that's the first. It's different. Let's take the villages. Most of them, by all indications, are also subject to the term "depressive," but it is not surprising that the word "rural" even fell out of the name of the agenda. There's a town, there's a village, there's no village. He was driven, as always, under the general definition of "region," and more specifically, given to the local authorities, who financially cannot make ends meet. In general, we underestimate the role of our villages in the established and established states not only as economically stable but primarily as a self-sustaining country. Last week there was another PARE session, where issues of new agricultural policy were discussed among many issues. I had to speak in the discussion. In short, Europe today is concerned that over-urbanization has caused the loss of technology to villages and hordes, as has been pointed out by deputies from various countries, the possible islands of national traditions and customs, the real spiritual sources of the nation. Unfortunately, today's vast majority of our Ukrainian villages are in a depressed state, as I said, so there is a risk that many cultural and spiritual acquisitions will disappear, as this has happened especially in the Chernobyl area, which is a depressed region. The Lviv region, which includes not only the most depressed small cities, is clearly illustrated by many villages, particularly in five border areas. All of this is the result of the destructive state policy of the former Union. Because in Lviv, many years of modeling development have been carried out exclusively in the public interest, not in the local, but in the military industry. Its cat, and in fact, the massive militarization of the western region, where Lvivščina was given a special role, markedly took place in the territory of the country. A single Javorov military range swallowed up a dozen villages. Finally, there are not only significant distortions in the territorial distribution of productive forces but also higher concentrations of industrial production. This, in turn, has led to excessive technological pressures on the environment, dangerous environmental conditions, including foreign lands. And instead of being said to treat this protracted disease with all peace, we only resort to touching holes and even trying to save our lives. Take, for example, the 1995 Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements, with various additions to it. Sadly, all these documents do not provide State guarantees to the inhabitants of these areas. Even 20 percent of the pension, scholarship and salary payments to budget workers are made at the expense of local budgets. That is, sinking saves themselves. Third. There is not enough legislation on depressive areas. Not even a legal term. Adopted at the state level a few years ago, the "Ukraine: Progress in the 21st Century" programme, apart from the declarant proposals, does not provide for anything concrete in this direction. And so in conclusion, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party believes that the Cabinet of Ministers needs: First, to urgently prepare a draft law in which to give legal definition of a phenomenon such as socio-economic depression and to define the legal field of overcoming it; Secondly, to develop a comprehensive national programme of targeted economic social and financial recovery for all depressive areas, leaving the status of free economic zones in areas where it is indeed a positive result. In Lviv, this is the Yavorov district of Truskavets; Third, in future government budgets, all costs associated with the elimination of depressive phenomena are written in a single line; And lastly, he suggests that the issue be identified as a priority in the legislative, executive and, within the control, to return to it in the fourth quarter of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u99	Leonid Bysarov, Ukrainian Deputy faction, to prepare Ještenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u100	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. As a national deputy from the 49th Dobropelian constituency, I would like to put a stop to the problems that lead to the tragedies of small mining cities. Such cities and villages in Donbas, where the consequences of counterfeiting are close to catastrophic ones, are many. The most problematic in this regard is the city of Bilozerské Donetské region, where a technological catastrophe has already taken place without exaggeration. Everyone knows that coal - layer mines cause significant damage to the environment. The town of Bilozerska is a typical mining town of Donbas, with a population of about 20,000. As a result of two coal layers, the sediment of the earth’s surface reached two feet [2.5 m], and nine coal layers that lie beneath the city of Belozer’s total deposition of the earth’s surface would reach eight feet [8 m]. Belozersky had conditions that violated the safety of his citizens. About 20 buildings are in an emergency technical condition, and there are many buildings in a pre- and underprivileged state, including high - school buildings. Water and sanitation networks are very worn down, and most buildings are practically permanently flooded with groundwaters and wells from water and sewage systems. To a large extent, the environmental disaster in the city also occurred because of the emergency of clean - up facilities, which are very worn - out and provide only 30 percent of the city’s wasteland. Rivers are being dumped into the balconies, and the city is under constant threat of drinking water. The level of disease in the city is much higher than the average in Ukraine, Donbas, an area that poses a real threat to mass epidemics. The impact of coal - layer mines and the effects of mine removal on the waste treatment plant is largely due to the emergency condition of the sewage treatment plant. The mine disposal project, approved by Minpalivoenergo Ukraine’s order 247 of 11.07.2000, included the construction of new clearing facilities with costs of 8.7 million dollars. However, funding has not yet begun. The negative state of environmental impact in the city and in the region on mining production processes in Belarus is objectively confirmed by the following. Four hundred apartments have been abandoned and are not used, and skilled workers, including primary mining workers, are being drained. Because of the shortage of labor in the city of Bilozerosk, the supply of labour from other locations is being made. The city’s mines, despite difficulties, have achieved a steady increase in coal production. In order to rebuild mines, it is necessary to increase the number of mining specialists. After their reconstruction, which will result in an increase in capacity, there will be a need to create additional jobs, since there is no work force in the city of Belarus, the re-entry of workers into the mine will be largely accommodating, their families will have to be placed in the city, and this is virtually impossible. Efforts have been made to remedy the situation in the city. However, due to the lack of adequate funding for the implementation of appropriate design and construction work, the city remains at risk, despite the large amount of construction work done by Dobropolwogil in the city. So, I think the only way to prevent the disaster that's taking place in Belarus is to declare this city an ecological and technological emergency. This will allow funding to be done through a specially designed budgeted program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u101	Yes, Mikola Yeshchenko. Vladimir Yeshchenko. I'm sorry. It's like Santa Claus to get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u102	Dear comrades! Dear voters! Fucking Communist faction. I want to respond immediately to a statement by one of the MPs who was here telling me how the village was ruined by the Soviet authorities. Everyone knows, and voters know how the village developed under Soviet rule. That was it. And today it's ruined. And unfortunately, there are those who destroyed the village while they were in high positions. I think we should think about what you're saying. The government's day of state and the promising state development of the depressed regions and the program that we are looking at in the Supreme Council on the development of small cities is very much needed to solve and accept another 5-7 years ago. And now, after the collapse of the economy, the sharp decline in production, the destabilization of the socio-economic and financial situation in Ukraine during 1991-2003, the economic base in most regions and small cities of Ukraine has been virtually destroyed. I want to stop at the development of the Chercas region. She was led by a Lukyan member of the SDPU, then removed. Leads now the leader of the district organisation of SDPU(o) Lyshinka. I took the materials, I looked. Gross added value per capita is the 13th place. This is our Cherkas region, everyone knows how it developed. 22nd place on direct investment per capita. 19th place on income budgets of all levels per capita. And the 15th place on the incomes of local budgets per capita. Therefore, the workers of Cherkaščina will not remain silent, and on April 5th in the Cherkas region there was a protest by opposition forces that came out not only in the district center, but in many cities, including in 13 small cities that are really destroyed today. In my speech, I also want to put a stop to the problems in our Cherka district of those small cities. On February 6, in my request to Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine, I applied to the state of industrial enterprises and to the social protection of the population of Vatutina. I got the answer, but let's see, out of those thousands of 130 jobs created in five years, it's only 300 years -- it's Vatutino, a mining town that's practically destroyed today. And the last. I've already told you about Chigirine, I think the minister is going to consider this issue, but on our hearings, April 15-16, the guarantor of the Kuchma Constitution is coming to Cherkas. It's already determined where it's going to be, already washed, cleaned. But I think let him go through those villages, after the 13 cities of Cherkashina, and see how people live, where poverty, where people live. That's why I think we're gonna do everything we can to meet Kushma in Crimson.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u103	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine". Get ready for the chariot. Please, Drogunz Sergey, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u104	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, thank you very much for your kind conduct. But what I'm trying to say is, there's no report. Who's listening?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u105	He's a smoker.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u106	And the Tobacco doesn't deal with these issues, the humanitarian sphere -- it's a derivative. Well, maybe the main one, but we're talking about the economy here mostly. I'd like that! What might be more important than meeting with 450 deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u107	The Minister for Economics and Euro-Inclusion of Flights to Germany is represented today by the leaders. Well, I couldn't forbid it, well, I couldn't forbid it, dear colleagues. Well, it's going to be known. I understand, well, dear colleagues, let's keep going. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u108	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished ones present, good day to all who listen to us today. Noting the urgency of the matter, I wanted to reproach ourselves when the subject of today’s conversation was identified. Let's think about it one more time. It's like, "About the state and the prospects." The state began to be analyzed -- we don't know what criteria it needs to be analyzed by. More with perspective. This is referred to a bill that will be submitted to our session hall. And from that, how we support it, we vote, there will be results. Here we go. Why have depressed cities and villages been taken? I've already asked questions. And where are the silradas, where the most concentrated villages, I'd say, depression? The following question. Today, the situation in the region is extremely short-lived, and I'd like to say that a lot of depressing, you could say, population sites are hiding in the notion of "area," "areas." I'm taking over my Sumskie district. If you take the analytic materials that are given to you today, it's practically taking up places that are above the average. But where are the districts of my district? This is the Middle Building, the Jumpil, the Crolevets, the Deaf, who were referred to the Northern Police by the decree of the 2068 Cabinet of Ministers. That's the first one. The other one. When Depressiveness Is Determined in the Territory I wish we weren't operating on common terms. For the population, for the family, it is important for the individual to have what level of service in his or her community. It's also a level, I'll start with both medical and cultural household services. We have all these things hidden in our common sense. Next, I want to think about who's responsible for the development of the territories. I agree with the Mineconomy, but then there's a desire for the Mineconomy to invite such structures, which were once directly responding and developing the village. This is Ukooppilka, this is the Ministry of Housing, this is MinAPK, and MinAPK has to educate and explain how it goes to support rural areas. The social development of the village, with nearly two billion government funds in the state budget. Suggestions, I would, in a draft ruling that is being considered today after all the points where after the words "area, city, village." Add the word "silrada." The other one. Obligations to be made by the government, the areas of government, to identify urgently populated areas in need of state support. For example, depression is determined simply by the signs of the situation. You have to take, for example, soil fertility, which is the main thing in the village. If you have to put twice as much in the village as you can get from the crop and without State support, this village will not survive. And in conclusion, I would like to conclude by making today's conversation a concrete document, which should be a document first in the form of a government decree, and then in the form of a law that provides for support for depressed regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u109	The word is given to the chariot of Mikola Dmitrovich. The next Zubanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Mikola's chariot, 34th constituency, Lviv district. Today, the report by the distinguished Valerius Ivanovich clearly identifies the depressed region in questions and speeches. In terms of this definition, the city of Yellow Waters in the Dnipropetrov region is a very typical example of the depressed region. Although it would have flourished today in view of its significance for Ukraine. Today, this city was also featured in Valery Ivanovich's report, and in my colleague Šibko's question, and this city is in the very city of my district. This city is unique because it is the only city in Ukraine that produces and processes uranium raw materials. Therefore, in view of the fact that the supply of nuclear fuel from Russia can stop in a matter of several years, and these are indeed the reasons, the Yellow Waters and, in particular, the Eastern Mining Coal combine have strategic significance for Ukraine. In the near future, it will need to create its own cycle of nuclear fuel production for nuclear energy without which Ukraine will not be missed, and in the Yellow Waters, technology and expertise are still needed. In addition, there are several military-industrial enterprises in the city, the Electron plant and the South Radio plant, which, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, have undergone conversions and are now able to produce high-tech products, such as telephone stations and so on. But because of the absence of orders, these companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. At present, the Dnipro National and Communication Systems, the Dnipro State Stock Exchange Holding Company, the Dniprov Machine Plant, which includes VAT, the South Radio Plant, have not been resolved by the Dniprov National and Communication Systems. Because of the practical stopping of these. The city is dying today. Young people go to work in other regions or abroad. Mortality is far greater than birth. Today, a third of the city’s inhabitants are pensioners, and to be exact, 54,000 residents are 18,000 pensioners and 14,000 are unemployed. The unemployment rate is 15 percent, and hidden up to 40, almost four times the average in Ukraine, is the highest in the Dnipropetrov region. The situation is also compounded by environmental tension in the region, and in many parts of the city, the radiation background is several times higher than the norm. In addition, there are practically ionizing sources of total activity of about 15,000 curries in the field at the Electrongaz company. Unless urgent measures are taken to bury these sources in the near future, the environmental disaster will not only threaten the city but also become a reality throughout the region. We can't keep quiet about the situation that happened around the Nova mine that stopped working last April, and it's been flooded ever since. As of March 26, the water began to flow into the mine trunk, which was the day of the sinking of the mine. Moulded with uranium, sulphides, chlorides, and experts in the U.S.S.S. state the increase and concentration of uranium in the Yellow River, which falls into the Ingulec River, which is the source of urban water supply. The situation is also complicated by the fact that there is virtually no direction on the mine. And at the same time, it's unclear that the position of the miners of the mine, the holding fund and the Ukrainian export resources, which, to all the appeals of the local district authorities, the people's deputies about the situation on the mine, make it look like nothing's going on. You're increasing everything and you're fine. At least the Ministry of Emergency Situations has a different opinion. I'm sorry, I still have time for a national deputy named Gavrish. Not surprisingly, in Yellowwater, there are much higher rates of malignancy, tuberculosis, birth abnormalities in children, and so forth. If in Ukraine the rate of primary retirement at working age for disability has decreased by 18 percent since 1995, Yellow Water has increased by 20 percent. Thus, even in the light of the general situation in the Yellow Water economy, there is a oppressive impression. As early as 1995, the government’s program of radiation and social protection for the population of Yellow Waters was a little more funded than 10 percent, and virtually not working today. In order to ensure a normal state of residence in the city and to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 20 April 2002, a new draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the approval of the programme of radiation and social protection for the population of the city of Yellow Water for 2003 - 2012. Regrettably, this draft decree has not yet been approved. On April 20 of the current year, another version of the program is scheduled on the government committee and there is hope that it will be approved. But to get the city out of a crisis situation, first of all, it requires the regeneration of productive capacities, businesses that have the necessary basic funds and still partially qualified personnel. In order to raise the level of production in the city, investment is needed, which will enable the production of new products and increase the production volume of active ones. In order to create an attractive investment climate in the city, there is a need for some positive conditions for potential investors. To this day, therefore, it is necessary to resolve the issue of the preparation and adoption of the special law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u111	How long do you need, tell me?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u112	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u113	Well, it's not possible either, you've taken two orders. Finish it. The word is given to Zubanov, and the next to Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u114	Honourable President, distinguished deputies, members of the Government. I am at risk of making a concrete proposal to address this problem. First. Of course, there must be a government programme. If the programme is to be specific, it should also include specific areas, specific cities. How do you define them? It is very difficult and long to pass the Law on Depressive Territories and Cities. So it's very easy to define. We are adopting the Budget Act 2003, which is a grant provided for in the Territory and for cities. If more than 100 bracelets are donated, for example, one resident is already a depressive city, it is included in the programme list. I asked Valery Ivanovich, "Is there a government programme to attract non-State resources for the development of depressive territories?" He told me that there was no such programme so far, because in order to attract non-State resources, it was necessary to create appropriate infrastructure in depressive cities. I want to question Valery Ivanovich's statement. The fact is that there is infrastructure in depressed cities, and it has not been completely broken in 10 years. There are railways, gas pipelines, power lines, hospitals, schools, there is a population that is provided with residential space and quite qualified. All of this needs to be used. It is clear that a State cannot deal with this problem. What's to be done? The resources of non-State enterprises, commercial enterprises, should be sought. That's enough in Ukraine, and you all know them. These are large enterprises, commercial firms and other organizations that are successfully developing, which have economic, financial and financial resources. The main thing is that they have ideas about how to develop their production. The main thing must now be done to ensure that they are interested in coming to depressed cities, into depressed territories and start developing them, creating jobs. How do you do that? This needs to be done through a national programme for specific cities with specific firms, involving the National Bank of Ukraine programme, which should, for a year, allocate credit resources through the same public “Ukreximbank” amounting to up to a billion dollars of grevens and specific lending to specific enterprises that wish and can develop depressed cities, provide them with long-term loans for 10-15 years, with a credit rate of no more than inflation there. Under specific programmes, it is possible to attract the resources of these firms, to create employment. I'm just saying. If such a programme works, the enterprise to which I relate is ready to start production for 500 workers in the same depressive town of Schachterske from the second half of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u115	Basil Hara, faction of Ukraine. Get ready for Simone instead of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u116	Dear colleagues! I could also talk about the problems of depressed regions because I live in Donbass. But there is only one aspect that I would like to address. The word and the case of the highest authorities of the State and the elimination of the extremely painful and dangerous phenomenon of territorial reprisals. It's a sign of the misery in the State and the tragedy of the people. Remember the year 2000. Message from the President of the Supreme Council on Ukraine's economic and social development strategy 2000-2004. Key regional policy tasks. Implementation of the incentive mechanism, socio-economic development of depressive regions. Delegation of part of the management functions of the regions. Reform of inter-budget relations since 2001 and so on. What's done? Nothing. On 25 May 2001, the President issued a decree approving the Concept of State Regional Policy. The Cabinet is mandated to ensure the implementation of the Concept. What's happening? Nothing. 29 July 2002 is very fast. Just one year later, Mineconomy woke up and made a broad recommendation in connection with the President's decree. What's happening? Nothing. In the Economic and Social Development Programme 2002 of Ukraine, the Economic and Social Development Programme set itself the task of implementing the State mechanism to promote the socio-economic development of regions and depressive territories. What's happening? Nothing. Last year, after the All-Ukrainian Meeting on Small Business Development, including, above all, in the depressed territories, the President instructed Kabmin to submit, by 1 October, high-priority bills that addressed small and medium-sized business issues. What's done? Nothing. Among other things, a number of activities related to depressed regions have been undertaken. It's nothing, either. We can continue with this list, as it was said and done, ending with the phrase “nothing”. But I think that the only conclusion is that regions in general are being asked, and the depressive territories are not particularly needed by the highest authorities of the State. You know, respected colleagues, it may be a bit harsh, but frankly, there has already been a misunderstanding of government officials of all times, types and sizes not only in depressed territories, but also the formation of Ukraine's middle class, which is supposed to lead a country out of destruction in civilized countries, the formation of a socio-oriented economy and so on and so forth. It's time for them to move on. The “Regions of Ukraine” faction, led by Ivan Fedorović Kuras, jointly with scientists and specialists, holds a permanent “round table” on regional development issues. Fundamental, scientifically sound proposals have been developed that must be adopted by the State and finally implemented for once in their lives. And more. Today, there is a very favourable situation in Ukraine where the Government is headed by a strong regional leader who is not aware of both the full range of regional problems and their solutions. The draft programme of the Government of Yanuković presents a strategy for the State approach to regional development, which will not only raise regional problems from the dead but will also create conditions for dynamic and balanced regional development. It's time to move on to what we're all calling for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u117	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, instead of Alexandrovsky, here is a note. Prepare Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, as you know, this issue of the development of depressed regions is being addressed by the Supreme Council on the initiative of the Communist faction. And when we analyze the information that the government has given us, as well as the information that the people's deputies are now making in their speeches, we need to make the main conclusion that these are the tragic consequences of the so-called radical reforms: criminal privatization of our public property, the destruction of agri-industrial and military complexes, the liberalisation of prices, the destruction of state regulation of the economy. There is a transformation, as a result, of the newly thriving and thriving cities of all the regions of our Ukraine with you: Donbas, Carpathians, West Ukraine, Crimea regions to the depressed, that is, the depressed territories, the extinction of entire cities and thousands of villages. Millions of people are out of jobs and often dense and livelihoods. I am surprised that the government, in an attempt to deceive once again the members of the Supreme Council, makes a comparison regarding 99, 98 in the year of the end of 1996. And whatever you do, it's the government officials, to compare with the 1990s that you would have today. And when we talk about depressed people, we have to answer, depressed because industry and agri-industrial complex have been destroyed, so they've become depressed. As a result, I feel that there is no need to predict the great mind, and we can see how this will end now. On the one hand, we see 22 million Ukrainian citizens in this so - called depression zone. They suffer, and why the term appears, as if today’s popular depression zone, because Ukraine has become a criminal zone, a zone of corrupt power, the world’s strongest corruption. And a citizen's area that is now being defined as depressing is a reservation, because today 22 million are being formed, and tomorrow there will be 40 million unemployed, hungry, naked, undressed people who are being used today as a cheap labor force to meet their own needs. I'd like to get my attention here, here are the government officials speaking, the economy minister sometimes shocks me. He's talking about one thing, and with another hand, he's closing 128 mines in Donbas. And when Donbas was making production, it was really an ecological, dangerous zone, because it's from manufacturing. And today, what's going on? The sinking of mines, the wetlands and the failures of soil, the spontaneous discharge of methane, the contamination of groundwater, which makes this socio-economic and environmental situation even more difficult. If we take the village the same way, I'm sorry, this is where my colleague was speaking to me, and I'm always comparing. Today, he says, “Depressed villages, and yesterday he adopted the Earth Codex. ” He supported a budget that destroys the village and much more. So let's get rid of your fellow Presidential majority of what you want for your own people. Two 28 rural settlements. That's what my colleague didn't say. Of them, 13,000. 700 closed schools today. How will it develop, this rural area? At 16,000. 700 closed the post office. How will it develop? Nine thousand. 400 Field Offices. Today, 420 villages no longer have drinking water, 240 villages are deserted, 5,000. The village is confined to the dying. What are you going to do then, ladies and gentlemen, when you vote with one hand for the destruction of the village, and today, let's say you're calling -- give the depressed zones, let's say, today to finance and do something to change the situation? I'm not talking about the military anymore. That's a terrible thing to do. And on the last two proposals. First of all, we need to do a comprehensive socio-economic analysis of these depressing cities and villages, build a database on trends in development and existence, and consider these territories today a disaster zone because our people live there. And secondly, because we're making a lot of specific proposals to the Communist faction. Secondly, I think immediately after this consideration, whatever they're doing here today, we need to stop privatizing immediately, because these small cities are going to be joined tomorrow by big cities, because they're destroying energy, a metallurgical complex, a coal sector, processing and a lot of other things. And the last thing about the village. I'm talking to the government. Dmitri Volodymyrovich, you represent the government today. How can we develop a village when today meat is purchased by five rubles or bracelets, and sausage is left with 20, 30, 50? But I'm sorry then, who's getting there? What is left to the depressed village or to those who have income today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u119	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u120	The Communist faction sees government activity as insufficient.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u121	Victor Turmanov. Prepare Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u122	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues and members of the Cabinet of Ministers! I was elected here by the inhabitants of one of the same depressed regions — the cities of Torez, Snowy, the village of the mining region of Donetsk, the usual mining settlements, once a well-being city worker in a short time turned into slums, the destinies of social poverty. The fact that I do, I don't fold paint, can be confirmed by sociological research. According to data in mining cities, only 47 per cent of the working population is employed, 68 in large cities and 73 per cent in Kiev. That's another indicator. Only 38 per cent of the inhabitants of mining towns are the main sources of income against 57 per cent in other cities of Ukraine. On the contrary, more than 66 per cent of those interviewed indicated social benefits as one of the main sources of income in mining cities, while only half of those living in other regions pointed to the source of income. These facts indicate that in the coal regions, especially in the areas of mass closure, the mines are simply not a financial source to form a local budget. The mine has been shut down, and all related infrastructure enterprises, organizations hanging in the service of these coal enterprises have died, including settlements, infrastructure, ATS, boilers, baths and other social facilities that are so essential in the daily lives of people. To date, 109 coal pretrials have been placed under closure. 51 Mines are already closed, physical liquidation, but not one of them is not completely closed, the social sphere is not passed on to local councils due to lack of funds. One reason for this situation is the clearly prolonged percentage of the endless reform of the coal industry. How many ministers are coming, so many are being reformed in the industry. And not one of them has been brought to an end. The destruction of the mines is destructive without taking into account the vital needs of the people and, above all, no one has been responsible. The most difficult situation has been and has become depressing cities: Snow, Torec, Déržinsk, Gorlovka, Enakievo, Selidivo Donetské oblast, Stahanov, Branka, Anthracit, Red Luch, Lisicansk, Kirov Lugansk oblast, Alexandria Kirovogradska, Novovolynsk Volynska. The industrial profiles of these cities are determined by one or two industries. In our view, the equally important reason for such a situation is that the insurmountable inefficiencies of the upper echelons of power in the current situation are insurmountable. The lack of understanding of the role of the coal industry in its domestic economy is almost without alternativeity as a source of energy. The fact that there are many politicians seeking to close the coal industry under various pretexts cannot be avoided. Clearing the road to import fuel. While Ukraine, as a coal producer, will disappear from the world map, saving $600 million in coal subsidies, Ukraine will have to spend more than $3 billion a year on its purchase. It is not possible to say today that the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, has taken the approach to closing mines, which are designed to minimize the costs of the main objective of addressing the remaining tasks separately. This means that the barrels were put to sleep, people were fired, and their minimum compensation was paid. What about the miners? What's going to happen to mining towns? Someone doesn't care. Many colleagues have therefore raised questions and referred proposals here today. I believe that today's debate of the Supreme Council is ripe; it is very much under discussion by my colleagues; we need to take a serious decision by the Supreme Council on this issue; we certainly need to adopt the Ukrainian Law on the Frameworks for the Promotion of Urban and Regional Development, which provides for the granting of benefits for the taxation of enterprises that create jobs for the unemployed, especially in mine closure zones. Of course, we need to develop and adopt a provision on the status of depressive cities and settlements in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u123	Alexy Korsakov, faction of the Ukraine region, prepare for Savitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the Government. 50 constituency, "Regions of Ukraine", Korsakov Alexei. The state and further development of depressive regions and cities is indeed the problem that cannot be resolved further. Here are some examples to begin with. The constituency I represent includes two other cities: Kirovska and Zdanovka, two different cities with common problems. The main sector on which the economies of these cities are based and, consequently, the well-being of the inhabitants, which is coal-producing. The production rate is more than 90 per cent. From year to year, owing to difficult mountain-geological conditions, insufficient funding, a number of other problems, coal production, cost increases, many mines are currently undergoing bankruptcy. As a result of this underdevelopment in budgets at all levels, payroll, urban social collapse, and increased social tensions. And what to do is to fill the city's urban treasury if mines account for more than 90 per cent of the budget income, and among the residents of one third of the pensioners, the unemployment rate exceeds 5 per cent and there is hardly any other job for the working population. I won't get any more of your attention, it's a typical painting, you know very well about it. At the same time, Ukrainian legislation does not currently have a law governing the development of depressive territories, although this problem is reflected in government policy documents. There is, in my opinion, an interesting draft of the relevant law being drafted by Alexander Mikhailovich Volkov, although the project still needs to be worked on. I therefore believe that to date, first of all, we need to develop a criterion on which the status of the depressive territory will be determined. Secondly, to define and specify the arrangements for the granting of tax benefits, targeted government loans to make these territories attractive to investors, to create an enabling environment for small and medium-sized enterprises. In terms of the region that I represent, one solution to this problem may be the implementation of a State programme for the processing of secondary raw materials of coal-based production. Analyses show that up to 30 percent of coal is in mine dumps, and coal mining itself can serve as a building material, such as sand. In addition, the construction of a large number of transport corridors in Ukraine will require a large number of materials. Thus, with the assistance of the Government in addressing these problems, we will be able to improve the situation by creating new jobs, making payments to budgets at all levels and addressing social problems. Today we have to face the problems of depressive cities and regions, and tomorrow it will be much more difficult to recover what we are losing so recklessly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u125	Valentin Savitsky, European Choice MP. Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u126	Savicsky 67, Novograd Volinsky constituency. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, colleagues, parliamentary hearings The question raised at parliamentary hearings today is vital. The very depressed regions urgently need immediate assistance, both from the government and the Supreme Council. I'd like to stop at the development of the territory of the Region of Žitomir. This is a level-of-security region, and the integrated natural resource potential refers to the poor. Land and forest resources are the main ones. At the same time, nearly 26 percent of the agricultural land and 53 percent of the forests after the CHAES accident were in the zone of radioactive pollution. In addition, the low natural fertility of land under conditions of the unregulated market has significantly affected the decline in the competitiveness of the region’s agriculture. It is clear to all that investing in agricultural production on black soils is much more advantageous than in poor Polish soils, but what to do to the police regions that, without the State's active support, are not able to solve this issue on their own. The industrial potential of the region and the economy and the industrial industry is determined by the mining and processing industry, which is raw and mainly intermediate and low-tech production. It is very painful that the production capacity of 11 mills is now used on average by 10 percent. Half of them don't work at all. In the last 10 years, production has dropped 34 times, the industry has become unprofitable, and the rate of damage to the primary processing of flax in 2002 has been 73 percent. The same is true of the meat industry. In 2001, there were only two businesses. The available production capacity of meat-processing enterprises is used by 9 percent, and such powerful production, which was in the Barranian porcelain plant, is at a very low level. The stone - clairvoyant plant has been running for many years. At the same time, in the last 8 years, agricultural farming has not been profitable for a year, and last year it has reached 17 percent. The share of the industry’s damage is 76 percent, so the unemployment rate in the region from 1998 to 2001 is 5.8 percent to 8.1 percent, which corresponds to the worst in the region. For reasons that are not clear from year to year, there is a sharp decline in centralized state capitals for the implementation of the Chernobyl construction program and the minimization of the consequences of the CHAES disaster. In 2002, only 7.9 percent of the projected funds were allocated to radiological protection and ecological recovery of the area from the state budget. By the beginning of 2002, the country’s rural gasification rate was 19 percent, with Ukraine 27 percent. The narrowing of social opportunities in the area is reflected in the demographic situation. In the area of population reduction, it is slightly higher than the average in Ukraine: in the area of 3.1, in Ukraine - 2.2. These processes distort the structure of the labour potential. Part of the poor population reached 45.3 per cent. In all 23 regions, this is higher than the average in Ukraine. This requires the development and consideration of a bill to stimulate the development of depressed regions. Without an active national regional policy on the development of depressive regions, the decline in economic and social disparities cannot be said for Ukraine’s membership in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u127	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. A weak faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today, in general, the correct question of the form of its absolute content has the wrong direction that we would like to have. Well, first of all. Our Government's misrepresentation of the experience of Western European countries. I don't know what this Cabinet of Ministers statement was for, but there are contradictions, literally, on the first list. Note: "The reduction and progressive elimination of inter-regional differences in levels of development is the main task of regional policy in most European countries." I mean, first of all, it's not about any of the depressing zones that exist today that are totally in Ukraine, but it's about regional policy and reducing differences. Today, we are discussing exactly how to make more of these “differences” just by insisting that everyone representing a city or a place from his constituency is special, and therefore it requires some specific approach by the State. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers stresses that in Ukraine interregional deference has increased in the process of transition to the market and in the case of economic crises. That's the first question. And the second one I'd like to draw your attention to. Today, we feel that the solution to this problem is what it is. Not only through budgeting, funding, etc., but also through the creation of free economic zones. And so today we have these 23 free economic zones. Tell me, which one of you can remember what question today, which one? And this area was created just to solve these issues, to solve depression issues, and so on, which area today has at least one question solved. Here we have today, according to these free economic zones that have a depression zone and who have freedom in the free economic zone. So I think today's main task is not to discuss how to do it in a specific place, and here in Parliament we have to decide on a state-wide program and if we have to admit that the whole country is in depression today, it's not to reflect our policy that it should be a depressing budget, that it should be a depressing program of government that is going to be aimed at solving all issues at a state-wide level. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u129	Dear colleagues! Let's talk about it. We've already agreed for an hour and a half. We've been working for an hour and a half. We still have six national MPs on file. We still need to hear information from the head of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Huh? Wait a minute. Who insists on the performance? Please, one minute please, come on. Because time is running out. Please, Sergey Shevchuk. Time's up. I've been asking questions about the position of the people's deputies. I'm asking the National Deputies, but you pay attention to the assistants when they're preparing the materials for you, it's three minutes, not six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! There are two main points about the question. on the problem of depressive areas. The first is that the emergence of depressive areas, regions, cities are caused by the overall unmet socio-economic development of the state and, in some places, these problems have become more acute, and once again, only in solving the problems of state-wide depressive areas will they be solved automatically. In doing so, they refer to the experiences of countries such as Portugal or East Germany, where it was complex, not point - by - point, to the problem of the backlog of a territory. A second point of view is the integration of national policies for regional development and the initiatives of local communities. And she has a lot more followers. In this connection, the faction of the People's Democratic Party draws attention to the urgency of the development and adoption of the Ukrainian law on the approval of a state-wide small city development programme. Our faction will support the draft decree by the author of Desert and Nemirowski, in which the Cabinet of Ministers is tasked with developing changes to the budget code, which establishes a tax system for the formation of small cities' budgets. What is it? It is about sending for the stated goals, first of all, 20 per cent of the income tax on enterprises located in small cities, 50 per cent of the income tax on non-state-owned enterprises, 100 per cent of the taxes on all newly created enterprises during the first three years of their activities, as well as the income tax on citizens and land payments. Some say it's too revolutionary. But we answer: of Ukraine's 350 small cities, only in the 22nd in the last three years, there have been positive increases in production. Everyone else is depressed. And 111 of them are monofunctional, that is, most people work in one or two businesses, and they can't see the enlightenment. From the former republics of the Soviet Union there is one state that is ahead of the post-Radians -- Estonia. And if you look at the priorities that the Estonian government has taken in the last year, these are the priorities: firstly, increased financial support for local self-government and increased pensions and growth in the economy, with particular emphasis on small and medium-sized enterprise development. That is why we want to state that without local self - government, governments and capital ministers alone will not be able to overcome the problems of depressed territories. Today, many suggestions have been made on the part of the chief reporter and national MPs, if any of the above are done in some way, then depression will gradually disappear as the main syndrome of Ukraine’s niece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u131	George Manchulenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u132	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, Ukrainian People's Party, faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Head, distinguished colleagues and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. Allow me to inform you in accordance with the order of the day regarding the situation and problems in the mountain district of Putin. Considering that all the settlements in this area, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Status of Mountain Settlements, have mountain status, it is now essential at the national level to ensure the full implementation of this law. Because it is in the area of addressing the pressing socio-economic problems of life-sustainment of such villages that this law is virtually not implemented. For example, on the basis of article 3, paragraph 1, of the law, the support and development of the network of communication, television, and electricity should be made available at public expense. However, there are eight television broadcasters operating in villages. , Podzaharichi, Rostoke, Marenichi, Plaska, Longpool, Sheptit, Selatin are in debt for electricity consumption on March 15, this year, 86 thousand 787 dollars, and are in danger of being shut down from electricity. In this way, the inhabitants of the mountains may not be able to watch television. My repeated appeals to the relevant ministries and observatories about the problem are accompanied by formal receipts. We need active assistance from the Cabinet of Ministers. Next problem. Today, it is extremely difficult in mountain conditions to cultivate and feed large cattle. Moreover, purchase prices for cattle are too low and prolonged delays are allowed on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers to pay subsidies for the large cattle of magnificent condition. During the past year, 129 entities of various organizational and legal forms need to be paid in the amount of 37 000,700 dollars. My calls to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Minister of Agrarian Politics have been answered with promises. I believe that the Cabinet needs to change its approach to solving problems in this area. The Putil district has a natural and historical cultural potential for the development of a tourist recreation complex. But it requires substantial State support, for example, to build roads with solid coatings. Because of the economic conditions prevailing today in the Putil region, there is a forest sector, forest management, cooking, and woodworking. However, the arrangement of an expanded process of wood processing and final production, the distribution of the forest fund only among forest users in the area, would allow the creation of additional jobs, virtually minimum unemployment, and a significant reduction in government payments to those in the district employment center. And for example. 1,372 persons or 22.7 percent of the district’s working population have received social benefits in the last three months for unemployment of $247 000,200. State-level active financial support needs to be replaced since 2005 by wheeled and purchased and installed wood mills. [[I'm done. That's where they took the rules.]] During the implementation of the cost-effective non-traditional sources of energy supply, wind power in mountain populated areas, since the supply of electricity to consumers from a substation 20 miles [20 km] away leads to significant non-productive losses and reduces the efficiency of its use. As a result of the search for geological exploration work in the village of Putiliv district’s arat, it has been discovered that the marble has been stockpiled for 150 years. [[I'm done.]] Much of the relevant documentation has been produced for the development of these decks. Yet, to equip the roadways, to acquire the necessary equipment without public investment in this important matter, there is no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u133	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u134	One more minute, I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u135	Turn off the microphone. Yes, one minute at a time, Rudzkowski, Orzhachowski, and Frost. Please, time's up, well, you four minutes. Two sentences, finish, you say one more minute. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u136	An excellent example of the problems that exist in mountain areas. A similar problem exists with the Eminent and the Eminent. Although not mountainous, the Tibetan region has many other problems that need to be solved with the help of the state, and these are primarily Chernobyl issues, including the problem of the new Acid. I hope that the Cabinet of Ministers will face up to the problems of the depressed areas, helping to solve the problems in both 203 districts and the state as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u137	Please, Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u138	Rudzkowski, Socialist Party, Chernigovishte. Dear National Deputies, distinguished members of the Cabinet of Ministers, I will not say much on the subject of the difficult economic situation in Montenegro, but I would like you to see, in developing the program, that there is such a very big problem in this region, this is the town of Slavic with the corresponding situations around the Chernobyl nuclear power station and the north of Montenegro, this is the poorest area of Ukraine, Montenegro, Žitomyrščina. Even in Soviet times, living standards were too low, now they're just poor. And so by developing the program and putting in a budget for the next year, I ask you to pay attention to that and direct the funding towards this region in a targeted direction. And separately around the city of Chernig, I'm asking you to pay attention, because there's a decline in production right now when we're talking about growth in the whole area, both in the radio plant, on autodetails and in the man-wolf. There's a factory where 7,000 people work. We can take down the entire district center if we don't help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u139	Anatoly Frost, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u140	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. I would like to draw the attention of the government to the following points. The information is very good about the depressing, although we really do not have such a term, it can be called that we have repressed areas, cities and villages of the urban type, the village according to the policy that is being pursued today by the government. Attention is also drawn, I think, very rightly, to the fact that the government understands that the economic, social situation in small towns in Ukraine is mostly related to the economic situation of the structural enterprises that are mostly bankrupt today. But there is little going on with us today after the bankruptcy. I've made many speeches from the Supreme Council in the Southern Dizremash, Zaporozhye district, Tokmak city. The company is the only one unique in Ukraine for two years in a state of rehabilitation, and today the government is doing nothing to bring it out. And yet there were 10,000 workers, today a thousand 200. A thousand 400 diesels were produced today, 68 last year. Do you understand what's going on? Without it, of course, the city is dying. Well, the next moment. We really need to make changes to the Budget Code, to the Earth Code. And as for the budget, we have to distribute it, probably more for the benefit of these repressed regions, so to speak, and not for the benefit, we're going to talk, more of our capital, even though we all live and love and respect it, but also to rob the province, these cities and villages, of course, that's how we're going to get there, of course, that's nowhere. And you're draft laws that are about government information, and it's clear that they have to be adopted as quickly as possible, but the main thing is that these laws have to be implemented because they've adopted programs, they've passed laws and they're not being implemented today. And there's a lot to talk about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u141	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Unfortunately, during the time I've been given, I can't raise that circle of questions that might reflect the real situation in Hersonian, and I would like to say by name this region about the problems that exist, so I would like to draw attention to a few moments of government from the question that is being considered today. First. It is desirable that our authorities and perhaps we national deputies do their utmost to avoid conflict at the level of local councils and executive authorities. I mean, I should think about how to make changes to the Budget Code, because unfortunately, in urban communities in rural, rural communities under different circumstances, district councils, district administrations are taking between 500,000 and sometimes several million. And here is the conflict in Hersonian today in the city of Skadowski, in the city of Borislav and some others. The other one. I would like to make it clear that the crash took place. The state has taken responsibility for supporting many construction organizations, industrial enterprises, and so forth, which have helped the village survive, and today, unfortunately, they cannot help the village survive because they say they are stocked, they need to think about how to help them. Next. I think we need to go back to a problem that has not been solved in our country for many years. This is the repayment of the debt to businesses, to organizations that have built socio-cultural buildings in the countryside. Big sums, today these companies could give. They need a boost and they would be reborn and they could help, and unfortunately they can't do that because the state owed them, especially in Hersonian. And the last. I would like, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to return again with a parliamentary address on the problems of a town-type village called Brilovka. This is a specific village of former pollinators, and today Dmitr Vladimirovich and I have already had a conversation about the problem of the village of the Great Lepeticha in terms of, say, the destruction of the floods of the pedestrian bridge, and I think that the rest of the Hersonian region still needs to be able to find the funds for the trouble of submerging and so on, we have been able to solve it comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u143	Let's finish the question. Please, Dmitri Volodymyrovich Tobacco, Vice Prime Minister. Drought from the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I would like to thank you for considering this issue, saying that a very important problem has been discussed today, and we can be sure that the current mechanism for solving the problems of depression is not effective enough. There are both objective and objective reasons. Most approved programs were not fully implemented and due to underfunding, both by the government and by local authorities, and generally the problem is that the local authorities, by approving these programs, are trying to significantly overestimate spending, including funding from the state budget for a very large number of objects that are causing the cost to be disbursed. We also in the Cabinet of Ministers understand that a valid state policy to support the development of depressive areas should be more systematic and more effective in terms of achieving results, i.e. overcoming the depression of the territories. To this end, the government has been prepared for the Supreme Council's consideration of the draft Law, which has already been discussed, on the principles of promoting regional development. And we hope that this bill will make a significant contribution to the development of these areas. It also seemed to me that, in order to successfully solve the problem of the depressed areas of small cities, and that is what many national deputies have talked about today in terms of creating an appropriate legal field, it is worth paying attention to the draft law approving the general government programme for the development of small cities. I will not repeat this, but there are also a number of bills in the government that will help me solve the problems of depression and stimulate their development. Among them are the draft laws of Ukraine on basic principles for granting State budget subsidies for investment projects. A new edition of Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government, on Local Government Administrations, on Distinguishing State and Municipal Property. We look forward to working actively with the Supreme Council. I want to thank once again all the national MPs who have spoken on today's Government Day, and that when we consider these bills we will be able to find common approaches to solving the problems of the depressive areas that will contribute to these common approaches, to consolidating the efforts of the Supreme Council and the executive power in this direction. Thank you once again to all participants for discussing this issue, and I believe that the fact that the Head of the Supreme Council has raised such an important issue in the past probably in the years of the work of the independent parliament of Ukraine. It will help to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u145	Mr. Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u146	Thank you. Gurenko, Communist faction, head of the Economic Policy Committee. I wanted to support everything that Dmitri Vasilovich said, in principle. And I think to stop at just these moments, we have a small city development programme that's already being discussed and it's at the first reading stage, and the other bills that are going through our committee are going to be considered and proposed for adoption as soon as possible. I just wanted to draw your attention, Dmitri Vasilovich, to the fact that on June 15th, under the Budget Code, the deadline for the submission of a bill on the allocation of budgets at district and village level ends. And by June 15, the government should be asking this, that's an important question. Two more moments, in terms of, in terms of. One is that the government needs to be determined by its policy on special funding regimes, because today we have one, and tomorrow we have another, today the minority relies on how positive the experience is, and at other councils it's about the fact that the zones are all closed. That's the first one. And the second. I think it would be helpful. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in the process of preparing the budget in 2004, should nevertheless make parliamentary hearings on the source of the state budget. Enough talking! We need to talk openly here at the community level about sources that are not used to fill the budget. They're famous. And so the government doesn't tell us anymore, there's no money, there's no money! I think if we get so attached to this question, maybe something of it will come out at least next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u147	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! So let's finish the question. I just want to take a few words to conclude. I think it's the right thing to do about what we need to define in terms, because we juggle terms, and then it doesn't get any better. What's "depressive"? What is a "weakly developed" region and all that? Obviously, indicators will have to be placed as the basis. Regional statistics in many countries tend to take into account the level of economic development in the region, including per capita GDP. Unfortunately, the State Committee of Statistics doesn't calculate this. And then we don't have a complete picture. Although speaking in the regions, national MPs were speaking here, the picture is oppressive. You can take the gross added value and index of industrial production. If we take these two indicators and look at our situation in Ukraine, we're going to see that we're going to have a process of increasing the differentiation between regions, and we're going to see that the difference between socio-economic regions is so great that there's a threat of irreversible processes. And the calculations that I asked the economists to prepare are so sketchy, they showed that it's not possible to align the regions of Ukraine with socio-economic development in an affordable broad perspective in 20-30 years without the adoption of the cardinal measures. We find that today, and in the government's reporting materials and information materials, that we have 27 districts and two cities of Sevastopol and Kiev, 20 are depressing. That is, the whole country is depressed. Once again, I wanted to emphasize that we need a clear definition of problem areas, depressed regions, underdeveloped regions, and economical areas, and Ukraine, as you know, has 17 specific features. It's too bad that we've had a lot of constants here, first of all, from the government, it's not just about what we're going to do in terms of modernizing manufacturing, diversification, conversion, stimulating small and medium-sized business development, improving investment attractiveness, and finding new markets. We talked about what we need to make changes to the budget, obviously we need to do this, but first of all we need to hold parliamentary hearings and look at the income part of our budget, it's clearly underestimated. And the fact that we are successfully doing our budget with no tension today shows that we have huge reserves. And one more moment. We are obviously very excited that we are beginning to apply our legislation to the situation under way. If we talk about destroyed regions and we enter the legal definition of destroyed regions. We need to come out clearly from how we can adopt laws to work for the situation to grow. And we will obviously need to look at our decision from that point of view, even though we cannot solve all the problems in the decision. And the fact that we've considered this question, I think it shows that today it's not just a pain, it's a burning problem. And we obviously need to anticipate a return to this subject at the very point of view that's been made to implement those proposals, the comments that sounded today on the government day. Decisions will be made taking into account the discussion on the day of the vote. We agreed with Boris Illich that tomorrow, we'll take the time, because there's no possibility anymore and there's no point, and the important decisions were taken at PARE and we'll, I think, take the time and listen tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-04-08-m0.u148	Let's hear it tomorrow. I would like to say before declaring the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed that the next plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on April 11th, "On the state of compliance with legislation on the issue of private property rights to land, certificates on land and circulation, on compliance with Ukrainian legislation on the use and circulation of agricultural land," and tomorrow, at 10 a.m., we will begin the parliamentary hearing of "The reform of the political system in Ukraine, the purpose and conceptual principles of constitutional change." Please take an active part. Morning meeting, 10:00 tomorrow. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you for being a part of the job.
