ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[16:02:07]] Registered -413 To - 413. Sorry, it's registered in the hall, it's for the budget, yeah. There were 413 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. We continue our consideration of matters according to the schedule of meetings. It's being announced. Let me ask you a question, then from the procedure. Announcing the subject. Well, now, one minute, wait. Draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 We agreed on this procedure: a half-hour report by the Minister of Finance and the First Vice-Prime Minister. One minute, I'll finish. And 20, sorry, 20 minutes a report, 15 minutes an answer to a question, for a co-report of 15 and 10, then an argument from the authors who made the draft inadmissibility decrees. And then we move on to the voting procedure. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, at ten o'clock in the morning, the faction of "Our Ukraine" insisted that a list of missing MPs be announced and that the cards of those in the hall whose cards are working and who are actually missing. Please provide the information we have been promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u3	I, Adam Ivanovich, please, was in charge, and I will now find out and provide the information. Yeah, well, right now, we're not going to vote yet. Kowala has all the lists. The leader of the Apparatus gave Kowala all the lists. Please, ask him. Gmira, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u4	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have no idea what we're going to be discussing right now. But this morning we were considering the law. The Deputy Prime Minister of Azarov said that the law provided for 2.5 billion, which were included in the budget. We failed the law. As we now consider the budget, it is not balanced. Vladimir Mikhailovich, can you explain to me what we're going to be looking at?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u5	It's the Prime Minister. We were interested in that question. He'll give you an answer. Please, Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u6	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, two questions. Indeed, the law is not adopted 400-1. So 2.5 billion now needs, I get it, minus the income part of the budget. So we can't accept this budget because it's unbalanced. Or let the government again give us some explanation for this. And the second question is again to you, at minimum wage. I'm going to raise that question all the time. Let's work this out. A completely different bill was put to the vote than the bill was signed. And that may not even be the trouble of what they voted on yet, but it may be a tragedy for the future if the Supreme Council votes on some bills and the leadership signs a completely different one. I demand that the draft budget be examined, including with the Rules Committee, that a bill on minimum wage be put forward by members of the Council and others, and that it be signed and sent to the President for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u7	Please, Mikli Janovich. I invite you to the rostrum of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine. 20 minutes to report and 15 minutes to answer questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft State Budget Act 2004 was submitted by the government for second reading, completed, based on the budgetary conclusions of the Supreme Council and the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the draft law. Practically all economically sound and balanced proposals made by the factions of the national MPs are taken into account. Each stage in the drafting and processing of this document to second reading was aimed at consolidating joint efforts, engaging in its discussion of the public with a view to achieving its balance and reality, i.e. ensuring the social orientation of the budget, concentrating budgetary resources on key socio-economic development, avoiding its dispersal, reducing tax burden and non-discrimination., continuing the practice of decentralization of budgetary resources in the formulation of the budget, first and foremost, in order to fill the budgets of all levels and economical, efficient spending of budgetary resources, balanced debt policies, consistent policies on decentralization of budgetary resources and increasing the physic weight of local budgets, while increasing the forecasting of the income part of the budget was the main objective of not allowing fiscal pressure to be increased to sustain and sustain the real economy. As a result, income from first reading increased by 2.5 billion, and the State budget by 2.5 billion, as well. I mean, it's zooming in. the income portion took place exclusively on the basis of sources secured by the State Budget. And I'm going to point out right now, this is the maximum possible increase. Note this. I see as the people's deputies, especially the opposition is suffering from budgetary problems. In the context of tax reform, which is primarily aimed at reducing fiscal burdens, not only has it been preserved, but the trend towards increasing the income portion of the budget has also been increased. But we don't have the right to set parameters that create. the balance of the country's state finances next year. That's why the income part of the budget is increased. First. It's an environment of macro indicators of economic and social development. The country’s economy, Ukraine, continues to develop in a much better scenario than previously predicted. And the slowdown at the end of the year, which was predicted when the budget process began, did not take place. On the contrary, current trends indicate an increase in economic stability. The main changes took place in terms of nominal GDP, the consumer price index of the Labour, Export, Goods and Services Fund. I would like to give the opponents an immediate answer that the structure of our GDP, unfortunately, does not allow for an adequate increase in taxes when GDP increases. We see that exports of goods are increasing, and this leads to an increase in the amount of VAT export compensation. At the same time, such an increase can only be achieved in a complex with a view to tax laws. So at the same time as budgeting was being established under the conditions of current legislation, the Supreme Council was being calculated and proposed to actually compensate the sources of budgeting for all the levels that were approved by you, the honourable people's deputies, in the first reading. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s proposal to install auction proceeds of licences for the use of natural gas-exporting naphthas, increased rates of payments for the use of public value drums, was also taken into account. As a result of the regulation of legislation and macroeconomic changes, income figures have been increased, particularly at a value added tax of more than 1 billion dollars, mainly for imported goods in Ukraine. In addition to increasing the resources of the State budget, some types of previously planned expenditure were reduced in line with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, the cost of public debt service, the publication of an administrative building for the placement of public authorities, and other non-priority expenses. What were some of the approaches taken in refining the budget’s expenditure? The main goal was to preserve the social orientation of the budget in combination with its investment component. We believe that in the context of tax reform at the same time, the need to solve the problem of value added tax, the implementation of pension reform, the reform of the defence complex, the increase in minimum wage, the resolution of housing and utility problems, we have done so to a large extent. I'll stop at the brightest moments. Fifty - two percent is such a social component of the project. When it comes to second reading, social spending is increased by 1.1 billion in comparison with the first reading. So the social expenditure of the consolidated budget for 2004 is going to go up overall against the current year by 5.1 billion dollars. Compared to the actual amount of expenditure in 2002, the increase is almost 9 billion dollars. That's your answer, Your Honor, to blame the government for its antisocial budget. And then how do you call this budget not social? According to the second reading, it is proposed that additional resources be channelled towards such priority programming measures as the restoration of pay-as-you-go ratios and the addition to the minimum wage of budget workers -- over 1 billion dollars; and compensation for the loss of local budgets -- 600 million dollars. Subsidy of the State Budget for Prejudice of Technological Disasters -- 400 million dollars, repayment of debt from wages to coal miners, which resulted from the underfinancing of the corresponding budgetary assignments -- four years -- 300 million dollars, free of charge to supply coal to the population -- 200 million dollars, state budget subsidies to local budgets to help families with children, low-income families and disabled persons from childhood, 170 million dollars from children with disabilities, the provision of military personnel -- 240 million dollars, the information of general educational institutions, which has never been done before, the computerization of rural schools -- 56 million dollars, the state support and reconstruction of coal and peat mining. Within the framework of the revised budget, we have put in place real resources to build positive trends this year in social security financing. The following year, it is anticipated that the total debt of past years of social character will be paid to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, 254 million dollars -- total repayment of debt to miners from regressive lawsuits and one-time job losses, 500 million dollars -- progressive compensation for loss of money savings, 100 million dollars -- repayment of arrears over the past years from the provision of solid fuel and subsidies as subsidies from the local government budget. For the first time, not only has housing provision been increased to provide State social assistance to low-income families, but it is also proposed to set differentiated levels of subsistence allowance for different types of population. This will allow for an average increase of 20 to 30 percent in state social assistance for low-income families. and thus compensate for the increase in the price of bread and medicine. In doing so, this rate will increase by 10 to 20 percent in helping families with their children and helping children with single - parent families. Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for your decision to establish a new size and step-by-step increase in the minimum wage, to establish an economically and socially based minimum wage with a step-by-step approach to the minimum wage is one of the main tasks of the government's action programme towards improving the quality of life of the population. But the real effect of such measures can only be combined with further reforming the pay system, increasing its stimulating role, overcoming the artificial undervalue of the workforce. The projected increase in minimum social security guarantees will give impetus to man’s dynamic and harmonious development. That is why, based on the real potential of the budget and the pace of economic development, a step-by-step increase in minimum wage is proposed. Starting on March 1, 2004, there will be a re-establishment of inter-qualificational, inter-employment relationships in the salaries of budget workers, resulting from the minimum wage of 205 dollars. Such measures will be a real step towards a proportionate and step-by-step increase in the current size of wages in the economy as a whole, as well as in the budgetary sphere. Since March 1st, tariff rates will rise by 10 to 11 percent, thus avoiding undue convergence in the payment of unskilled work and the work of professionals, i.e. stimulating intellectual work. And most importantly, they are backed up by the real resources of the budget. In order to ensure this direction, the amount of work costs is increased by 3.3 billion dollars next year compared to the current year. Next. Work has been done on a more detailed balance of regional budgets. When the draft law was finalized prior to its second reading, the additional financial resources of the local general budget fund, taking into account the additional cost of salary and other expenditure taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers, as well as the funding of capital and social expenditure financed by subsidies, increased from 26.7 billion under the first-reading option to 28.6 billion according to the second-reading indicators. This rate is increasing by 4 billion dollars compared to the current year. Differential coefficients have been applied to increase incentives to raise the income of the local budgets. For local budgets that have reached an average increase in income, accounted for in the determination of inter-budgetary transfers over the previous three years at 45 per cent and 75 per cent, between 15 per cent and 40 per cent of the funds that were to be allocated to the State budget of Ukraine under the previous conditions. Overall, local budgets will increase education costs by 15 percent compared to the current year, health care by 15 percent, culture and art by 36 percent, physical culture and sports by 14 percent. We dealt separately with the cost of restoring the employment of cultural workers at full cost, the cost of health workers at night, the introduction of landowners in rural areas to the states of local self - government. In addition, there has been an increase of 100 million dollars in the cost of medicines in public health institutions. More than two times in comparison to 2003, there has been an increase in the amount of additional subsidies to compensate for imbalances resulting from imbalances in the network of budgetary institutions. As a result of this consideration of the findings and proposals of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there has been an increase in grants to all local budgets and a corresponding reduction in the amount of removals from local budgets. The social orientation of local budgets for the following year is demonstrated by the structure of local budget estimates where education and health care account for almost 80 percent of the total. In addition, the structure of transfers from the State budget to local budgets is also structured according to the principle. Social subsidies and additional subsidies are linked to the dispersion of the network of socio-cultural institutions, accounting for 37 per cent of the total volume of transfers. The budget of the following year is no longer the first month at the centre of social attention. And we've repeatedly noted that this project has an investment component. Based on the actual figures, I want to prove that there is an increase in the social orientation of the budget. One of the most visible in this respect is the dynamics of capital expenditure. I'm underlining all the capital costs. The amount of capital expenditure of the General Fund for the following year is 4.6 billion dollars 4 times higher than in 2001. Is it not evidence that the investment innovation component of the budget is increasing? And I'll go back to discussing the bill. Not once in a discussion are questions about government debt in terms of the amount of borrowing. I want to stress, we have to use all the current debt instruments, but do it professionally. In doing so, the government compensated for the failure of the budget in December 2002. Already this year, the steady filling of the income part of the budget, the successful placement of state securities in the external markets of the capital, allows the government to pursue a more effective policy on the term of circulation and the income of government borrowing. If previously the State's borrowing market has been built on the need to fill the budget, this year we have ensured a significant reduction in the level. interest rates. They are long - term. The increase in investment ratings gives us reason to count on the next year to replace expensive borrowings from past years with cheap new loans. That is, not to place the burden of debt service on the budget, but simply to make the world’s natural overpayments. Actually, it's a path that's used in all of the civilized world. A balanced debt policy and a stable economic growth, according to expert estimates, will result in a positive shift towards a decline in debt load, which is now gradually declining. Yes, if the ratio of government direct and guaranteed debt to GDP was more than 60 percent by the end of 1999, the figure is projected to be much lower by the end of 2004. I mean, the state's financial security parameters are improving. In summary, I note that the approval of the budget by Parliament means that there is a prospect of fruitful cooperation between the various political forces to implement a real and balanced budget in 2004. I propose to accept this budget in a second reading as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u9	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, questions. Please sign up for a question to Deputy Prime Minister Mikoli Janović Azarov. Please sign up. On the board. Yes, Hennaday Rudenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] Next is Basil Nadra asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u10	Thank you. Mikola Janović, here's a question for you. When the government decided that more than 200 million dollars from selling licenses per nadra would be included in the budget. What the government was doing, what the government was doing, because there is no such practice at the moment. Or we'll get into a situation where, frankly, we're out of nothing. To be honest, there's not going to be 250 million dollars from zero. It's just propaganda, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u11	This is a proposal that was supported in the first reading by the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We've reduced the sum of the congregation using surrogates, against the proposal voted on in the first reading, significantly, and there's a resource not 200 million, but much less. That is why we have been forced to do something within the framework of the proposals that have been voted on, and we will see.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u12	Yes, Basil Nadrag, faction. MPs, excuse me, People's Choice. Next, Orestes Klimpus will ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u13	Dear Nikolai Janović, I am interested in the social component of the budget. Please tell me, if I understand correctly, today's issue is that the debts owed to the past years will be repaid in 2004. Next question. Regression lawsuits to miners. What is the amount of debt owed to coal miners in the 2004 budget for the regression claims of past years? And the last. Question for 2003. When capital construction funding for the 2003 budget is completed. To date, 75 per cent have been given up, and I have in Luhansk, in part, to stop the construction of a children's clinic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u14	Thank you for asking. On November 1, the amount of regressive mining claims to miners was about 254 million dollars. We put it in full volume. Moreover, from this rostrum I tell you on behalf of the government and tell the people of Ukraine: there will be no social debt next year in the government. Next year, we will pay off total social debt. And those who vote against the budget today will vote against the payment of social debt to our population. The same applies to Chernobyl debts. This year we have significantly reduced these debts. And for the coming year, these debts are completely eliminated. Finally. investment. To date, 75 per cent of the government budget for capital investments has been funded. They will be fully funded in December 1st. How this corresponds to the budget schedule for this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u15	Orest Klimpush, National Authority MP. Cage Grigory is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u16	Dear Mikolo Janovich! Our People's Government Group highly appreciates the efforts made by the government to take into account the wishes of the people's deputies. Yet, the masses remained unaccounted for. Please say, in this much improved budget, there is no room for funding again, to raise funding for the Mountain Human Settlements Act. I wanted to ask you if you have any of these reserves, can you promise that this issue will come to the government's attention and it will be funded as it should be? Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u17	The distinguished Oreste Dmitryevich, unfortunately, has remained unresolved in the budget. We are talking about this directly, openly, we have only the resource that is actually being created in our economy. And the core resources we have devoted to addressing the social challenges. You have set a serious challenge and the Government will work towards addressing this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u18	Gregory Kaletnik. Next, Paul Zebrowsky will ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u19	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Kathletnik, 15th constituency, Vinnicke district. Dear Mikolo Janovich, there is such a question. I was thinking through the budget committee. But a question to you. Why is there no projected cost of compensation to agricultural enterprises for the past few years for the construction of social buildings in the village? In my native Winnitzkin, it's about seventy million dollars, and in Ukraine in general, it's about a billion. There is an appointment of Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine, and there are the conclusions of the All-Ukrainian Council on the strategy that we have considered here in this room. And the second question. Why is it that the government budget does not include the cost of collateral purchases of grain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u20	Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, the government has sent 400 million dollars to various investment programs mainly in the countryside. The government also allocates the necessary costs for the purchase of grain into the timber system. And what kind of mechanism is going to work is a surrogacy or something. dark or other, we'll see what kind of crops we're harvesting. And once again, I would like to remind you, Mr. People's Deputies and Mr. Grigory Mikolaiovich, that we are entering next year in tax reform, and we are greatly reducing the tax burden on industry, the economy and the income of our citizens. Therefore, it is not possible to cover all the problems, once again. Of course, some things the Government could not take into account, we will take them into account next year, we will take them into account in the budget adjustments if additional resources are available.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u21	Paul Zebravsky, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u22	Dear Mikolo Janovich! You're talking about the social budget. At the same time, you offer to increase only 100 million dollars for medicines. At the same time, in the budget, you propose to suspend norm 5.1. 7 times the VAT on drugs. This is about to eat the supplement with interest, and it will be less than the amount of money allocated for medicine. In addition, you use a fairly high component of the cost of medicines. You also introduce 16 bracelets of excise duty into alcohol, which goes to health care facilities as well as the production of medicines, which will also increase the essential cost of medicines. How can you call this a social budget in this part?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u23	Well, first of all, I'd like you to read the budget carefully, which is not the rules you're talking about. It's not medicine, it's medicine. What are "medical drugs," I think you know. By the way, we're predicting a significant increase in medical expenses, which I've already talked about. The total cost of a consolidated medical budget is increasing by half. In addition, a number of targeted programmes are envisaged by the Government, including funding, and possible price increases. That is why we have done our utmost to compensate for the possible price increase, which, by the way, is provided for by a completely different law than the State Budget Act, our population.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u24	Oleg Grachev instead of Domansky, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u25	Dear Nikolai Janović, I am addressing you as a member of the National Academy of Sciences, whose 85th anniversary is today, as well as its distinguished president. Tell me, how is it that we do not comply with the law, or do we stop the Law on Science and Science and Technology in terms of financing science, and especially fundamental research? Moreover, the Innovation Act has been completely suspended. But you, and the respected doctor of technical sciences, or economic sciences, Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic, from the rostrum, say that "we are following the innovative model of economic development". How can an innovative model for economic development be reconciled when we stop the Innovation Act? And third. Based on the data you've provided on the 56th page, the data we've been given suggests that an increase in the pension for the following year takes place on one pensioner of 3 bracelets per month. Is there anything to talk about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u26	Thank you for the good question. And I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the well-respected and deeply respected President of the Academy, who, unfortunately, was unable to congratulate personally, on his anniversary and on the anniversary of the Academy. And I am happy that we have managed to increase the funding of fundamental science in this budget by 25 per cent. I'm serious about being happy. And we've met with Boris, and we've discussed all the issues of financing fundamental science, and we've found a full understanding of each other's agreement. Now, with regard to pensions. Well, I don't know where you got that number for three bracelets. If, God forbid, we can make a pension reform, our pensioners have been working hard, working hard, and they've told us fairly, and they've insulted us that we've set up a level playing field over these years. And I'm also going to say that I'm happy that we're finally going to put in a pension system where pensions are actually paid for work. And in some categories, they're not going to grow by three bracelets, they're going to grow by two and a half three times. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u27	Yes, dear fellows, I'd like to speak with you for a moment. I'm asking that there be only national deputies in the session room. I'm asking the Deputy Prime Minister to go to where the government is. Don't make any remarks. Please. Instead of Lucienenko, Anatoly Matvienko questioned the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u28	Mikola Janović, I've been given the floor I want to ask you a question. The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor block of Yulia Timoshenko. Mikolo Janovich, I have three questions for you. The first question is the request of all local authorities. The unwarranted excess of the income of the local budgets for the first reading amounted to over two billion. You've reduced them by 600. Please tell me how to solve the problem of the deficit of one and a half billion. Maybe 9 billion, which are unliquidated loans under government guarantees, could be done or some other way. Second question. Mikolo Janovich, you have suspended the laws of the Irpine experiment. I also address the Prime Minister. If we don't finance it, the committee will make an offer to stop it. Does he understand the office that is responsible for stopping the Irpine experiment? And question three? I want to ask you, Mikolo Janovich, in the light of the increase in prices for bread, on energy, on utility services, against the backdrop of what you're stopping the benefits, let's say that 36 articles have been stopped after education, with 205 minimum wages, please tell us that the real standard of living under this budget is increasing or decreasing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u29	From the last question I will begin and answer with responsibility that "the real level of income of our citizens will increase, real," I stress, "level." What does it mean by a real meltdown? These are nominal incomes minus inflation. By Irpeen. Anatoly Sergeyevich, you have the wrong data. The Irpen experiment has been taken into account. I can tell by the benefits. First. Our budget in this regard is not original. We repeat the trend that has already emerged, perhaps in the sixth or seventh budget. And you know it very well. We're not introducing anything new here. Finally, the most painful issue is the income of local budgets. You yourself have rightly said that local budgets on first reading have raised the question of imbalances of 1.9 billion. Yeah? Yeah, 1.9 billion. So between the first and the second readings we added both direct subsidies to local budgets and by reducing their income. I mean, they adjusted the resource base to 1.9 billion. I have already said in the report that between the current year and the next, the expenditure and revenue of the local budgets is 4 billion dollars. In this way, we consider the local budgets to be completely balanced. Moreover, we have established rules that provide for the temporary coverage of the cash gaps of possible budget cuts at the expense of the State budget. That is, the Government has done its utmost to provide for regular and resource implementation of the budget for all. Local budgets are their functions. So I responded to the request of the people's representative of Cukob, who was given in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u30	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Dustenko Peter Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budgets for the Co-Report. 15 minutes for the report and 10 minutes for questions, answers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u31	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, we have just heard the word and the work of an active government differ. A year ago, we were promised that the main goal of this government was to fight poverty. An appropriate program was adopted. Relevant normative documents were adopted. In two years, it has increased by 20 billion. State budget indicators. But yesterday, when prices went up at the government's decision yesterday, a proposal was made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to increase living minimum for 2004 at the request of the government to cancel the increase in minimum wage, to reduce it by 27 dollars, from 237 to 205, by 32 bracelets, I apologize. We can see that when the income of the budget is reduced, social expenditure is reduced. All of us argue that this is a budget that is more social. If we look at a key document to be managed by the government in preparing the draft budget, this is a message from the President. The President's letter clearly states that people's income and minimum wage are expected to rise at a faster pace than GDP. The government now forgets something shy about it. We have a draft budget for the second reading. I can argue that the absolute majority of the Supreme Council's proposals, which were voted by these national deputies in this session room, were not taken into account by the government in preparing the budget for the second reading. I'm very happy that two factions -- factions of the Agrarian Party, factions of the People's Choice -- are now near. Dear Catherine Timofievna, despite the fact that the Budget Committee and the Supreme Council have supported the proposal of the Agrarian Party faction and the faction of Victor Yushchenk's "Our Ukraine" bloc to continue the benefits of taxation on the added value of farmers, the government, the coalition government, where representatives and your party are included, has submitted to us a second reading a draft budget in which these tax benefits have been cancelled. This means that by January 1st or January 10th, the tax inspector will be able to reach every farmer demanding a tax return on the added value. And even if you now, Your Honor Catherine Timofievna, promise that you can cancel this, that we will now accept the change, that they will now promise you from the high government stand that they will support it. Dear Catherine Timothy, the budget is a balance, and the balance of income and expenditure is balanced. So in the revenue budget that you're now offered to vote, there's 600 million dollars that are going to be taken out of the peasant. And I want to see how the party that's going to support the agrarians is going to vote to take the last skin off the peasant! Dear colleagues! You all know how difficult the food crisis has been in the current year. We are all told that this was allegedly related to the lack of funds in the state reserve to ensure the country’s food security. Dear Mr. Hapoczka, you know, your representative is headed by the State Reserve of Ukraine, we supported the first reading of the allocation of 600 million dollars to create a food security balance in the state reserve. Government, your coalition government has not supported this proposal. Today, we are not deciding any position on food security for the following year. And our citizens and our voters will be as poor as they are in the current year. Dear Igor Fedorovich, your faction has made proposals to provide the book publishing aid, despite the fact that it was in the first-reading version of the budget, the government in preparation, your coalition government has made an offer that our Ukrainian book should not be supported. And all the bookstore benefits are cancelled. Your Honor, I don't see Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk, but Nestor Schufrich is in the hall, and he's setting Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk up now, and it won't work because people are behind them. But you are responsible in the coalition government for education. So, Reverend Nestor Ivanovich, this draft budget, despite the Supreme Council of Ukraine's proposal to allocate the necessary funds of four hundred million dollars, according to your own personal, including the draft bill to pay off the fifty-seventh article, the government did not consider this proposal, your coalition government! Destroyed it! This is the difference between the word and the work of the coalition government! I'm convinced that in this way, I can continue this in every faction separately, with respect, except for the regions, because, in fact, Victor Andryovich Yushchenk's proposal for his premiere of the Ukrainian Coal Program, which provided 5 billion 200 million dollars, was finally able to do at least partially. It's an honor to thank you for that, but it would be better if this money went beyond technical armament in the pocket of the coal generals, but for the wages of those miners who came today to support and ultimately support us and our position, and the coalition government of Victor Yushchenk, who was in 2000-2001. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budgets, considered this position and took a decision. There has been brutal pressure on national members of the budget committee. What did he claim? We've actually been deprived of the possibility of a professional discussion of the reality of the income and expenditure portion of the budget. I want to show you right in this room: this morning the First Deputy Prime Minister said that the budget can only be balanced if Bill 4001, which contains 2.5 billion reserves of the income part of the budget. This bill was not adopted, and today at the Conciliation Council of factions we are told that, honourable, even in this way, this budget is balanced, without Bill 4001. This means that secretly, without taking into account the income portion of the budget, this budget contains a reserve of at least 2.5 billion dollars, and this is clearly the result of those diagrams increasing macro indicators and gross domestic product. I'm convinced that in these conditions of decision, under such reserves, the decision after the minimum wage reduction is unconstitutional, because in the law, if no other rule is specified, the law after signature enters within 10 days, i.e. the minimum wage law, even if it is assumed to have been adopted, it will enter into force on December 6th, and as of December 1, the minimum wage in Ukraine would have been 237 dollars. And I'm convinced that the problems that we're going to face will be a small and minor problem compared to this crazy pressure, when the leaders of the country have never again allowed themselves to reduce the level of social protection in the last 100 years. I am not talking about the level of social protection in relation to the position on the implementation of VAT on medicines. I'm not saying any other sources of income that we have today except one: the criminal value-added tax mechanism, of which 2 billion dollars per year go into the pockets of thieves, the money that never came into the state budget. The cost of taxpayers who were to pay the minimum wage is really not enough because they go into the pockets of those who do VAT laundering. If we think today that with the tax system this is how we solve the situation, we have a problem with the Pension Fund. Indeed, a pension reform has been introduced since January 1st. Indeed, we should lift the maximum restrictions on pension payments. So, dear fellows, in the decision you're being asked to vote today, 600 million people are cutting the pension fund's payments while the pension burden is increasing. This will definitely lead us to have a huge risk of pension debt next year, a situation we haven't had since 2000, since Victor Yashchenk's government. Dear colleagues, the analysis of all these suggestions makes us think that we're being hit by a forehead, they want to show off with a scream, like in the former street fight that happened today because of blocking most of the rostrums, a famous scream: "Ours are beating!'and it's as if most of us are supposed to gather together under this cry, to throw themselves into battle in defense of positions. Your Honor, you're not protecting this! I'm convinced that this decision is trying to set up a coalition government, to frame the Prime Minister in order to eventually destabilize the situation in vain. Request: Do not give in to provocation, go to professional budget analysis. I am convinced that compromise can be found. And it's going to be a compromise not for the majority, not for the minority, and it's going to be a compromise for the voters of Ukraine, for your voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u32	That's the question. Please sign up for a question, if any. On the board, please. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u33	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I'd like to ask this question to the Vice Prime Minister, but it's clear that you won't blend in. That's why I'm asking you. On many occasions, I spoke from this rostrum, such as gasification and other problems with the underdevelopment of objects. For example, the Yakimov district of Zaporozhye district is four years in debt for the work already done by half a million people. Four years in a row, the government gives me discounts. "Anatolia Mikolaiovich, next year will be accounted for, returned, in the following year will be accounted for, returned." How does this budget provide for the recovery of these funds? This is just one example, and there are many examples. Please give me an answer. Maybe Mikola Janovich will. I recently spoke from this rostrum and the question lies with him, in Mikola Janovich this question and I am waiting for the answer to that question. Maybe you'll say something, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u34	I can tell you, and it won't be a big secret. You'll get the same answer this year. Wait in 2005. I hope that this pipeline is to be built in 2005. But in this year's capital injection, if this disgraceful process of distribution of capital is adopted, they will only come to those districts that major MPs are voting for the state budget. Thus, the fundamental principle of equality of all citizens before the law, equality and proportionality of regions is violated in order for them to have the right to receive capital. I am convinced that we will not allow ourselves to adopt a similar principle in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u35	Orest Klimpush, National Authority MP. Next up is Basil Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u36	Thank you. I'm asking you to give Vadim Gurvo of the People's Landing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u37	Vadim Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u38	Dear colleague Petr Aleksevich! Of course, your performance in all your professionalism is certainly more political than economic. That's why I want to pay attention to the economy. So, we're done on top of that because there's no regulation of your committee on this issue that's normal, there's seven copies per tonne of iron ore produced, there's now two bracelets, then there's a bargain, there's 70 copies. And now I'm reading a document signed by our Prime Minister, which came out on November 6, 2003, which says, "To establish, with a six-year-old year-on-year increase in indexation and during indexation, a standard for December 31st is considered fundamental." So I'm asking, is this the law or not the law for us? Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u39	Thank you, Reverend Vadim Mikolaiovich. First question. You remember that all the time, the budget committee and I personally did everything I could to ensure that the budget committee did not have politics. We argued in principle that there would be an expert analysis on the budget committee. Unfortunately, between the first and second readings, politics was introduced to the budget committee. And most instead of a professional analysis, they started to receive instructions from a different address. The discussions really, unfortunately, we were robbed, but I have a dream like this, I hope that's the spirit of work that. Thanks to whom we adopted the current budget in 2003. Which has been significantly increased, the Committee will return to the budget for a professional analysis of the problems that have been. The Committee on Budgets is not physically able to calculate the objective need for a real rate of taxation for use in iron ore. We would really think it would be better if the government counted. I made this proposal to the government to at least set differentiated rates because there are different positions. Unfortunately, so far in the budget that you are asked to vote, which has a direct bearing on Kriubas, the differential rates are not set. If this position were transferred to either third reading, or to government development, I'm convinced that we would ensure a level playing field by setting differentiated rates depending on the conditions of iron ore production. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u40	Yes, Basil Gladys, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trouble Ukraine". I'd like to ask you a few concise questions and concise answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u41	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, you proposed to the 2003 budget because you were interested in it. And now you're throwing everybody away. Those who support this budget have besieged all the 9 or 8 factions that were involved, even though you may be even more resilient, including you. He's not setting you up because now the presidential election is on the nose and you're proposing and excite the people. But first of all, in 11 years, people are grateful, because I am a major in this Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister, for what was first done. Counting cappings. And they're filled. In my district, we were able to gas 8 schools and 8 locations. This is the first time. That we supported 205 is what people understand, because money doesn't fall out of the sky. So I propose to support this budget, and I invite my fellow deputies to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u43	My dear colleague, the proposal for the capital investments you're referring to was the budget committee's proposal. I. The sources were provided in such a way that for the first time in the history of Ukraine, capital investment, including in your district, Mr. Majority, was funded in full. As for the voter's opinion, my dear colleague, I'm as much a major as you. And I think it's been a while since you've spoken to the voters, if you think that your decision to cancel the minimum wage is welcome to all majors. Ask those in whom you took 20 to 100 dollars out of your pocket yesterday. Will they like it or not? I say again, it happened because you're not going to live for 200 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u44	Yes, Mikola Shershun, faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u45	Thank you. Please give the floor to the leader of the Katherina Vaszczuk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u46	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u47	Dear Peter Alexiyovich, I thank you very much for caring for the benefits for the peasants, rather than for the benefits, but for what is rightfully theirs. But. If we are, and I'm not just addressing you, the faction of our Ukraine, where many people who really hurt the village, all the factions of the Supreme Council, and most of them, and minorities. If we're really, not just in words, thinking about not leaving the peasant with his problems for the next year, let's go back to Law 4001 and vote, because there are three positions of the village that stand up. That's the difference, that's the extension of the value added tax for the following year in the previous regime; the difference between the rule that the group of goods of one twenty-four does not return VAT; and the third point is that, unfortunately, one of the deputies of your faction is taxing all the docking areas and parts of the tax and garden taxes. Let us now, together with the budget, as the government has put forward, vote on both laws and budgets. Or at least 4001. We'll go out with this, thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u48	Katerina Timofievna, I would also like to thank you very much if this government were to submit in the draft budget a continuation of VAT and VAT compensation for exports of goods to the first and twenty-fourth groups, compensation for food exports, because this reduces the purchase price of agricultural products and further exacerbates the situation in which farmers found themselves this year. I'm not the Supreme Council, and I can't make decisions on the matter procedure, it has to be the Supreme Council. But I'm offering you, these issues can be settled in this budget. One article is enough. Let's put together "Our Ukraine" and "Agrarian Party" a proposal to consider on stage or third reading, or re-reading in government, it's like a coalition government will solve, and so we'll close this little problem at least. If we don't do it and if the budget is voted in that way, it will destroy the peasants. And I know that you have at least as much pain in your soul as in any of these halls. And don't let yourself get raped to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u49	Valentin Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u50	Dear Peter Alexiovich, did we not understand, are you speaking from the faction or are you head of the committee? If you're the chairman of the committee, why didn't you call the committee's decision? That's the first question. And the second question. I wanted you to be more correct. The government, the fight against poverty, proclaimed China, not that government. You don't have to hang them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u51	Dear Victor Fedorovich, dear Mikolo Janovich, I am officially presenting my apologies for the transcript. Because, according to a colleague of the people’s MP Landik, you did not fight poverty or fight!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u52	Take it easy, Peter Alexiovich. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u53	In answer to the question of Valentin Landik, a man I have honored, I really have to announce the committee's decision: the committee in its congregations, at the presence of the First Deputy Prime Minister, the minister of finance by the votes of the national committee members, exclusively those who are members of the parliamentary majority, has decided on the recommendation of the Supreme Council to approve the draft State Budget submitted by the government before the second reading of this year's draft. Along with that committee, there was a separate thought that was given in the hall, and it was clearly reflected that, apart from the problems listed above, there was a huge problem, and this is what I'm talking about with the people's mayoral deputies -- the problem of the local budgets. The City Association cannot reach you and say that there are huge reserves in the State budget, and in the local budgets they are on the verge of survival, and that can be said by every local self - government officer you have chosen. And if you vote in favour of this budget option, first of all you should consult with them, what are you going to pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u54	I just want to make it clear that the committee, honourable colleagues, has decided to take the second reading and generally as a law. We need to make exactly what kind of decision we have to make. I'm talking about the committee's decision. Calm down, please. Here's the document, I'm reading. The committee head confirms it, so calm down. Schufrich’s replica, followed by Terhochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! On the agrarian issue. It is just that the eight factions of the majority and the Prime Minister have made a written commitment to continue the zero VAT rate for the APC until 1 January 2006. We stood on it, stood and stood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u56	Yes, Teryohin, please. Calm down! Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to give a clear answer to the question raised by Deputy Vaschuk, I would like to advise you to go to draft Law 4000/1, where two things are clearly written. The first is the exemption from taxation of income from dowry. This time. And I would ask that my name not be shaken on this matter. Because I'm responsible for tax evasion. And secondly, unlike what was written in this budget, and now, so, from the shoulders of Shufrich and Vasuk Bar, they're giving, so that's another 1 year benefit, in this 4000/1 bill, which most didn't support, by the way, completely, you know who wrote the same thing. And once again, we're talking about how it's embarrassing to accept this budget, where there's an article of the 65th, which destroys imports, where there's a 74th -- 80 taxes, tax standards -- it's impossible! Take 4000/1.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u58	Thank you. Assadchev. It's freezing. And now we're going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear friends, well, that's not how the budget works. I want to remind you that budget is a balance sheet. If we put a zero rate on VAT -- the peasants is 2 billion -- so either 2 billion plus, like they are now, or 2 billion, Vladimir Mikhailovich, minus. So they can sign anything there, but the budget is a balance. If there's a zero rate, that means the money stays in the peasants, they won't be in the budget. I repeat: it's 2 billion. Next. If we didn't vote 4000/1, that's minus 2 and a half billion of the revenue. And if it's not, it's either a plus or a minus. Come on, it's a balance sheet, it's not some kind of toy. And finally, third, Vladimir Mikhailovich. This budget is a completely different budget than the one that was put on first reading. Another gross product, another course, another import, exports. That's why I demand that this budget be discussed, because the very important things that are, the truth is, Azarov was telling the truth from the rostrum. Let's work this out. It's a serious financial document, and the state has to live with it for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u60	Alexander Frost, then Gladys. All right, good fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u61	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! It's not just about VAT for peasants. And in this way, as soon as Nestor Schuffritch has announced, made decisions or persuaded MPs, it's only political bribes. Because he probably doesn't know that the budget law doesn't regulate these issues. Terjehohin, a special law that deals with taxation, rightly said. And there's other things, so let's just make some arrangements right now to cancel the restrictions on free or child-eating in schools and in vocational schools, let's talk about VAT on drugs, let's talk about social protection in education, in medicine, let's say that all the benefits for black people are eliminated. So maybe we should take these questions up first before we vote. To consider them, let us at least advise on what we will do next with the budget. We turned to two factions, take a break for half an hour, advise on what to do next, but it's an adventure, so it can't be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! That's enough. Please, I said, Hunger is the last and all. We're still working.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u63	Michael Gladys, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Fedorovich! The Agrarian Party's faction insists on the proposal made by the head of the Katherina Vaschuk faction to put the draft Law 4001 and the draft budget to the vote. Then we vote and settle the situation. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u64	Dear colleagues! We have two draft inadmissibility decrees. The first draft of the ruling that Victor Yushchenko and Victor Pinzenik made. Please explain your project. Then prepare Vernigori, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u65	Dear National Deputies! Article 22nd of the Constitution of Ukraine does not allow decisions that restrict citizens' rights and freedoms. To date, the Law on Minimum Wages for 2003 remains valid, with a minimum wage of 237 dollars. We can't vote for a draft budget based on a minimum wage of 205 dollars. Now I would like to go back to the economic side of the matter. In fact, there is no problem in solving the introduction of a minimum wage of 237 bracelets with the tariff of office salaries. I'm asking the MPs to show the graph. Note that this year’s budget income was never less than 30 percent of the gross domestic product. The draft budget next year provides for the revenue of the budgeted 27.6 percent of gross domestic product. A question you didn't hear the answer to, where did 2.1 percent of the gross domestic product go? Where did 6 billion dollars go? These costs are not only sufficient to raise the wages of doctors, teachers, and credits to the Pension Fund, but also to further address the problems of miners of one billion dollars. Another economic side of the matter. If you pay attention, the problem with the village is not just VAT, but the problem is that we have a tax on agricultural exports under the Budget Act. I would call this draft budget the State Program for the Destruction of the Ukrainian Village. Yesterday, as an economist, it was wild to hear from the head of the Committee on Social Policy that the increase in wages seemed to be harmful to the economy. In this regard, I have an offer. The factions of the parliamentary majority to place the head of the Committee on Social Policy on Acquisition The Nobel Prize in Economics for inventing a theory on the harmfulness of raising wages for the Ukrainian economy. The faction of "Our Ukraine" proposes to support the inadmissibility of the Budget Act, to return it to the government. The budget should be based on a minimum wage of 237 dollars. And the second. We've introduced draft decrees 4430. Taking into account the Government's initiative and its support for the factions of the majority, we have put forward a draft decree of 4,430 on the establishment of the Prime Minister, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ukrainian National Deputys of Wages at the level of 205 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u66	Yes, Peter Cibenko and Baranowski in connection with the second project will now report. This is project number 4,000. Replica, please. Come on. Peter Zibenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikola Janovich, listen, please, I'm addressing you. When you were speaking from the rostrum, you were talking about the social orientation of this budget and you were talking about pension reform. There was a slogan, "Let's live pension reform!".. It's a nice slogan. But what's the slogan? It's the first time I've ever heard it. One billion dollars 60 million was not added from the State budget to the Pension Fund budget. Second rule. Two billion dollars of additional congregations entered into the Pension Fund at the time of repayment of pension debts were taken into the State Budget. The 800 million dollars that farmers were to receive for the Pension Fund were not added. And the last. A decree was adopted on November 20, which introduced a salary of 306 dollars instead of 376 dollars of the average wage in 2002. Seventy dollars of each salary is taken to calculate pensions. That's what we're saying today: "Let's live pension reform."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u68	Yes, please, Alexander Baranowski, about the 4000/P4 project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u69	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski We, the representatives of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, have introduced a bill on the inadmissibility of the draft budget for 2004 on the following grounds. First. Many questions were raised here. But at the same time, no one said that more than 12 billion dollars is under-income. The government in the second reading actually accepted the argument of the budget committee that we would have a targeted economic development, i.e. about 8 percent for the following year we would have GDP growth. At the same time, we ask, Why didn't the profit increase? And this is the loss of four billion. We're talking about what's going on with the Wages Fund in the next year, at least by 11 billion. Once again, the income is completely out of the question. I'm asking today on behalf of the Socialist faction why there are now 9 billion dollars in the treasury budget accounts that are frozen and not used. And these costs, 9 billion, they're going to be transitional on January 1st next year. So these costs have to be put into the budget. It's again a target that's not shown in the budget. Next. We're talking about 237 wages being minimal. And what they voted today to make 205 stand is not a raise in wages. The point is that 185 bracelets are minimal, in May, in June, a person could buy 200 pieces of bread. Today, at 205, she can buy 120 coves. So I'm asking on behalf of the faction, is this a wage raise or not? The question is, why should the government, knowing that if the price of the consumer basket rises, that is, prices go up by more than 5 percent, they have to index the wages, they have to index the pension according to the price increase for these products. Why is such an increase in food basket prices not an index of wages, unindexed pensions? We're talking about what VAT they're introducing today for drugs, we're asking for bread, and for the village, we're asking what it was that wasn't human, someone else could do it. It's so beastly, sorry, it was done when they introduced VAT into medicine, and VAT today for the village. So in view of this and what the previous colleagues have said, we have proposed that the draft Budget Act 2004 be unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u70	Please, from the government, please. Calm down. From the government, please. What? The government, please, the law. What determination? We're not voting today because I don't have the right to vote. So there's a room. I'll put it to a vote. Catherine Timothy, you can't be disturbed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u71	Hall of honor! I ask you very much, from all over the village, to vote 4001 again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u72	The government, please, has a government proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u73	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich and distinguished members of the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u74	Louder, there's no telling, the microphone's on itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u75	I ask, first of all, to support Catherine Timofeevna Vashtuk's proposal. The Government would in any event maintain the applicable village tax regime. We guarantee it. I would now like to say a few words on the statements made by the two people's deputies, who have suggested that you vote against the State Budget Act. First of all, you were the first vice-premier, and the proportion of the reallocation through GDP, the return of the State budget to GDP was 47.6 per cent. Chernobyl tax and so on, and so on. I can remind you of a lot. Now I am surprised how you could ask such a question in the context of tax reform. Naturally, the proportion of gross domestic product redistributed through the budget is declining, as we are reducing our tax rates. That's obvious and understandable. And neither Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic nor the government has any money, of course not. The Government had therefore shown itself to the economy and had given a strong boost to the economy when it had reduced the share of the gross domestic product redistributed through the budget. We've been running this line, and we'll be running it. Let's move on. Local budgets. It is surprising, on the one hand, that Petr Alekseevich Poroshenko and Baranivsky say that there is no money in local budgets. And that is despite the fact that we have added four billion to local budgets! On the other hand, they say, "Come on, raise minimum and other wages." So where's the logic?? On the one hand, you say there is no money in the local budgets, and on the other hand, they say, "Come on, raise your wages." It is also surprising to see figures that are so freely addressed. The government has hidden 12 billion dollars in budget income! Is this a cover-up in the context of tax reform?Oh, my God! And the last. I urge you once again to vote on Law 401 and to maintain the current tax rate for the village, i.e. the zero VAT rate. We guarantee we'll keep it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u76	Calm down. Dear colleagues, according to coming, I feel unacceptable. Attention! Vote better. On the inadmissibility of the second reading of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004. The draft decree made by the people's deputies Yushchenko and Pinzenik is a document under the number 4,000 "p" "3". Now, one minute. We're voting on the inadmissibility right now. [[17:27:33]] For-195
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u77	The decision is not taken. Now for the next decision, please pay attention. Well, calm down, please. Calm down. I now put to the vote draft decree number 4,000/p-4, draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of article 83 of the Ukrainian draft "On Ukraine's 2004 State Budget". [[17:28:18]] For a hundred and Not accepted. I now put to the vote a document number 4,000/p-2 on the adoption in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2004. This is a government document -- 4,000/p-2. Please vote in second reading and in general as a law. Please vote. [[17:28:53]] For 234 Budget accepted. A draft Law on Lombards in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. About the pawnshops in Ukraine, please. Put the factions on the board, please. Return the results of the vote. From the beginning, please. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukrainian Regions" - 61, Communists - 0, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs Party and "Trud Ukraine" - 42, Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party - 36, "The People's Government" - 21, Socialist Party - 0, "Deminicatives" - 17, Agrarian Party - 10, "The People's Choice" - 14, NDP - 14, "Afterfractional" - 19. Take your seats, please. Vashtuk microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u78	Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party voted in favour of the budget in the package with Law 4001, please vote on Law 4001.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-27-m1.u79	I'm asking you to sit down. Sit down, please. Please sit down and keep working. Please have a seat. Catherine Timothy, please sit down. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. Please take your seats, everyone. Well, we'll all keep working, dear fellows. Dear colleagues, let's make a deal this way. On Monday at the Conciliation Council, we will discuss this issue on Tuesday, and then we will bring it to the consideration of the agreed position. Now let's move on or close the session. It's a meeting, not a session. Please take your seats. Please have a seat. I'm asking you, Your Honor, we'll agree on Tuesday, we'll come back to that. Please sit down. Catherine Timothy, please sit down. I'm asking you, agrarians, come back Tuesday, we'll make the right decision. Please take a seat, Catherine Timothy. Take a seat. Dear colleagues! On the next plenary Tuesday, we will be the first to consider the matter. Please sit down, please. I'm gonna have to close the session. If you'll excuse me, please sit down. I'll have to close the session. I'll be the first one on Tuesday. You voted to fund political parties, that's all. I'm asking you to sit down. Dear colleagues! The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed, and tomorrow it is scheduled for Friday. Thanks for the job.
