ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[16:01:43]] Registered -429 I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. The question of the selection of judges. Please, Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, head of the Committee on Legal Policy. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! For your consideration of today's session of the Supreme Council, two draft decrees for the indefinite election of judges are proposed. First of all, this is a draft decree for judges of the local judges of Kyiv. You have a list on your hands, at least we sent you. I'm going to read who we recommend to what court, if you have questions later, I'll answer. Thus, the draft ruling, which is brought by the Committee on Legal Policy, is recommended in accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, part 1, of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to elect judges on an indefinite basis: the local Righteous District Court of Kyiv Kotovitch, Alexander Leonardovich; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev - Lastovka Nela Dmitrovna; The local Obolańsk District Court of Kiev - Lucenka Alexandra Mikolayovich; the local Pecher district court of Kiev - Kokol Larissa Ivanovna; The local Sanhedrin District Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u3	Just a minute. Questions on the subject. About the Cave District Court, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u4	Well, I'll announce the entire list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u5	No, no, there's no question so we can spot it. Who made the remark? Copy that. Let's move on. There's no notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u6	The local Holy District Court of Kiev - Babic Nina Dmitrovna, Dentist of Larissa Petrovna, Kirilenko Tetjana Valentinovna, Kiriluk Galina Mikolayovna; The local Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev - Billow Ludmila Vasilovna, Moskaluk Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Usatov Irina Anatolovna. I should point out that all these judges passed the Higher Qualifications Commission. They are recommended by the Supreme Court and the judiciary, which has recently been created. And for the first time, dear colleagues, we've looked at every candidate, every judge on the committee separately. Not the grumbles, as 50 people were called. Each candidature was reviewed. So a claim like that wasn't, but that doesn't mean you can't ask questions about any candidates right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u7	Just a minute. Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u8	The cloud, the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, you say you've been looking very carefully and conscientiously at the candidates. I have a very strong warning, and above all, I have specific facts and data regarding, for example, Judge Zokol Larissa Ivanovna, who abused her position. For example, in 2002, she sentenced a pregnant woman for stealing 80 bracelets, which the Court of Appeal subsequently acquitted and dismissed. She was looking at a civil suit against journalist John Immortal, a member of the Public Control Society, and she also made a decision in favour of the bandit who organized the murder and against whom a criminal case had been investigated and had even been handed down, which was then dismissed in a mild manner, and was investigated. So I suggest that I only know the information by one candidate, and where is the guarantee that you've checked others in this way. Therefore, there is a proposal today to postpone consideration of the matter at all and to conduct it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u9	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u10	May I answer, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u11	So let's work it out, dear fellows. In established practice, if there's any warning, we get a list, we vote where there's no warning, then we go after every specific candidate. An infertile discussion is under way. I mean, the name is, please. What other names? Baranowski, please. Then we will present the claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u12	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to proceed. The thing is, I want to support my colleague Stephen Cloud. I would like to know how many of these judges have had cases that were then dismissed in the Court of Appeal, as they judged, what respect it was for the law by the judges. Because we remember how in Kiev the Shevchenkov court decides to demolish a tent town in the Pecher district. And Kyiv is an example for all of Ukraine. So I would ask that this information be given to the MPs, and that we should not go so quickly to all the judges, and that they also remember that they should serve, not the bells, but the law, and only the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u13	Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u14	Dear colleague Baranowski, I must point out that on January 3rd, the committee sent word to all factions and committees that these judges are being considered. Some of the deputies came to the committee and made comments. In the case files that you've got that I have, there's all the data on how many judges have considered the case, how many have been canceled, what are the motives. We've cleared all this up on the committee. And we don't have the cases you're talking about in the Shevchenkov court. So there's nothing to talk about. But the material of the case is where the activity of a judge is fully described.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u15	Yes, dear fellows, I ask you now, let's make sure we work hard, don't make discoveries for ourselves. If there's a warning against a candidate, you call it a last name, we vote for the rest, and then we vote separately on a specific candidate, listening to pros and cons. Do we have a deal? Melniczuk, please. Yeah, like we always did, right? That's it. Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u16	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't have a candidature, I only have a request to the judges who will be elected to the Holy Court. Namely, judgment is an example today of how people should be destroyed. This court condemned the seriously ill man Anatoly Zagradnjak, a black farmer’s farm. The Mafia used to settle accounts with him. That's why I have a warning to these judges. There are no specific claims to them. But the fact that the courts in Kiev are the mechanism by which the Mafia reads, they say, their opponents are today. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u17	National Deputy Babourin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Baburin, the Communist faction. Vasili Vasiljevic and Vladimir Mihajlovich, we would not have these constant issues that arise every time we discuss the judges if we had fulfilled the agreements that were on the committee. The judges are going away for life. What prevents us at the regional level from missing these nominations, through the media, so that everyone knows that this judge is going on for life? And then there wouldn't be any questions, we'd know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u19	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. Please, National Deputy Klukkowski. Let's be specific if there are comments on the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u20	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear Vassil Vasilovich, I'm addressing you as a really high-class lawyer. And I'd like to understand the basic simple thing: please tell me now, as head of the Committee on Legal Policy, or as judge of the Supreme Court, which of the same rostrum hasn't passed in six months, how did he take an oath? So, then, what oath do you break — a national MP or a judge of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u21	I thank you for that question. Perhaps other questions will be answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u22	People's MP Sulkowski, then Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u23	So I'm telling you, I'm in charge of the committee. Today, in the courts of general jurisdiction, my application to the Supreme Court for recognition of elections is invalid. As soon as the final point is set by the Supreme Court, I'll make a decision either way. I don't work in the Supreme Court today, I don't do two jobs, I don't work in the Supreme Court, I don't get paid, I don't work in the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u24	I also want to tell Yuri Klukkowski that the documents concerning the four national deputies are being sent to court. Please, National Deputy Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u25	Sulkowski, Goschtansky 154th constituency, Ravenshina Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, we can see that the discussions did not go in favor of today’s consideration of the matter. So I'm making a proposal, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to put questions to the vote, to stop the discussions, and to support the committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u26	Thank you. People's MP, Pecklusenko, then School, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the opposite of us is not robots, and people, they have children, they have colleagues, and a judge who is not offended has to change his profession. Second moment, Vasily Vasilyevich, why don't you say that we have 25 people on the committee, of whom eight people go to the committee all the time. There are factions where four persons are recorded, no factions attend the committee meetings, and then they start asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u28	Thank you. National deputy of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u29	Thank you. Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko faction, UNA-UNSO. You see, here we go back to the subject of judges, Vladimir Mikhailovich, having problems every time. Look, I've got the help, I've just opened the first one: Lucenko, I've graduated from the National Law Academy in 1996, and he's working as a judge right now, and he's going to work as a judge from the academy. I am five years of apprenticeship. And you know, well, a young person really needs to move on, but I'm in this situation, not knowing anything about this person positive or negative, it's hard for me to vote for her, based on just this narrow, dry trait. So I know that there's a new bill on how to look at and give life to judges, and I think now. At least it should be the last of such an acceptance procedure. We have to wait for a new, quality law and work on it. What do you think about this, Vasil Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u30	Mr. Andrew, thank you for that question. We need to improve our legislation. On March 13, I say to everyone, we'll have committee hearings on the state of judicial reform. It's committee. We invite all interested colleagues to come and hear a professional conversation about the problems that are in justice, in the judiciary. So please come, but today we can't stop the courtroom, because many judges have been out of work for months, and the first term is five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u31	Yeah, what's the offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u32	I'm making an offer, Your Honor, to judge Zokol Larissa Ivanovni, which is recommended to the local Pecher District Court, to raise, vote separately, and to vote for all others who are in the draft rulings, as we always do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u33	I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to elect judges on an untimely basis, with the exception of Zokol Larissa Ivanovna. Please vote on the committee's proposal. Please vote. [[16:15:45.]] For-300 For 300, the decision is made. Now let us take a separate look at the question of the Zokol Larissa Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u34	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I suggest, because we put the judges here for the first time, and so it should be for Larissa Ivanovna to come up to the microphone and answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u35	Larissa Ivanovna, please. Chocolate Larissa Ivanovna. May I have your attention, please? Please, Larissa Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u36	Please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u37	No, it was a question of whether or not the people's MP of the Cloud was repulsed. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Look at him. He's worried, he's worried. Let's support it. Come on, let him answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u38	As to the conviction of a pregnant woman, I can say that the Kyiv Court of Appeal, formerly the Kyiv City Court, had softened the punishment of the woman. When I heard the matter, there were no mitigating circumstances. As for the civil case, the Immortal was called the name, the Kyiv City Court left my decision unchanged. And it is now valid. I mean, I think these questions are inappropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u39	Please, Vasil Vasilovich, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u40	The committee did not consider this problem because we did not have it before the committee. That question was raised right now in the hall. We had John Makar's complaint separately, we considered it, and we found it groundless. On this issue, we did not clarify it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u41	Please, Stepan Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u42	Thank you. Regarding the civil lawsuit against John the Immortal, a journalist investigating the organization of the murder of an entrepreneur at Winnitzin, this case received a very broad resonance. And by the way, even in such a respectable newspaper as "The Mirror of the Week," and Judge Sokol has treated journalists shamefully, she has exhibited journalists from the courtroom, she hasn't allowed entirely justified trouble, and she has taken over the side of the man who organized the murder, and more than that, she has persecuted a journalist who is honest, and we know this man John the Immortal, who has been conducting an honest, honest, journalistic investigation. I think it's both immoral and deeply damaging to vote for this candidacy today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u43	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Stretovich, please. Dear colleagues, we're about to vote. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u44	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Stretovich, Our Ukraine. Ancient Roman law says that “—let the other party be heard. We're listening to one side here -- Stepan Ilkovich. The material and circumstances of the case we examined with the judge are quite different. So we can't turn down the judge's offer for these reasons. So let me remind you that we're building the same independent branch of power here. And this opposition, it's completely inappropriate. So I propose to stop the discussion, put it to a vote, and vote for this judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u45	I'm putting to the vote the question of whether the judge should be elected termlessly by Tsokol Larissa Ivanovna. Please vote. [[16:20:07]] For 281 For 281. Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, we now need to choose from the local Righteous District Court of Kyiv - Kotowich Alexander Leonardovich; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Kiev-Lastovka Nella Dmitrovna; the local Obolonj district court of Kyiv - Lucenka Alexander Mikolaiovich; The local Sanhedrin District Court of Kiev - Babic Nina Dmitrovna, Dentist of Larissa Petrovna, Kirilenko Tetjana Valentinovna, Kiriluk Galina Mikolayovna; The local Solomonic District Court of Kiev - Billow Ludmila Vasilovna, Moskaluk Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Usat Irina Anatoliyovna. No complaint was filed against the judges. I propose to vote in favour of selecting them on an untimely basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u47	Vasil Vasilovich, give me the document. I put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges on an indefinite basis at number 3079. Please vote. [[16:21:30]] For 315 Decision taken. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u48	Dear colleagues! For your consideration, the judges are invited by the committee to be elected on an open-ended basis to the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv Region. You also have materials, I'll read it. First of all, Averina Natalija Volodymyrovna, Alexeieva Alexander Alexeiyovich, Brincheva Anatolia Petrovich, Vorobyova Oleg Yuriovich, Gerasimenka Petra Porfirovič, Gultay Mikhail Miroslavovich, Zazulinska Tetjana Petrovna, Kamesheva Sergija Petrovich, Kisi Petra Vasilovich, Korstyev Valentina Ivanovna, Koklija Nadia Alexandrovna, Lesika Sergija Mikolajovich, Olefir Nina Alexandrovna, Tolstoluz Alexandra Antonovna, Hretova Valerija Pavlovich, Fedushina Love Mihailnovna, Shevchenka Yuri Petrovich, Shevchenko Ninu Fedorovna. 19 people are judges who haven't been able to work in the Kharkiv Court of Appeal for months. You can imagine how difficult the situation is. Yesterday, we literally looked at each candidate separately on the committee. And I'll be honest with you, we've been very pleased with these candidates. High knowledge, professionalism, and we had no claim to no candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u49	I am voting on the adoption of Supreme Council ruling 3136 on the election of judges of the Kharkiv Court of Appeal. Please vote. [[16:23:30.]] For 335 Decision taken. Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u51	A draft decision on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio from the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the nominations of Chekmisheva, Lassovsky, Horatsov, Lebedev. Mikola Tomenko, please. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u52	Greetings to the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u53	Your Honor! The Supreme Council of Ukraine warmly welcomes you with untimely election, encourages you to adhere to the rule of law, law, and honesty, and thus to good health, family well - being, and all manner of things. Let's say hello, fellows of honor. Thank you. A draft decree on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio from the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the nominations of Cekmisheva, Lásovski, Horatsov, Lebedev. The reporter is the head of the committee, Mikol Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! I would like to ask your attention for a moment because it is now about a matter that will enter the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, because four candidates for one post bear the honorary title of candidates for the post since September 25, 2002. I mean, we had no precedent if these people had waited so long for a final decision. And I wanted us to get together and make that decision today. A short history. So we've decided on three of the four members of the National Council, as provided for by the National Council and the Constitution Act, we have one member's vacancy. The committee was submitted, 16 candidates submitted and four candidates left behind by secret ballot. The voting on the committee was as follows: Lassovsky Vladislav Evgenovich - 13 votes, Chekmishev Alexander Viktorovich - 10 votes, Horatz Vladimir Alexiyyovich - 7 votes, Lebedev Tetjana Jakovna - 7 votes. According to the requirement of article 6 of the National Council Law, the committee directed the submission to the Head and the Head made an appropriate submission to you. The law does not provide for and clearly does not determine the order of voting for these candidates. We can do two things: either according to how the candidates got the votes, or Lassovsky, Chekmischev, Sparrows, Lebedev, or according to the alphabet. This is not in principle in this case, and so if the head offered us an option that in the determination, I don't think we can go against it. We can vote as it is in the ruling. The decision is taken as follows. There is a rule about so-called rating vote. Article 6 stipulates that candidates appointed as members of the National Council shall be considered candidates who have obtained the largest number of votes in the rating vote from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we can listen to or ask questions to all four candidates for this position, then vote accordingly. So, since we passed that question two weeks ago, the committee sent written invitations to all the MPs and factions, and all those who wanted and insisted on meetings, the meeting took place. So I don't think the MPs can claim to the committee and to our candidates who, I don't see them where they're sitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u55	They're on the left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u56	Our candidates who had the opportunity to speak with all the people's deputies. In order not to take it too long and go into procedure, I'd like to say the only thing. For us and for the committee, today’s decision is effective. I personally, as chairman of the committee, believe that four candidates are professional people and people who know their own business. And for me, as head of the committee, it is principle for one of them to become a member of the National Council. And I'm not showing my sympathy to any of these four. Why do I say that? Because unlocking or creating a normal civilized system of work of the National Council is at the level of total closure of the Supreme Council quota. Today we have received, and Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, as Head of the Supreme Council, I, as chairman of the committee, from the head of the administration, president of several letters that say that the President will not change, let's say, the presidential candidates, although for example, Vladimir Granowski has already submitted a second month as he has applied, and it has not been rejected or signed. It will not comply with the Supreme Council's decision regarding the mistrust of the Head of the National Council until we, as the Supreme Council, carry out our mission with regard to the Quartet. Thus, our effective vote also unlocks the activity of the President of Ukraine and leads us to positive decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. If there's no objection. Now we're going to invite every challenger. If there's any questions, we'll ask questions, and then we'll conduct a rating vote. Is there no objection? Shall we vote? So let's do it this way. As the committee has proposed, we will vote according to the number of votes that have been cast on the committee. I'm voting, we're voting. Draft decision of the Supreme Council on the appointment of a member of the National Television Council, the radio talk of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Chekmishev Aleksandra Viktorovich. This is Project 3075. Please vote. [[16:30:11]] For-123 Chekmisheva, we voted for Chekmisheva. I put to the vote the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladislav Evgenović. Project number 3075-1. [[16:30:47]] For 165 Yes, I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Appointment of a Member of the National Council of Ukraine on Television, Radio from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Horobtsov Aleksandra Alexiyyovich. Project 3075-2. [[16:31:18]] For-138 Yes, I'm putting to the vote the Bill of Order No. 3075-3 "On the appointment of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television issues, on the radio from the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Lebedev Tetjana Jakovna." Please vote. [[16:31:51]] For 295 Thus, the honourable colleagues, Lebedev’s greatest number of votes. In second place comes Lasovski, then the Sparrows. I am voting for the election of a member of the National Council of Ukraine on TV and radio from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lebedev Tetjana Yakovna. Please vote. [[16:32:31]] For 385 So Lebedeva Tetjana Yakovna was appointed as a member of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Show yourself, please. Aunt Lebedev. Let us welcome, wish to discharge our responsibilities as a member of the National Council, as well as health and success. Yes, a draft decree on the agreement of the location of the objects is being considered. Lechenko Vladimir Aleksijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u58	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Excuse me. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations makes a decision for consideration by the Supreme Council to agree on the location of objects. The materials and this draft of the decree are in the people's deputies, so I'm going to report in a somewhat short form. It is proposed that the city be accommodated: the lease of clay for a five - year lease to a closed stock company of the Squire Brick Plant, 7 hectares 39 acres [7 ha] on the land of the Squire City Council of the Kyiv Region. The second object, for the construction of the new Lviv-Krakovec concession road, is the permanent use and rental of construction, road service in Lviv district 733, 65 hectares of land. These lands are located on reserves, reserve funds, forestry enterprises, Lvivtodor lands and so on. The third object is proposed to agree with the location of the second turn of the Kaguyawian clay career in a lease of 16 years for the Open Shareholder Society "Mikolayivcement" of the state Ukrainian cement and cement concert in the land of the reserve fund of the Gonitchin Rural Council 8 hectares of the area of the Mikolai district of Lviv. Fourth object. To accommodate the gas plant and its lease facilities for 50 years to the joint venture Romegas - 9 hectares. [[This is the Romanian district of the Sumskie District.]] Fifth object. For a 15-year lease of Pistachio's native clay to a 15-year-old manufacturing and commercial firm called Pobutservis on the land of a citizen of Fedorchenk and the land of a reserve of the Sands Village Council of the Somali City Council of the Suma Region. Sixth object. To place the exploitable wells of the Sakhalin family on the land of the limited liability of the Niva and the number 82 wells of the Western Kosian lineage on the land of the farming cooperative Mayak, this is the Krasnokut region of Kharkiv region, leased for 50 years by the oil and gas company Ochtyrkanaftogas. And the seventh object. To place a complex of educational and training centres in the permanent use of a separate division of the "Hmelnic Nuclear Power Station" of the National Atomic Energy Company Energoatoma on the lands of the Slavusian State Department 0.55 hectares of the Neteshin City Council of the Hmelnick Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u59	Committee position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u60	All the cartographic and other consent documents on the committee are there. The committee's proposal is to agree to the location of the listed objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u61	National MP Petrenko, please. Then Simonenko. Peter Simonenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u62	I would like to take the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Simonenko, the Communist faction. We have one request from the faction. The question needs to be resolved. It's really our function with you. And we have to make a decision. But there is one request. There are a few problems that we should learn more, at least a week might have to deal with. And we suggest that factions vote on each individual proposal in order to consider it in the context of the general decision that is being proposed today, but each proposal should be voted separately, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as in the decree. Therefore, the request, Vladimir Mikhailovich, that we do not block because we may have different views about the problems of this decision, but we ask that we vote separately on each of these seven proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u64	One moment, Yavorowski, please. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u65	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina My dear colleagues, unfortunately, the classic phrase, which is a major problem and Ukraine, including roads in fools. Well, with the fools, it's a lot harder, and with the roads, we're starting to make decisions. As a result, the most important issue in this decree is the allocation of land for the gates of Europe to Ukraine. It's a piece of road from the border crossing to Lviv Krakovec-Lviv. I ask very much for your support, because this is very important for us all and for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u66	National Deputy Sulkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u67	Sulkovski, Goshtansky 154 constituency, Ravenshina, Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, on the one hand, is hearing the offer of the leader of the Communist faction. But I'll tell you frankly that Mr. Leshchenko, from the Communist faction, let him tell you the truth, that the committee really did deal with each of these issues separately. And so I'm making an offer, and it's not appropriate to look at it right now in the hall. I propose to vote in general, to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u68	Please, the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The committee actually offered to adopt the ruling, the draft ruling on the basis. But I still have an offer. If one of the seven national deputies had a comment, it could be listed, voted on, and then voted separately for each comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u70	Is there no objection to such an offer? Please, Michael Gladys. If there's a objection, then we'll leave the decision committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u71	Dear colleagues! I'd like to support the committee's decision. The authority of the Branch Committee cannot be undermined. We made decisions on all subjects, and today at the commission or at the invitation of one of the deputies to produce an object, it is not right. I ask you to support the decision of the committee and Mr. Sulkovsky, my colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u72	The replica. Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u73	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We do not object to the Committee's having drawn up its position and invited us to consider it. In other words, if a regulatory rule already exists, each proposal from the area that arises must be formulated by a separate order and voted separately. We are already in violation of the Rules because these are different issues, although the idea itself, i.e., the removal of land, is a common problem. Therefore, we do not question the position that he has taken and proposed to us by the Committee, we now ask to consider either in the context of Lechchenko's proposal, that is, let's have comments on some objects, we are now withdrawing them to vote separately, and the generals on which we do not vote then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! Please, with the Vladimir Cherniak procedure. Let's just vote, after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u75	Dear colleagues! I respect the opinion of each of you, but there is a rule and a procedure. First, the decision of the profile committee shall be voted on. If it does not get the required number of votes, then other proposals are put to the vote. Therefore, I ask you to act in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u76	I am voting on the basis of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the acceptance of sites for the placement of objects according to the committee’s decision. [[No. 3083]] Please vote. [[16:42:35]] For 271 Decision taken. What will be the comments? Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u77	Vladimir Mihajlovich, why did I make this suggestion on behalf of the faction that some objects should be removed? First, we would like, on the basis of the protection of national interests, to take a deeper look at the concession for and the removal of land for the construction of the road, while our practice in the Supreme Council shows that we are “for” to develop transport arteries in Ukraine, but on the basis of national interests alone. That's why we wanted to figure out how this was going to work out at first, because the proposals that this particular land is actually being invested as statutory capital for the further use of some structures are very dangerous things. We've been through this before. And the second question. There's a career question. It turns out that the leader of this collective farm himself also takes the land to his land under his career, and it is difficult to say in these circumstances whether the land he has used falls, let us say, like producers, if only a private entrepreneur, who, so to speak, will use the land not for the purpose of the land. We wanted to figure it out. That's why the question came up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u78	Peter Mikolajovich, are you suggesting that these questions be removed?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u79	Remove these 2 objects exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! What kind of career? There are two careers here. What kind of career? So then you're proposing to delete the second chapter, right? Where are the cars, huh? Well, respectable colleagues, there's a proposition, so we'll vote. I forgive you, calm down. So we're going to put it in turn. The offer was from Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. From a project that we took as a basis to delete the second section. Please make up your mind. Dear colleagues, whether you vote or not, it's up to you. [[16:44:58]] For-119 Not supported. And this is the career of clay, right? Where is he, where is he? On page 2 of the proposal to delete the second paragraph, which refers to the career of the Sandstone family clay. I'll bet you a vote on the exclusion from the draft order that was adopted as a basis. [[16:45:31]] For-140. I am voting on the whole draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to agree on the location of the objects as a regulation. Please vote. [[16:45:55]] For 293 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on. A draft Act amending the National Security Concept of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] Georgi Korniyovich, the position of the committee, we will then vote. And will you report, yes, Alexander Ivanovich? Only right away is the vote for which the draft decree is voted on and everything. Well, for which to vote, it's a committee that offers. A committee proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Honorable National MPs. Let me remind you that the draft Ukrainian Law on Change in the Concept of National Security and Defence is being considered for the second time. The quality of its preparation in a community of high social significance gives reason to believe that the lack of a few votes during the first consideration was simply an accident. In spite of this, the National Security and Defence Committee has re-examined the bill and taken into account a number of comments that took place during the first discussion. Taking into account what has been said, and considering that the President of Ukraine has designated this bill as the first priority, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis. The committee commits itself to redrafting the bill for second reading, taking into account comments and suggestions. We propose to support the National Security and Defence Committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Ivanovich Pirozkov, please inspire us. Your offer. The motive will be, you'll have it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u83	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I ask you to support the committee's proposal and vote for the first reading, because in due course it was discussed, this concept. And in order to prepare this concept for second reading, we need a vote. So I would like to support you now and vote so that we can work with the committee to prepare for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u84	Thank you. Very convincing. Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Mikhail Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u85	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's my question. We have two drafts, one government, and the other people's deputies, Manchulenka. So I wanted to clarify which bill -- government or national MP -- the committee supports, because it's not clear which.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u86	Project 2062 has been declared. It's government. Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u87	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add a bill last time and not go through that it is incomplete and conceptually incomplete, and we need to expand the list of important national security areas of activity, including the area of law and order, and in particular crime, criminalization of society and oligarchisation of society, especially in organized forms, widespread corruption, the penetration of criminal officials in financial institutions and organizations. Next, in the international sphere, add, interference with internal affairs by foreign states, military and political instability, regional and local wars in neighbouring states. And that's to add to chapter three, where the threats are about threats. Agree with me that such a change will contribute to determining what is affecting Ukraine’s national security today. I still have suggestions that. And then I'll put it on second reading, but right now I'd like to conceptually take into account the additional threats and necessarily international terrorism, and the weakening of international authority in the world, also put the international sphere at risk for Ukraine's national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u88	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Change to the Concept of the Fundamentals of National Security Policy of Ukraine Registration No. 2062 is a government that is supported by the Committee. Please vote. [[16:51:23]] For 269 Decision taken, thank you. A draft law amending Ukraine’s legislation on insurance tariffs for compulsory public social insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases that have caused the loss of workability in terms of the size of the insurance tariff is under consideration. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. Is there no objection? National MP Pinzenik, there is a thought, please, and we will vote. Dear colleagues, we have an hour to vote. Okay, okay, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, we made a mistake when we passed the basic law and tried to repeat it. We set 67 taxes under this law and we don't determine the law in which case a certain rate is applied. You cannot accept bets and give the executive authority the right to determine in which case bets are used. So my proposal is to re-send the first reading. And the government has to determine in which case the criteria for each of the 67 bets are set.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u90	Thank you. National MP Matvienkov, please. Now, you're going to answer, generalize everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. I would like to support what my colleague Pinzenik has just said about the fact that when we passed the basic law, we made too many mistakes and took too many hasty and emotional steps. We are now returning to what we have warned that these steps will be repeated. Today, we are looking for ways, as with those who have paid these contributions, that is, through the budget, we have already reached the budget area, to increase the flow of payments to the fund. I'm for this law to be passed, so to speak. But still, let's go back to the basic law, we'll figure it out. There is no such regression mechanism in any country of the world. There is no unlimited ceiling on payments. Finally, let us entrust ourselves with the committee and see what happens to this law, how we define regressions and how medicine works in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u92	Thank you. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to say that, unfortunately, we are already in the habit of violating the requirements of the Rules when considering drafts that are included in their consideration under the so-called reduced procedure. And then there's the controversy, the unresolved questions, which is what the national MPs are talking about right now. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there is the Rules. For short, yes. But the rapporteur should inform the national deputies, the committee's report, and the summary procedure. We didn't discuss the same issue at all, and most people, anyway, don't know what they're talking about. So I'm asking you: let's stick to the requirements of the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that we have 30 more bills by the end of the day. Well, you all propose to include them all. So just now we're working, we're having a brief discussion. Please, Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor. In order to answer the questions immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u95	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by answering the questions that have already been asked here. This is not about compensating or paying for an incident that occurred in a business or in a field. On the contrary, we have studied the state of affairs on the committee today in all areas of the national economy over the past year and the past year and have concluded that not all can be paid under one comb, one and nine of the ten social tariffs from the accident to the fund. Today, there is so much difference between dangerous areas that we cannot do so. So we've brought from 0.2 to 13 percent. But now we're classifying 68 branches. Moreover, it is an incentive for those businesses, for those sectors that today have the greatest trauma and waste of time from accidents. So the committee, on the other hand, based on your wishes and observations, made such a classification for 68 classes. That's the first one. It's different. You probably know that every 8 minutes in Ukraine today, a person dies, dies in mines, under tractors, under cars, under bubbles falling on their heads, from cold, from hunger from loops and from many things. That's why we need to think about something else today, and give, in my opinion, a protocol mandate to the Minprompolitans, a protocol mandate to the Social Insurance Fund from accidents, to take measures to reintroduce today in Ukraine the protective functions of enterprises for workers, not that today the cost of working groups to protect workers has decreased by 10 times. Then, Victor Mikhailovich, we're not going to have an accident, but it's going to be in the least field in order to actually reduce our accidents, which have become four times more today, and the disabled in Ukraine, from the parliamentary hearing, you know, has gone up twice. Here's the picture for today. The committee therefore offers, and for that there is a first reading or acceptance as a basis to take all your wishes into account by working it out for a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u96	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat. Oh, excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u97	And with this, I would like to use it for the record, and here is our Secretary of the Papiev, and the head of the committee, and the reporter of the Dry, there's been a terrible mistake today. And I want the transcript to be correct: 258 votes in Bill 0907 just because we all voted in favour of the removal from Bill 3 of the article. And I'm asking that this is clearly reflected in our transcript. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u98	Thank you. Mikhail Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u99	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The need for the adoption of this law is based on article 47 of the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against Accidents in Production, which clearly states that insurance tariffs differentiated in economic groups, depending on the professional risk of production, are established by law every year. We did an analysis of the actual cost of the fund in each of the fields. And if we had 15 classes before that, we are now. 20 classes, we've moved to 67 classes, with saved subsidies for coal, iron ore and agriculture. There we have 0.2 percent of the salary fund. That's why we're proposing to support this project because we don't have an average per cent per country, it's both at 1.9 and it's still at 1.9 per cent. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss it? Dear colleagues! Before that, I just want to say that we're on the Conciliation Council, all at your suggestion, that's how long we have to look at the paperwork in an hour. Please, Carmazin, please. I'm the ones who signed up. One minute, written in writing. Two for, two for, 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u101	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! There's a problem. The problem is that the law has to be adopted, which is suggested to increase the occupational risk classes from 20 to 67 with a view to establishing more differentiated insurance tariffs, based on the size of the integrated occupational risk indicators, that's a positive thing. But at the same time, I'm afraid that what Mr. Pinzenik is talking about right now will not lead the workers of the sectors in question to a higher level of wage retention, because this will lead to lower wages. And then they say, "Who's to blame?" So I would like to say that we, by adopting this bill, have entrusted a number of committees with its serious work. Not on any committee to go to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u102	So you're in. Matvienkov has already performed, meaning Cherniak. Do you mind, Volodymyr Kirilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u103	The bill needs to be adopted because there are really serious risks and more and more people are suffering from production. There's practically a war going on and the idea itself is right, in my opinion. It can be supported conceptually. But on the other hand, there are threats that my fellow MPs have already said. I tend to accept it in the first reading, but work very seriously in the process of preparing for the second reading. And I support the proposal that I'm going to assign to several committees, including the Economic Policy Committee that I work with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u104	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u105	Dear National Deputies! Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Of course, we can welcome the government’s approach to trying to link the size of insurance rates to the professional risk class and, above all, to the actual data that was collected in the economic field in 2001 and the projected economic and social development indicators for 2003. However, the faction of SDPU(o) points out and supports the proposal that certain clarifications require the provision of legislation on the subject of public compulsory social insurance against an accident involving the payment of contributions by a natural person who uses a hired job in the area of personal services. In particular, the work of disabled persons, article 5 of the Law. As well as paying contributions to the disabled. busy people. We propose to adopt the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u106	Everyone understands the offer. I'm putting to a vote - 2 - "For", 2 - "Against" were spoken on the basis of a draft law amending the Ukrainian law "On insurance tariffs for compulsory public social insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases that caused the loss of work." [[on the size of the insurance tariff]] Please vote. [[17:04:18]] For 254 Decision taken. A draft Law is being announced for consideration. Please, Rudzkowski from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u107	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask and fellow MPs ask to put a bill to the vote on the transition from faction to faction. Please pass the word to Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u108	Vasil Vasilovich, please, Onopenko. No, no, Vasil Vasilovich, so much for us. Come on, please, come on. I don't know if the room is ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, we were already separated, in fact a few votes were not enough to vote before the exit, so there is a suggestion to vote again. It's about moving from faction to faction, you know, I reported. There is a finding of the Constitutional Court, there is a decision of the committee. Support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u111	Keep it up, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u112	I am voting on the second reading of the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy elected for the electoral list of political parties. Please determine by vote. [[17:06:05]] For 229 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Law on Metrology and Metrology is being announced for consideration. Vladimir Mikolaiovich Yeshchenko. Out of procedure, please, Lechchenka. One minute, I'd like your attention, dear colleagues. There's still an hour left to work, let's work. Can I have the ticket for the procedure, please? [See bullet 01:05:43/LENAF. 028] He's refusing. Please. Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u113	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship at its meeting on 10 July 2002, reviewed the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metrology and Metrology, No. 1064, and proposes a decision on the Committee, the proposed draft law to return to work, to read again, and to read again, and with the opinion of the National Deputies and Committee members to re-read.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, the offer is clear. So let's support the committee's proposal, because it's about re-reading the first reading. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to re-read the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Metrology and Metrology. Please vote. [[17:07:47]] For 322 Decision taken. Announcing the project. Please use the motive of Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u115	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I took the floor for reasons not to just take up your time. I took the floor to draw your attention to the conjecture of the violation of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is in this project, which we did not pay attention to, but that we should not have this project again. It is envisaged that cases of administrative misconduct will be dealt with by a specially authorized central authority. I remind you that justice in Ukraine is carried out solely by a court of law. And for the preparation of this project in the second, to submit it again to the Supreme Council, I ask you to delete all violations of the Constitution, other laws that I'm just now paying attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u116	Thank you. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u117	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to pay attention to the law that we voted on 2536 because we will find ourselves in a difficult situation. I want to emphasize once again what the problem is. I'm not against the law, I'm against the fact that we've set bets, but we haven't determined in which case which bet is applied. And it's a lot of complicated things to do. In the second reading mode, the Supreme Council law is being prepared. So I have a request that we go to the government to have the government develop the criteria for placing production in every 67 classes, and these classes of criteria should be included in the law in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u118	Roman Zvaric, please. Yes, and I'm asking Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich for the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u119	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am forced to leave the procedure. We have just made a decision to send a bill to work on the first reading without making any decisions on whether we approve or not. It seems to me that a bill should be put to the vote first, because otherwise we refuse the subject of the legislative initiative in his right to still demand effective voting on his bill. I mean, I'd like to ask you not to do that again in the future. In this case, it's not a very important bill, but such things shouldn't be in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u120	That's the right point. I think we should put to the vote the proposal of the subject of the legislative initiative and then the committee's proposal if they don't match. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on pesticides and agrochemicals is being introduced. Sergei Mikolaiovich Tereshuk. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, please. Well, Ribhub's gonna come forward, and the committee's gonna have to think it's our property already.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u121	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations on November 13th, reviewed the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, which deals with pesticides and agrochemicals. First of all, the law provides for the enactment of laws on pesticides and agrochemicals, plant protection laws, insurance laws in line with the principles and laws of European society. Making changes to these laws will enable us to harmonize our legislation with European societies. Here I'm going to name just a few points that really distinguish the project from the previous law. First of all, licensing is introduced for commercial activities related to production, trade in pesticides, and agrochemicals. There was no such situation before. We have 20 foreign companies in Ukraine, 1,500 of whom are now trading for protection. We need to get a license. Second, changes in registration issues have been made. The law softens the registration of remedies in our country. The ban on importing plant protection products into government registration is removed. This will enable our businesses to produce plant protection products and export them. We have a number of protections, such as the day, the cheese, the nitrogen, the polycarbins that we produce and export to other countries. Previously, it was possible to obtain import permits from the Cabinet of Ministers and from the Ukkrim Commission. There's no such thing today. Only those plant protection products that are registered can be imported. Could not close temporary folder: %s It is also important that the law clearly defines the situation of all the specialized central authorities in the field of agrarian politics, health, ecology, and natural resources. For there to be no confusion to be incomprehensible, there is a clear description of what a special authority with authority and what it does. The committee proposes to adopt the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u122	Minister of Agrarian Politics Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Sergey Mikolaiovich, don't waste your time, let's get out of here, we see you there and we love you, we respect you and so on. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u123	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, the Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals has been in force since 1995 and the legal and regulatory field has produced positive results, and during this period we have managed to direct the activities of participants in the pesticide market and users of this type of product to work in a civilized way. But also taking into account the world experience, the practice and the need to bring Ukraine's legislation to EU legislation, the changes proposed by the national deputy Tereshuk and you have with proposals. We have more than 300 chemical, biological, other plant - growth regulators working, registered. Amendments to the law allow them to be used rationally. I want to let you know that we used to use 120,000 tons of different pesticides, agrochemicals of an old-fashioned type. Today, 17 to 18 thousand tons, with 20 to 40 grams per hectare. So today you need a clearer, more civilized and, I would say, a flexible system and registration, and the use of control and elimination, the destruction of these pesticides. We've been working on this bill for a long time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u124	Thank you for working so long. We don't have to tell this, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u125	And please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u126	Yeah, 2 on, 2 on. Carmazine, please. Well, I'm looking at who's written down, respected colleagues. Carmazine, you're in for it or you're in for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u127	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished people of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies. This law is, of course, clear that it was issued from us by the European Union, it is clear that this law kills its own production. And I don't understand what we're rehearsing about. We have all our industrial enterprises that produced good fertilizers. Unlike the current Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, the project does not determine the cases for which such permission is to be granted, nor does it permit the import of unregistered pesticides and agrochemicals into the customs territory of Ukraine. Thus, I believe that the solution to the issue of granting or refusing to grant these permits will depend solely on the authorized officials of the central executive body of environmental and natural resources, which is called: specially authorized. I believe that this law should be adopted, but I must oblige the committee to make a warning about the changes that allow for the introduction of research batches of pesticides and agrochemicals for testing and so on. What Is an Experimental Party? How big is it supposed to be? I warn you that we're actually producing in sums, in other cities we're just going to dig.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u128	Thank you. National MP Kirilchuk, please. Are you in favour or against? And your argument. Recorded by Kirilchuk Eugen. None. So it's a yes. But there is Eugene Kirilchuk. No, not from the committee, two for, two against. Once again, calm down. Ivan Alexandrovich, I'm doing everything you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u129	The comments made by the deputies can be corrected in a second reading. And we're going to propose, in the first reading, that we accept it so that we can actually develop our own production. Because today, almost 80 percent or more of this is coming from outside Ukraine. So the first reading should be accepted, though there are many observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u130	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin. None. John the Rabbit. You're in or out, Ivan Alexanderovich. Yeah, get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the law is very important, but we have some warnings about this bill. Article 4 now plans to virtually liberalize imports into Ukraine of unregistered pesticides. It used to be this order: If there is an unregistered pesticide, for scientific or scientific purposes, the appropriate commission gave permission in order that was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. It is now suggested that you simply import an unregistered pesticide and there is no order approved for the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, if we accept it, we must write in a second reading that according to the order of the Cabinet of Ministers, or according to the order approved by the bill, perhaps even this. The second question is the issue of the release of pesticides that have not been registered. It says that pesticides are allowed to be released that have not been registered for export. This is certainly not the case with regard to European legislation or matters of the internal one today. And the third, the last one I want to make a note of. It's about article nine. It's about that. Well, I'm sure the same thing is going on here. If this law was previously subject to the licensing of production, it was subject to production, storage, transportation, and implementation. [[I'm done, you're in no hurry.]] Storage and transport are now abandoned. Let me put it this way. You know, a man bought a pesticide, he'd have to store it somewhere and so forth. It's not that that's what a person bought, it's that those parties that eventually or others are going to be implemented need to be transported in a specially equipped transport, because we know what other things are leading to. Therefore, honourable Members, we must introduce these amendments and then we can adopt this bill. Without these rights, this bill cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u132	Sergei Shevchuk. None. Please, Vladimir Cherniak. Let's work, not the only motivation to use. Please. Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u133	Dear colleagues! In this way, in my opinion, the bill cannot be adopted. What do we want? Should our fields be littered with pesticides, agrochemicals, or should we grow organic produce? What course, what development strategy do we have? I think we should have a development strategy for organic production. If we liberalize the import of pesticides by law, if we ensure that this law provides for the release of unregistered pesticides, jadechemics, what will be the consequences? I think we should send the law to read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! I'll put it to a vote. It was written down. Everyone who wanted to sign up. I'm betting on a vote on adoption on the basis of a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on pesticides and agrochemicals. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Please vote. [[17:21:53]] For 322 Decision taken. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced as a result of parliamentary hearings "Societies, media, authorities, freedom of speech and censorship in Ukraine". Mikola Tomenko is a reporter. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u135	Dear colleagues! A bill for adoption is proposed for your consideration in the first reading, which was based on the following principles, which were most debated both at the hearings and in the media. The first block of problems is access to information and responsibility for non-information. We suggest that we clarify, edit the Code of Administrative Offences so that everyone understands that they have to provide information in time and have administrative responsibility for it. If you'll excuse me. The second block is linked to a halt to the discussion on censorship, since if it is prohibited in the Constitution, it must be interpreted and said what it is. So it's going to be a choice of what censorship is and what's responsible for it. And the third block is the most complex and responsible in terms of journalistic demands. This is a situation surrounding lawsuits. The first group of problems is a solution without a lawsuit, when we write an option when you can try to correct information, apologize for false information, and not transfer the trial to court. In an alternative, when it comes to the trial, after a long discussion, and here, our position coincides with the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which we can go to. We can't go to the top of a lawsuit, it's unconstitutional, it's non-democratic, but we can edit sums of lawsuits, which are particularly at the district, local level unwarranted, by regulating government duties. If the lawsuit is in realistic figures, that's 1 percent. If it gets thousands and 100,000, and then millions, respectively, we raise the government's tax, so we find compromise. If a person is truly offended, he can realistically repay that amount. But if, for example, the head of the district administration decided to close the district newspaper and file a lawsuit of 2 million, it is necessary to react in some way. So there were a lot of suggestions. We ask for support in the first reading, and we will be actively involved in the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u136	Thank you. Yeah, two-for-two-again. Yuri Carmazin, please, for or against you. Carmazine, go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u137	Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, Party of Protectors of Homeland, Solidarity. I am certainly in favour of making the definition of the Information of Censorship in the Law, although it is prohibited by the Constitution. And it's a shame to say that at the 12th year of independence we're talking about that we have the chief chancellor in the country doing censorship, that we all have unlimited owners with their censorship channels. So I would like to propose to article 45 "prim" after the words "government officials, officials." add also "owners of these organs", then the honorable oligarchs belong there. I'd like to suggest that we anticipate a second reading, and I'm talking conceptually, and I'm talking about a change in the Criminal Code, because here is what turns out that censorship, which applies to journalists, is a form of obstruction of activity. And the last. It says here that the media journalist is relieved of his responsibility for spreading information that does not correspond to reality when such information is of public interest. There's a river channel in Odessa that's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u138	Are you in favour or against?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u139	I'll tell you what, I'm sorry. Who's just taking over and under the influence of Mayor Bodelain is lying. So I'm in charge of excluding this, this position where you get rid of responsibility. Because you have to answer for what you said, no matter who it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u140	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, you're in. I see. Please, National Deputy School. You "for"? Out of place, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u141	Of course, I'm here to vote in favour and adopt the law. But more specifically, write down the concept of censorship. Because it's very vaguely written. This is not to be overlooked, but it should be clearly stated what censorship is, what it will be for, what it will be for, what it will be for, what it will be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what it's going to be for, what So this is where we need to adopt this bill on parliamentary hearings. The media."we just need to make it a little bit tighter on censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u142	Thank you. Yeah, who's up for it? We're on it, one minute. Wait a minute. If "against" is yes, no, no. You don't have to. All of it. National MP Pavlovsky, do you mind? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u143	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I am against the fact that the law did not clearly define censorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u144	Okay, come on, Mikhailo Antonovich, we're gonna be okay. If you're "against" the law or "against" say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u145	"For" for this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u146	That's it, thank you. Turn off the microphone. We have two pros, two opposites. Who's "against"? I am voting on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act on amending certain laws of Ukraine as a result of parliamentary hearings “Societies. The media. The government. Freedom of speech and censorship in Ukraine." People's deputies are asked to determine by vote. [[17:28:01]] For 363 Decision taken. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of individual provisions in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Sudokustance of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Minister of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinović Turn on the microphone, please. Oh, you'll be here. Please. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Onischuku. Please explain your suggestions for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u147	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Your point is that a bill has been drafted to implement the law on the judiciary, namely the implementation of a direct rule of transitional regulations, which has been commissioned by the government to amend other legislative acts in order to bring them into line with the law that has been adopted. In this case, it is purely terminological changes that are being made and the introduction of those institutions that are envisaged for the creation of the law on the judiciary. There's no other conceptual money. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u148	Thank you very much. Have a seat, please. Is Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk there? Mikola Vasilovich, please. You've only got 30 seconds left. The minister left 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u149	The minister made the contents of the bill quite clear. The committee supports it and we can vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u150	Thank you. Yuri Anatolyevich, you're here. Can we vote? Turn on Karmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u151	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Respectful national MPs are certainly very important to the changes that are now being prepared. They're basically all written out. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that 62 people's deputies signed a petition to the Constitutional Court for unconstitutional recognition of what is provided for in the law on the judiciary -- the creation of a court of appeal in Ukraine. You and I have predicted it. 10,5 million Now, the money is going to go into the creation of this institution. So in view of what I'm saying, I'm paying attention to the members of the committee who are going to be cooperating, and generally to the national deputies, that we can save these costs in the budget and not just blow them up if we make the necessary changes during the second reading, and we're going to make changes to the law on the judiciary, and we're not just going to be blindly guided by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u152	Thank you. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring individual provisions into line with the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice. Please vote. [[17:30:59]] For 365 For 365. Decision taken. In general, huh? Is there no objection? I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of this bill as a whole as a law. Please vote. Can't I hear any objections? [[17:31:30.]] For 332 To -333. Well, you should have said right away, I just didn't see it. Well, I'm sorry, we'll count now. Well, I understand, well, I didn't just see! People were standing there, you weren't seen. Let's make it right now. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulations on the production, production and use of precious metals and precious stones and on the control of transactions with them, on bringing gold and silver products into line with inter-State standards. Macasaria, please give us 30 seconds to reason. Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. And for the transcript, I want to say that the previous draft of the law was passed as a law as a whole. We voted. Well, the will of the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill submitted for your consideration is designed to improve the individual rules of the law in force on the basis of its practical application and experience over the past five years. The goal of the project is to improve the state’s probative control of the circulation of precious metals, precious stones. In order to achieve this goal, the project is intended to provide samples for the production of gold and silver products in accordance with interstate standards, to establish the responsibility of business entities for quality imported into Ukraine of jewelry and household products made of precious metals without State glue, or to counterfeit government-provided clay. The draft law was reviewed by a profile committee and approved for adoption as a basis. Please support our position and the government committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u154	Thank you. Associate Head of the Economic Policy Committee, Oleg Anatoliyovich Krályov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u155	Dear colleagues, in Bill 3 of the Rules. First: bring our trials into line with Europeans. The second is that it is not only those who place samples or those who produce them but also those who sell them. And third. This is the purchase of gold for the country's gold reserve from pawnbrokers who buy gold from the population. As the profitability of these pawnshops is high enough, the Government believes that it is possible to replenish the reserves. The Committee supports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u156	Dear colleagues, yes, let's get to the discussion. Carmazine signed up. Please. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u157	Dear People's Deputies, Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, Solidarity, the Party of Fatherland Defenders. This law provides for changes and tests for precious metals in line with interstate standards. So I'm asking, is this what Ukraine needs today, is that exactly what the Ukrainian State Security Concept is? I have the impression that now what the government and Minfin are offering, it's all going, it's lobbying the interests of Western firms, and for Ukraine, these laws are going to work a little bit. So I think that the proposals that we're talking about supplementing the law with the rules on the first priority implementation of these jewelry products that are bought into the population and not bought out to the State Fund, in principle, are positive. But I'm against us just opening the borders for these products that are made, God knows where, all the more, that serious smuggling is now going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u158	Thank you. National MP Teryohin with motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u159	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that this question, I don't know how it ended up on another committee, this question is about monetary gold, and Athens, and gold products that have always been developed by the Committee on Finance and Banking. So I'm just advising him today to take it off to the two committees, the one represented by the Royal Deputy and the Finance Committee, to renegotiate with Minfin and bring these changes to the Supreme Council in two weeks. Before that, I would not recommend that the people's deputies vote even in the first reading for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u160	Thank you. National Deputy Cherniak, please. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u161	Dear colleagues! This is the sphere of activity that requires government regulation -- precious stones, metals, their production, production, use -- is a very specific and lush sphere of social life, so the bill needs to be regulated by legislation, and there are changes that allow more efficient use of regulation in this area. At the same time, I think we need to work further on the issue of pricing in this area. The question of price is not solved here, and in the process of preparing for second reading it needs to be addressed. I think the MPs do have a reason to support him today in the first reading and in preparing for the second reading to make some adjustments. Finally, each deputy wears a stone behind his armpit, usually precious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u162	I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production, production and use of precious metals and precious stones and control of operations with them (for bringing gold and silver products into line with inter-State standards. The committee's proposal is to take it as a basis. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[17:38:17]] For 278 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Law on State Prizes on the Establishment of Prince Danil Galicki's Medal is being announced for consideration. This question was discussed at the Conciliation Council. Is there a need to report? Do you have the papers? Let's vote on the basis. Please, Taras Blackwall, the line, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u163	The thing is, really, Danil Galicsky's figure is remarkable, and for the prize it's the same as, let's say, the Union had an adequate Order of Alexander Nevsky and others. But the thing is, there are two inadequacies. First. The very significance of the figure does not correspond to the level of the medal. We insist that there be Danil Galicsky's Order for much greater observances. And the second. Danilo Galicki is not the prince, but the king, this is recognized by history, so it's just a historical mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u164	Dear colleagues! Let's vote on the basis, and when we work on it, let's take all the comments into account. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes for the Establishment of Prince Danil Galicki's Medal for Admission. Please vote. And then we can go to the Order. [[17:39:53]] For 314 Decision taken. Please, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov, offer. Turn on the microphone, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u165	I don't think there's any need to place a prince or a king in the prize. It was the Order of Suvorova, not the Count of Rome, and it was the Order of Kutuzov, not the Prince of Kutuzov, and it was the Order of Alexander Nevsky, not the Prince. Therefore, we need not be attached to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u166	So, let's say we call the Order of Danil Galicki, vote and adopt the law. What will we deal with him? I'm voting on this proposal for the adoption of the project as a law by completing the Order of Danil Galicsky. Is there a denial? The committee doesn't mind? One minute, take off your vote. The committee doesn't mind? Georgi Korniyovich! You don't? I'm voting for the adoption of this project as a law that takes into account the proposals that were made here -- the Order of Danil Galicki. [[17:41:29]] For 345. Decision taken. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act is being announced for consideration. First Deputy Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee, Omelchenko Andri Volodymyrovich, please. Out of the way. It's very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u167	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill was drafted to implement article 29 of the Ukrainian Post Office Act, adopted by the Supreme Council on 4 October 2001. The purpose of this bill is to bring Ukraine’s legislative acts into line with the law on postal communications. This is especially true of the harmonization of the terminological apparatus, the issue of the granting of the right to engage in activities related to the payment and delivery of pensions not only to state - owned enterprises, but also to enterprises related to other forms of property, according to Ukrainian legislation. As well as agreeing on the responsibility of businesses to consumers. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, supported this bill and noted that it could be adopted in the first reading. The Professional Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications also supported the bill. Please vote in favour of the bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u168	Long Stanislav Ivanovich, please. Let's get out of here. Turn on the Long Mike. First Deputy Head of the Committee, please. Then two in, two in. This time Carmazin is second.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u169	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, considered a bill introduced by Kabmin to amend some of the laws on postal communications and considered it appropriate to consider it in the first reading and to accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u170	Thank you. Yeah, let's get down to business. Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u171	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I'm against this law, but I don't understand why Krašta, who's doing the planning and has big profits, doesn't provide financial support and assistance to her branches in places by redistributing funds between district postal companies? Does it not introduce centralized funding, but leads to bankruptcy? Is it also not clear why a public postal company takes the position of a foreign consumer and is not responsible for the situation in its branches? And I'm proposing in the draft Postal Liaison Act that we assume a higher responsibility for the work of our departments on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u172	Yuri Carmazin. So you don't mind, do you? Yuri Carmazin, are you in favour or against? Yuri Anatolyovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u173	Dear People's Deputies, Yuri Carmazin, Our Ukraine, Party of Protectors of the Country, Solidarity. Of course I'm for the people to live better. I am firmly opposed to the closing of the mail in the villages today. It's categorical. Sadly, though, this is not the subject of this law. This law, which was adopted in 2001, is subject to changes to the laws on entrepreneurship, on the basis of the social protection of persons with disabilities, on communication. And it's just that there's an elementary agreement with the Post Office Act. I have studied it carefully, and I do not see any major dangers there that would lead either to travelling or to any other difficulty. So I think you can accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u174	Yeah, one's for, one's for for. Please, Semenyuk. Are you in favour or against Valentina Petrovna? Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u175	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you, please tell me if you will eat the cake, knowing that there is a mouse in it? Of course not. The bill that has been filed is now virtually ignored with one condition: to take away the right of the post office to distribute pensions. I would like to say that on June 20, 2001, the Constitutional Court conducted a hearing that only state enterprises and associations carry out the corresponding supply of pensions to citizens and so forth. The same bill, in article 22, suggests that two words be substituted for each other. That means we're going to transfer the right to reproduce through banks. Please tell me when a woman comes from the village to the district center to receive a pension. This will also result in a reduction of all mail workers. That's why it's impossible to support this bill today because it narrows down the rights of citizens, and that's a contradiction to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u176	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. So one is "for", two is "against". Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u177	Thank you. The Communist faction, Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons. I do not agree with my colleague Karmazin, who says that the problem of pension delivery, including in the village, is not the subject of this law. Yes, it is. And the point is to eliminate the state monopoly for the supply of pensions to state-owned enterprises. So I am absolutely convinced that the adoption of this law will have very serious consequences, because when it comes to the city, for example, a person can reach the bank. And if you're in a village where there's no bank branches, where you have to go to the district center to get a pension. So I am absolutely convinced, and what's more, that transport connections are completely blocked today. So I'm definitely against accepting this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u178	Roman Zvaric, please. Well, after we make the decision, you'll make the replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u179	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, sometimes I sit here and listen to what's said, and I think I'm sitting on another planet. So this bill is actually purely legal and technical. If I read this bill carefully, what was said here, I don't find a single word. I mean, it's about bringing the wording that's in these laws into line with the Post Office Act. What are we talking about? I believe that this bill should be adopted not only on the first reading but also on the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u180	Yes, of course, three against, two against. I am voting on the adoption of a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act. Please vote. [[17:49:40]] For 175 Yes, the decision is not made. It's a motive. Oh, the line. Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u181	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, my opinion has now been distorted and it has actually been shown that whether I'm not figuring out the law or whether there's really a bomb lying there. I would like to quote to you what is written in article 1 of the Communications Act, what is proposed to be changed. It was the delivery of written letters, material values, and the execution of the remittances of natural and legal persons regarding remittances. It's suggested that we replace "delivery of mail." [[service]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u182	Turn off the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u183	".. the execution of consumer orders regarding."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u184	Please make a comment or offer to the Head of the State Committee, Omelchenko Andrija Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, the question is that these questions have already been adopted by you and are enshrined in the Post Office Act of October 4, 2001. This is only about technical harmonization of the rules of other laws. This is already a decision. And these provisions are contained in the law on postal communications.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u186	Do you understand the offer? I'm addressing the faction of Ukraine. At least listen to what we're talking about. It's a government bill, but you'd vote it out of solidarity. I am voting on the adoption of a draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Post Office Act. And please the MPs. We voted 20 times, we don't have to. Please vote. Then you didn't scream. [[17:51:52]] For 230 Decision taken. A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s laws on social protection for young scientists is being announced for consideration. Please Cremen Vasil Grigorovich, Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u187	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. This is what we're talking about. Ukraine's Science and Technology Act is being amended a little bit to determine who a young scientist is. The following line is inserted: "young scientist under the age of 35." And the second amendment to article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Social Development and Development for Young People in Ukraine. This article, written at the time of the birth of children in a young family who received a loan, may help the family to pay off the loan at the expense of the remaining businesses where a young couple, a father or a mother, is added that these rights are distributed to young scholars. There's a broader formulation, but the point is this. Please support the social protection of young scientists in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u188	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this law? It's understandable. I am voting, if there is no objection, on the adoption as a basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the Social Protection of Young Scientists]] Please vote. [[17:53:46]] For 367 Decision taken. Should we vote in general as a law? I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a whole as a law of this draft law under number 2254. Please vote. [[17:54:10]] For 386 The law is passed, thank you. A draft law amending articles 243-5, 243-15 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code on court decisions is being announced for consideration. Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u189	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? This is a very important question that concerns the legal nonsense that is today in the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. We're all stuck with this. What is it? The decisions of the local courts relating to the actions or omissions of the territorial and district commissions in the election of deputies and heads of rural, rural, urban, district councils and members of the Supreme Council are not contested. And all of us were witnesses when the people in the elections were taken in bribes, and these foolish, baseless decisions could not be accused in the appeal or in the cassation order. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that in accordance with article 55 of the Constitution, all our citizens have the right to challenge court decisions in an appeal and constitutional order. So this law is designed to bring our legislation back to the constitutional plane and bring the CDC into line with the Constitution. I'm asking you to uphold the law in the first reading so that the profile committee can work on it and we can get rid of this legal marsam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u190	Yes, is there a need for an argument from the committee? None. Who insists on the discussion? Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u191	Honorable National MPs. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. The proposed changes by the Turkish and Sas people's deputies are absolutely democratic. What happened during these parliamentary elections showed the actual usurpation of power exercised by the judicial authorities. Only a change in this regime will show how many criminal acts have been committed and are being continued by these courts today. So these proposals, changes to articles 243 and 245 and 15 of the Civil Procedure Code, have to be accepted, and in both the first and second readings. And thank the authors very much for making these changes and for bringing them into the order of the day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u192	Please, Boris Illrich Oilynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u193	Thank you. The only question. Well, I'm done. When I was my age, this code is fed to the fuck out of him. When are we going to adopt this procedural code? They're already crying in Europe, and NATO is threatening to dissolve if we don't adopt this code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u194	In this session, Boris Illihu. We have this obligation. And there was a conversation: the Justice Minister promises to work out and submit these documents. I'm betting on voting on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 243-5, 243-15 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code on Court Decisions. [[5:58:02]] For-195 The decision is not taken. The factions. Dear colleagues! With motive? National MP Mironenko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u195	Please give the floor to Petra Nikolaevich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u196	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u197	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'm asking you on behalf of our faction to re-vote the law that we voted on, 0907 with the deletion of the third article. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I have a request, time is very short, but I wanted to ask our colleagues to vote on the draft law on the write-off and restructuring of household debt, housing and utilities, gas consumption and electricity, with the deletion of the 3rd article. That's what the committee suggested. Let's delete this third article relative to penny. It will be very, so to speak, a great burden on each citizen, who, especially today for an objective reason, does not pay their wages at the proper time, high prices, tariffs, and much more. I request a vote, Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u198	Peter Mikolaiovich, I will immediately say that, unfortunately, this law is adopted as a way of re-voting the law, I don't know the article of the law. Please, calm down. Let him study the Legal Department, make an offer. I don't want to make illegal decisions. Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u199	Dear colleagues! We still have a chance to save the face of the Supreme Council, which we are now said to have hit the dirt. Around the world, there is a procedure for the prosecution of court decisions, in the entire civilized world, where civil society is built. A citizen, a man can judge the state, can sue the courts. We don't accept today's amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code, I don't understand. Civil Procedure Code. The adoption of this law, these changes, is a step towards democratization, de-bureaucratization, de-corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u200	Thank you. Roman Zvaric, please. Then Onitchuk. Dear colleagues! We either have to finish the job there, or we have to keep working. Let's face it, what kind of questions do you want to break?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u201	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I will not rape the House with requests for a vote on this bill, although I draw your attention that this bill is not of a political nature. He wears a very legal one. We made a big mistake when we passed a law that allowed the courts of the first instance to make final decisions. This has to be canceled. So it's a specific offer. I propose to send this bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work. So that we can still look at it at the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u202	Thank you. Do you have an offer for this, Terjehochin? So let's figure this out. Nastyek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u203	Mikola Onischuk, faction of the political party of industrialists and entrepreneurs and the Hard Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Despite the general validity of the bill, which deals with changes to the procedural law, it lowers, that is, it leaves outside the limits of regulation a whole range of important issues relating to special procedural terms that should be applied in cases where decisions relating to the application of electoral legislation are being challenged. So this bill really needs a lot of work, let me stress again, despite its general accuracy. And maybe there's some point in turning him back to work on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-20-m1.u204	I propose re-reading the draft law amending articles 243-5, 234-15 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code on court decisions for re-election, for re-reading the first reading. [[18:03:16]] For 307 Decision taken. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock. Questions will be considered according to the schedule of meetings for this plenary week. Thank you for your fruitful work.
