ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:09]] Registered -427 There are 427 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Harmash Galina Fedorovna and Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna. Let's welcome them, we want all kinds of goodies. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 5 Wednesday's regulation we have 30 minutes to make a statement to the people's deputies, offering proposals, announcing requests for applications and messages. I'd like to ask the national MPs to sign up for the speech, and in the meantime, I'll announce the parliamentary requests that have come. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Maria Markusz to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the promotion of the company Agrotech in the Tachiv region in the calculation of the cost of the bank "Ukraine" for the construction of roads. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:35]] For the 180. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the change in the status of members of the Prygma Press and PIC-2 m. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:04:04]] For-74. The decision is not taken. Leonidas Czernovetskow - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an experiment on the registration of homeless citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:31]] For-56 The decision is not taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the revitalization of the closing of the government commission to study the activities of the UN-OPA. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:58]] For 118 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the financing of the unfinished construction of the Borislav District Hospital in the Hersonian Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:29]] For 122 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the shore-building of the Kakhov waterfront near the village of Velika Lepeticha, the village of Mala Lepeticha, and the village of the town-like Gornostivka of the Herson region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:01]] For-143 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski, I'm sorry, Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the conduct of the indexation and calculation of the shares of the Bank "Ukraine" with the employees of the Radospa "Vinogradowski" of the Zakarpatsk Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:34]] For-143 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Sobolev, Catherineczuk, Morozov - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the State’s promotion of blood donation and its components. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:02]] For a-117. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Baloga, Ivancho, Mihović - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the entry into the state of rural and rural councils of civil engineering officials with the status of civil servant. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:36]] For-187 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the publication of information on the financial costs for the public discussion of the initiatives of the President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:04]] For-142 Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky and Pavel Žebrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the completion of the Maryan School of Education in Baraniv district of Žitomir district, which is 90 years old since its establishment. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:39]] For 211 Decision taken. John Kuras to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the return of a building on the street of Vladimirska, 44 in Kiev for the transfer to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:09]] For-174 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Baloga, Ivancho, Mihović - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the capital renovation of the architecture of the Zakarpata Film Centre in the town of Mukachevo. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:43]] For-183 Decision taken. Igora Jeremjeyeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the long-term non-payment of the debt owed to construction organizations for the construction of a school in the village of Brežnica in the district of Manov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:17]] For a-117. Decision taken. Sergey Slabenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration, on the status of the security of the Wallinian courts. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:47]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the implementation of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Their Social Protection. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:16]] For a-117. Decision taken. Mikoli Katerenczuka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the provision of official information on measures to enhance public security in connection with terrorist acts that took place in Vinnice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:47]] For-147 Decision taken. Yuri Boyka to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster did not pay compensation to residents of the Barish district of Kiev who had been displaced from the alien zone since September 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:20]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Odessa’s city head, for the purpose of exacerbating the criminogenic situation surrounding media activities in Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:52]] For 175 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the prosecution's response to the wrong implementation of legislation regarding the National Hortica Reserve. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:24]] For 178. Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of the criminal case concerning the theft of property of the civil protection fund for the disabled of Rebirth. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:51]] For 135 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the formal investigation by police officers of the city of Kirovgrad of charges against the inhabitants of Kirovgrad of the theft of electricity. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:20]] For 112 Decision taken. Leonidas Vernigori to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his reckless treatment of his duties as officials of the Uzgorod City Department and Zakarpatsky District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the Prosecutor’s Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:52]] For-125 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the rules of investigation of the murder in the Malovsky district of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:20.]] For 131 Decision taken. Jury of the Orobac to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the blocking of the investigation into the murder of a citizen of the Svetan district of Ivano-Frankiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:47.]] For-141 Decision taken. Mikhail Poljančić to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a terrorist act that took place on May 18 in the town of Uzhgrad in the apartment of Symchera. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:15.]] For-174 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Korniaková on the prosecutor's reaction to the failure to pay a salary of 100,000 dollars to 50 former employees of the Zaporozec boarding house, which is the subsidiary of the Chevchenk Zaporezki factory. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:50]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the head of the Chamber of Auditors of Ukraine on the use of budget funds by the Union of Chernobyl of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:16]] For-147 Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the head of the Zaporozhye District State Administration for the protection of the rights of Orthodox Christians in the village of Natalyvka Zaporzik district for freedom of worship. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:47]] For-126 Decision taken. Valeria Mishura to the head of the National Council of Ukraine on TV, radio talk about the size of cable operators’ license payments. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:15]] For 111 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption with the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the facts of improper application of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act by individual officials of the Odessa area law enforcement agencies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:54]] For 158. Decision taken. Stanislawa Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crisis situation with the payment of treatment in the central institutions of the Ministry of Health and the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:24]] For-151 Decision taken. Viktor Drachewski to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the repayment of the debt by the administration of the justice of the city of Nikopol for the construction work carried out by PMK2. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:52]] For-98 Decision taken. Just a minute. A little later on. Let's go now. But now we have the performances from the factions. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to the national MPs who signed up for statements, information, messages. On the board, please explain the names of the national MPs. Stanislaw Phydenko, Communist faction, please. Get ready for Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u2	Stanislav Phydenko, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Volin Please pass the word to Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u3	Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u4	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Zaporez area, Communist faction. I address you from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with such words. In agriculture, I will not call the region of my Zaporozhye and other areas of Ukraine a very difficult situation in the country. A village on the verge of a social explosion. So I'm addressing you, colleagues, and the government of Ukraine, let's turn our faces back to the producers. As a result of the cold winter and the dry spring of the winter, the peasants have almost lost their lives. What was sown in the spring suffers from drought. Irrigation is expensive and practically nonexistent. It's a terrible picture. The village, as in postwar years, is on the verge of extinction. Industrialists are on the verge of bankruptcy. What will the peasants harvest this year? We're kind of imagining it. If you take a square meter out of a dozen pieces and you can't get them together, because the little ones, you need a direct combination. And the cost is going to be several times higher than the profit. There will be practically no grain or straw. Today, even private - sector animals are on the brink of extinction. Drought makes it impossible to cook raw food, hay, and straw. Therefore, my electorates, district leaders, are asking us not to look at our successors at special meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of famine and the construction of monuments at the beginning of the third millennium, immediately to hold a special meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the invitation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine on a situation that took place in the agro-industrial complex. To produce an action program and take into account the following suggestions. First. Farmers credited by commercial banks who do not write credits, so it is necessary to oblige commercial banks under the State’s guarantees to allow for the extension of the credits involved in agriculture. Thermally allocate the purchase costs of both fodder grain and commodity wheat. That is to re-establish the procurement so that the producer has the opportunity to realize at a competitive cost its output to the state, not to brokers. Next. In 2003, it was necessary to provide a state reserve of soybeans. Four. Ban the harvesting of grains in 2003 without the preservation of straw until criminal responsibility. Next. Change the tax write-off mechanism in connection with force majeure. In agriculture, it is necessary to write off the existing debt, not the existing debt, but the one that is necessarily due to the new crop due to the cost of production resulting from weather disasters. And only cheat on businesses that have no debt at the moment of force majeure and its consequences. Next. Most rural councils are subsidized. It is therefore necessary to review the tax policy of businesses operating in the area and often register not that in the rural council or district, not even in the area, and to fill Kiev’s budget or in other neighbouring areas. Usually they don't hurt for the development of the land where they work on the ground, and in two or three years, they get as much out of her as possible by throwing everything away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u5	Thank you. Viachelav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u6	The government needs to make an effort to restore irrigation systems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u8	in Ukraine, which has been destroyed almost entirely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we're three minutes out, the microphones will be off. Please consider this. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Gurvitsu.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. During the twelfth year of state independence, the Ukrainian Parliament remains an institution that is free from ordinary citizens, a complex system of passes that is contrary to the practice of European Parliamentarianism. Please don't consider this a personal statement about criticism by the Head of the Supreme Council, but as a national deputy, I think it is necessary to make the following proposals. Since not only countries in Western Europe but also the vast majority of European post-communist states, including some former Soviet republics, have provided free access to and public awareness of the main premises of national parliaments. With this in mind, I propose that the leadership of the Supreme Council immediately implement a series of measures aimed at bringing the visiting regime of the Supreme Council premises into line with the traditions of European Parliamentarianism, starting with the next session of plenary sessions all day free visits by citizens of Ukraine and foreigners to the balcony of the Planning Hall of the Supreme Council. To this end it is possible to take the sector to 10-150 places where any person can go in order of a living order by presenting a passport and controlling the presence of dangerous objects. Secondly, I would like to introduce, starting in the next session of all days, when there are no planning sessions I, free visits to plenary meetings and culinary groups of tourists that will be formed both in the order of the living order and in the previous statements. Third, to create and significantly strengthen a special unit in Parliament's apparatus to promote the activities of the Supreme Council, including the organization of tours to the Parliament's premises. Fourth, release a tract in English, German, French, Spanish, and Russian on the activities of the Supreme Council and on the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, which could be obtained by any visitor. Fifth, organize an exhibition dedicated to the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that is constantly active and open to all visitors. And last but not least, to foresee, starting next year, the necessary budgetary funding for the proposed measures. I believe that the implementation of the proposed proposals will significantly enhance the openness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ordinary citizens, i.e. voters who have brought the MPs into this room to make the necessary legislative decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u11	Edward Gurwitz, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Self-Flying.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u12	Edward Gurwitz, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished guests of Parliament! The latest decision of the UN Security Council, the outcome of the summits and bilateral negotiations indicate that the seemingly insurmountable differences over the Iraqi issue in the family of democratic States have been minimized. Today, there are only minor nuances of a settlement. The foreign military presence in Iraq is in fact legalized and recognized by the world community as necessary. For example, the Polish contingent in Iraq will be officially on the NATO rear. Support for the overthrow of the bloody regime by an absolute majority of the Iraqi people has played a crucial role in changing the moods of the world, as I have personally seen in Iraq. The new evidence of the heinous crimes of Saddam Hussein found in recent weeks has denied even the most violent critics of the coalition. It is also clear that only the fall of the dictatorship in Iraq for the first time in years has created the necessary prerequisites for resolving the Middle East conflict. Had Saddam been the host of Baghdad, the Road Map would still have been irrelevant to the Palestinian leadership and not acceptable to the Israeli leadership. But world terrorism will hardly accept the loss of the Iraqi postdarmerie and the upcoming free democratic elections in that country pose a clear threat to family regimes in some neighbours. This is the case with Saddam's terminology, the mother of all the reasons for the need for armed order and stability in Iraq during the transitional period. The refusal to send our peacekeepers to Iraq would have been perceived abroad as another zigzag of Ukrainian politics, as a testimony to our lack of confidence and predictability. Once again, financial flows do not flow under the lying stone of a spineless policy. That the doors to the Ukrainian business to a promising market after military Iraq and Ukraine to a “club of States” whose positions are being heard can only be opened by clear political decisions. The risk of politics cannot be excluded. Bunin said the risk is greater than anyone who doesn't risk it at all. But there is no place for dependency in modern politics. In our army, there is little experience in participating in peacekeeping operations in various parts of the country. In addition to the real and professional skills that cannot be compared to those that can be obtained from rocket attacks on a civilian aircraft in Crimea or on Bravara, millions of dollars have been involved. And what we have recently poisoned into the Kuwaiti desert without adequate climate conditions is the responsibility of our battalion, not of the army, but of its leadership. Not only two but even one such sedition, such as Shkidchenko and Marchuk, will withstand the Butzefal of the Ukrainian army. Maybe they used to be scratches, but those days are long gone. For me, it is clear that the team of our volunteers and peacekeepers must be sent to Iraq and that, at the same time, there must be a trained company of high-ranking cowards and liars headed by Shkidchenko and Marchuk, otherwise there will be no more loud scandal. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Well, it's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u14	Last. I wish to inform the Supreme Council that his decree that the battalion would be subject to the General Staff was not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u15	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. Please, Valeriy Samowowski. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to follow the rules. Turn on the microphone. People's MPs will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u16	I want to give the word to Alexander Ivanovich Borzih.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u17	Alexander Borzich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u18	Borzih, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in the animal field. The Government’s introduction in 2001 of a mechanism for State support for milk and meat production created some favourable economic conditions for the gradual resurgence of the sector. However, as a result of the uncontrolled situation in the market for animal products in May of last year, there has been a negative trend toward a sharp decline in purchase prices for the specified types of products. For example, during the specified period, livestock prices decreased by 24 percent, and pigs by 40 percent. Using a monopoly on market conditions, processing enterprises are unwarrantedly dictated to farms today to purchase prices that are one third below their cost of production. At the same time, wholesale wholesale prices remain unchanged. Farms are forced to implement cattle and milk at such prices. As a result, last year this led to industry damage. The livestock, especially the dairy herd, had been reduced considerably. At present, the problem of cattle and milk production has increased further. Recyclers, motivated by the limited demand of the population for finished production, hold off the intake of this raw material, especially from the population, and when accepted, at no cost. It is virtually ignored the execution of Cabinet Decision 1964 on State regulation of the livestock market. However, such regulation requires objective economic information not only from households but also from reprocessing businesses. The latter do not provide such information by motivating it with a commercial secret. Another problem. In line with the new standard, milk from peasants is taken by protein, and processed products from the same milk are produced by fat. Experts ’ calculations show that at such an approach, farmers do not keep large sums of money, and processors are unjustifiably profited. Suggestions from places of interest on the return of VAT to households for processing meat and milk through treasury rather than processing companies deserve attention. In view of this situation and in order to prevent further destruction of the animal sector, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine would need to consider the problems identified and take effective action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u19	Thank you, too. The National Deputy Sitnik, here I have a note, conveys his word to Victor Terrence. Dear National Deputies! I ask your support that we continue to do this. If a national MP is present in the hall, let him pass on the word, no, next time we will not do so. Is there no objection? It's a deal. Please, Victor Terrence. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u20	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! Our faction is once again forced to draw attention to the acute problem of Ukrainians displaced to Ukraine under an agreement between the U.S.R.R. and the Polish National Liberation Committee, the September 9, 1944, the displaced Ukrainians from their ethnic lands: the Dutch, the Middle East, Lemkowščina, and the Transsidium. I remind you, Your Honor, that our faction made a draft decision to hold parliamentary hearings at the beginning of this session, and this draft decree was supported by the Human Rights Committee. He also had a positive conclusion from the Scientific and Scientific Administration. However, if you remember, there was a discussion in the hall about the draft decree, and the long debates usually end with what they always end up with — the draft decree did not get the required number of votes. And our faction today has taken into account all the remarks made by the MPs during the debate, including the remarks made by MP Michael Kosiv and others, and has prepared a draft new decision that we are bringing from this issue to the Supreme Council. We've also had constructive consultations with other factions, and now, before the draft decision is put into the hall, we'd like to testify again to you, your esteemed colleagues, the position of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on this issue. Focus on the main one. Parliamentary hearings on the problems of deported Ukrainians were long overdue. Hundreds of letters from deported Ukrainians are coming to our Human Rights Committee. I would like to stress that the parliamentary hearings are not going to talk about the deterioration of relations with Poland, about the review of the above-mentioned agreement, or about giving even a political and legal assessment of this act. The point is that Ukrainians who have moved from their ethnic lands have the same rights guaranteed by the Constitution as other Ukrainian citizens. It's about the changes that affect these citizens, the changes to the law on the status of war participants; it's about finally solving their cultural problems, because the culture of Lemkov, Podljuća, - It's a unique layer, a unique cultural layer that we have no right to lose. I mean, we need to listen to these people at parliamentary hearings and come up with specific problems. The problems that concern people are far more than what is called the so - called, so - called, cumin reform. And it's far more important for these people to solve the problem of the simplified crossing between Poland and Ukraine, so that they can visit their parents' graves, and it hurts them harder than how to run a one-year election of deputies and Kuchma, and thus continue Cuchma's mandate for another three years. So, your honorary colleagues, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, is categorical.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u21	Thank you. All of it. Turn off the microphone. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I have to put two problems in three minutes. First. I also mentioned yesterday that here in this room you and I thoughtfully accepted an anti-Ukrainian document -- it's a ratification of the Charter of National Minorities. Here are the first results of this, the deputy head of the National Bank, Mr. Schlapak, on May 23, sent an e-mail to which virtually the entire banking system, all banks of Ukraine are translated into Russian only. Here are the first results of what we've accepted. The other one. I must make an oral statement and appeal to the Prime Minister on behalf of the Interim Commission of Inquiry for which you voted. You know what's going on at Ukrainian customs today. They're practically not customs, they're open thief gates, and they're both large, and smaller officials, and they're turning the shadow capital into millions of dollars, no less. The commission started to work, and we started to have decent patriotic generals working with us, who themselves are interested in finally bringing about some sort of customs system, because Europe has already come under our borders, and we can't look like a gang today. It seemed to go well, but the commissions are now putting sticks in the wheels that they can. Mitko Kalenski’s head does not want to give the commission the status of competent authority. We were on the Polish side, and the Poles showed us these sheets to the mile, where the cars moving to the Ukrainian side are registered. On the Ukrainian side, there's a record of this kind, about half a meter in total, that is, the huge transports that drive meat, sugar, fat are even going to Ukraine. And today our manufacturer is going to be overwhelmed by the fact that he can't sell it. We demand that the Prime Minister, Mr. Janukovich, if you would like the MP's commission to set up a joint committee on the borders, please let's create a joint parliamentary and government commission. And let's try to put the order on the border. They're laughing at us, the same Poles. For the Poles, it's convenient, because when they cross the border, when they pay their VAT, they get their money, and Ukraine is poor and poor. I'm done. And I'm just asking you, Mr. Prime Minister, to intervene in this situation. Because neither Medcom nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs want to do this. And we need to get the documents on the Polish side. Then you and the Ukrainian people will be able to report and show us what is going on at Ukrainian customs today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u23	Please, Valentina Seminouk. Get ready, Omelchenko, no, Maiden.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u24	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I'd like to make a statement to the faction of the Socialist Party. The privatization programme, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is presented without taking into account the proposals that were considered on 26 February 2003 in the Supreme Council at parliamentary hearings on "The Impacts and Perspectives of Privatisation in Ukraine". Hearings have shown that with the change in socio-economic and political formation in the state, social tension is on the rise. And it's only natural. Because the engine of socio-economic transformations in Ukraine is criminalized power, which is primarily aimed at enriching the clans that are close to it. The beginning of the era of acceptance was the criminal decrees of Prime Minister Kuchma, who had the power of the law, but most of them served to rob citizens of Ukraine through a variety of trusts, then continued the presidential decree, which determined the corporateization of state enterprises, and then the privatizations, which in turn distorted the concept adopted by the Supreme Council, the concept of privatization. So far, despite the fact that the decrees in the economic sphere have ended, according to the Transitional Statute and the Constitution of Ukraine, the dissolution of the state in 1999 continues under presidential decrees and orders only under the heading "Secretically. It is not necessary to publish them" so that the people of Ukraine do not know about them. Therefore, it is a confirmation of the so-called privatization when state property, worth billions of US dollars, according to the President's decrees and decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers becimto, in accordance with Ukrainian laws, becomes the property of members of the clan in power. The nations are causing tremendous damage! Yes. moved to the hands of the oligarchs of the metallurgical, mining, energy, chemical industry, oil mining, processing industry, such as the Ukrnafta. An estimate of the value of government property and utilities is made by companies and firms for the purchase of a particular oligarch. The social cost of health, science, education, and culture is becoming more difficult each year. High - income enterprises owned by the State are sold at no cost to the narrow clan environment and family members. What's worth being created in the Office of the President's Office is what's called the State Administration, which has chosen to own the largest businesses in profit! Special attention is being given to representatives of the majority who today are asking questions about the vote for the privatization programme. The Socialist Party faction asks: first of all, let's take a closer look at the results that we've had in privatization, and then we'll accept the privatization programme accordingly, but first, we need to examine in detail. The entire statement will be published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry, I just automatically missed the name Levy Grigorovich Lukyanenka. Please, Leveko Grigorovitch, and then Omelyan Pupuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u26	Ukrainian Republican Party, Yulia Timoshenko faction Lukyanenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Supreme Council, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to talk about marking this year's seventy-year famine in Ukraine. It was an extraordinary event, and it has great significance for today as well. But what I would like to say is that as we study our past history, we must look at today. Today, our agriculture is in a tragic state, a huge number of crops have froze out the cold, and then drought has dried out. Banks are now lending loans to agricultural enterprises under a threefold mortgage. It's a robbery approach, it's a destructive approach. It is clear that businesses will not be able to pay such a large sum because they are in an extremely poor position. Hence, honourable voters and honourable deputies of the Supreme Council! Julia Timoshenko's faction has offered three questions for our discussion of Ukraine's food security. This topic is extremely important, and we ask Vladimir Mikhailovich to ask this question for a separate discussion. I will now return to the 1970 ’ s to the famine in Ukraine. A state commission was set up, the Supreme Council held parliamentary hearings on February 12th, and the Supreme Council then approved a decision to allocate a seat in Kiev on the street of Gruszewski for the building of a memorial memorial. After that, we held a meeting of the Supreme Council with the daytime famine agenda in 1932, but after that, the State Commission did little. Huge works were to be carried out by the fourth Saturday of November of this year. However, the design work is not yet done, the competition is not announced, and thus construction is not yet started and cannot begin. So the project of building a memorial is in danger, for it is likely to be torn down. Finally, at the meetings held at Yanukovič Prime Minister with the State Committee to commemorate the victims of the famine, one of the main points was the creation of a fund to raise funds to build this memorable memorial. That fund would have to announce a collection of funds from all the Ukrainians around the world. To this day, this fund has not been created. We need to speed this up. The problem of the past for us is the problem of today's famine. Knowing the past will help us to solve today’s problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Omelian Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u28	Please pass the word to Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u29	Puzakov National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u30	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I'd like to get an answer to a simple question. Why did the state turn its back on the common people? Why do we have more beggars every day? Why is it that at every turn the average citizen is persecuted by evil, hatred, lies, contempt, and indifference to their distresses and woes? Today, pensioners who are footballing from all over the world have fallen into this watershed. They are covered by the state and especially by the community’s damage, since no one has the secret that all pensioners pay in time for insurmountable utility services without looking at low-income pensions. Yes, the resident of the city of Kyrovalska Galina Grigorovna and her husband receive a total of 310 bracelets. For utilities, he pays 110 dollars. A lot of money owed to people to bury their son. And now he's paying 170 bucks. And they have 30 dollars to live on for a month. So in these 30 bracelets you can buy one letter of oil, three kilograms of potatoes, divided by two potatoes per day, one half of them by three days, and one by one by one. And for dairy and meat products and language, there can be no such thing as milk and meat. Then count the gentlemen who are left with this man for a living. Is it not a famine at such a high rate of economic development of the country as the President and the government has noted? It's not a crime against a man who spent four years in the grip of war, rebuilt a war-torn farm, strengthened his power, and now he's dividing the spoon of oil and one or two potatoes a day. What have these people done? Today, hundreds of thousands of such pensioners are left with only water in their rations, and they pay disproportionate prices for it. And Kirovovovovnakal is watching the pensioners so that God will not let them think not to pay. They're covering the water right now. For example, the same Flood was shut down for six months because it was unable to pay for utilities at the proper time. And the woman was carrying water on the fifth floor of the bucket as she grew older. But where is the humanity, where is the sensitivity? The true reporter of the "People's Word" district newspaper stood twice in defense of the Flood and, unfortunately, powerless against the host swallow. This is how we appreciate our people, how grateful we are for what they have given us. This reaffirms once again that the policy of the ruling regime is criminal, it is the verdict of our national independence, today's regime that is responsible for all the misery and suffering of our people. And I ask you to count as a question to Prime Minister Janukovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u31	The last speaker, the people’s deputy, Budagyans, please. Vadim Gurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u32	Thank you. Vadim Gurov. Krivbass. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow deputies to the implementation of article 52 of the State Budget 2003 Act. And as you listened to our colleague Poshenko's speech yesterday, which has already been listed in the budget of 375 million. Okay? Well, of course, fine. And now I want to talk to you, talk to you, see what kind of extortion is going on from the last state-run, executed, and now corporate, this money. Article 52 reads “part of the profits is taken out into the special fund”, which is now common. First. Pursuant to this article, the Cabinet of Ministers issued Decree No. 557 of 22 April on the rules of separation. First, it came out in four months is the first. Second, it's not part of the profit, it's already dividends. Third. Where did 15 per cent of the dividends come from? And as you finish, the dividends that are charged are also taxed on profits. This results in a profit tax of 30 per cent, a profit tax of 45 per cent, plus a profit tax of 15 per cent. In total, 50 per cent of public executions are now taxed. And all of this is done with permission of our indifference. We look at it and say: 'There is a way of reckoning. Praise be to God.' But that's how the completely state-owned, corporately executed enterprises are pressured. Therefore, MPs, I ask the Economic, Budgetary, Financial Committee to deal with this lawlessness. They can't be white, they can't be black. The law must be one for all. Why did they take these businesses? Because clearly, the schemes are transparent, you can see there's profit. So we're going to run the rest of the businesses that work with profit into the shadows. And the goal is to get the money out of the shadows. That is why I am addressing you, fellow MPs, to deal with this issue. And in conclusion. 230 privatized enterprises paid only seven dividends, only seven of them. Hence the conclusion: We must put everyone in equal conditions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! Time's up. Regarding the problems raised, the questions raised in the answers, I ask the secretariat to prepare appropriate letters, addresses. With regard to the proposal of the People's Deputy Kirilenka regarding the expansion of access to the Supreme Council. I think it's a good offer, but we still have to take into account the conditions under which the Supreme Council works. And to your acquaintance, dear colleagues, I'll tell you that we have 130 guest seats on the balcony: 54 for the diplomatic corps, 56 for the journalists. In view of all of this, I ask the Rules Committee to deal with the relevant proposals. Yes, from the procedure of the People's Deputy Mironenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u34	Fifth constituency, Mironenko, Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! In spite of the Rules, books were distributed at the registration desks, denouncing the liberated Ukraine during the Great Homeland War by Marshal Zhukov. The book has an anti-Russian anti-Russia orientation, which is anti-constitutional. It states, inter alia, that Zhukov ordered the eviction of all Ukrainians, which is rejected by all archives, has long been a denial. There was no order. First, Vladimir Mihajlovich, such violations of the Rules are unacceptable. Secondly, I respect people with all kinds of views, but you can't mislead people! Ukraine was freed from the fascist invaders, but not from the Poles of the UN-OPA, the Banders, but from Soviet troops, i.e. Ukrainians, Russians, Belarusians, representatives of all nationalities, the Soviet Army, which the author defiled. Only the friendship of all nationalities has won the Great Homeland War.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to ask you for a future on Tuesdays when the people who are written up for a statement are to pass on only those who are present in the hall. Today, there has been a violation of this, and that is unacceptable. I would like to pay attention to the Government of Ukraine, and I would like to draw the attention of all Ukrainian national deputies to the violation of article 49 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which ensures that the network of public health institutions and public health institutions is not destroyed. I'm being approached by indignant voters, and I want to bring this to your knowledge of the Kirovograd area -- they're outraged by the Governor's initiative of the Power District to start with the children's district hospital, the SM room, the SM-6 for the transfer of this hospital to a very small room. The third city hospital is located in the center of Kyrovograd and has a general location.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u37	Yes, thank you. National deputy of Chubarov. And let's get to work. In fact, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u38	Thank you very much. I wouldn't ask for a word if there weren't any previous speeches. I want to say that when a Ukrainian national MP distributes his own books, it is not a violation of the Rules. That's what I'd like to say. Mr. Lukianenko, Ukrainian national deputy, wrote such a book, it is written according to historical material, it is factual, there are all references, and I think it was wrong to make such a remark to our colleague Lukyanek Leuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Kindness has been exchanged, and now we are moving on to. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's work in a constructive way. 30 seconds Kravchenko. Well, it's from the procedure, what procedure? According to the draft laws? Let's look at it. Please, Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u40	I'm kind of in the middle of something. I understand that the Creature needs to be done. Cowchenko, 57, Communist faction, Donbass. I'm aware that today they were "skinning the hall." For the first time in 10 years. They felt that privatization was what it was like to take profits from Donbass for 10 years. But that doesn't give you the right, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to give Gurov even without the record.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u41	Turn off the microphone! I explain to the national deputy Kravchenk that the Budagian national MP had risen and said that he was passing the word to the national deputy Gurvo. I'm asking you not to blame me where there's no reason. Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the drafts. We have a package of bills today that relate to the agro-industrial complex. Since the problem is extremely difficult, I would ask you, fellow honourable Members, to at least consider today all nine bills relating to the agri-industrial complex. And they organized our work accordingly, and they finished when we considered nine bills. Since we have two bills now, they're related, maybe if you don't mind, we've been looking at them at the same time. The draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of land laws and the draft law amending Ukraine's Land Code for Joint Undertakings. [[This is 2608.]] [[It's No.3164.]] There are the same rapporteurs, there are corresponding committee conclusions. Is there no objection? I thank you and invite the head of the committee to the report. Anatoly Stepanovich, can we wait for you to talk? We're in no hurry if you're in no hurry. The report invites the head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Ukraine, Danilenko Anatoli Stepanovic. I think you've heard, two bills need to be reported at the same time. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u42	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of section 4, paragraph 4, of the Land Code of Ukraine's Ninth Final Provisions, which took effect on 1 January 2002 and correspondingly a plan for the preparation of draft legislative and other legal acts emanating from the Ukrainian Code of Land, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 10 January 2002. The main purpose of the bill is to reconcile land laws with other areas of legislation in regulating the law in these areas. The specified draft law is designed to implement the provisions of existing land legislation. The draft law proposed amendments and additions to 14 articles, namely the amendment of the Water Code, the Forest Code, the Code of Nadra, the laws of Ukraine on agricultural agriculture and so on. This is explained by the fact that draft amendments have been prepared or are being prepared in a new edition of such legislative acts. It is proposed to amend the following legislation: Ukraine's Code of Administrative Violations, Ukraine's Law on Natural and Indictive Fund of Ukraine, Ukraine's Law on Agricultural Cooperation, on Pipeline Transport, on Rail Transport, on Land Pay, on Education, on Enterprise, on Scientific and Scientific Engineering, on Privatization of Uncompleted Construction Objects, on Local Government Administrations, on Economic Associations, Ukraine's Law on Licensing Certain Economic Activities, Ukraine's Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on Water and Forest Codes of Ukraine, on Nadra, on Ukrainian Laws on Agriculture, on Agriculture. The draft does not change because these legal acts are to be brought into conformity not only with Ukraine's Land Code but also with other legislation in Ukraine, such as the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine's Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and others, i.e. separate draft laws on amendments and additions to the codes mentioned. It is also suggested that they have lost their validity, the laws of the country on land-based property forms, agreements on land-dwelling, pie-dwelling. The implementation of the act project does not require material or other costs. The adoption of the bill will ensure that Ukraine’s Earth Code, as well as other legislation related to Ukraine’s Earth Code, can be applied, remove the differences that exist in us today. Honourable People's Deputies, Bill worked on by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economy and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border, the State Committee for the Ukraine of Forestry, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the State Committee for Taxation of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Please approve the proposed project in the first reading and appropriate further development, taking into account the additions and proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to put it into effect this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u43	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, is there a question? Please sign up for five minutes if you have one. Better not be. On the board, please. Matvienkov, the European Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u44	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, well, what you've been proposing, here are these bills, today, back to us, we've been given, it's the right thing to do, but I want to remind you, so to speak, of one topic that we talked about on the committee and which has somehow remained unresolved. There is a bill that proposes to allocate land to the temporary use of persons who are laying the pipe. The return, water and gas pipelines. Today, to take this land for permanent use or rent, there is a need to make such a number of arrangements that the work you are doing in gassing the village will not be required to do. Why it is not possible to give the land to the user for temporary use, to reclaim and then to give the land to the user. Why is the Committee not meeting when dealing with this issue, since there is no norm in the Land Code for Temporary Use? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u45	Thank you for the questions raised. It is in the additions proposed in the pipeline transport law that we propose to make these additions. But the questions you raise, they really deserve attention and support. I also want to point out today that today's extremely difficult procedure is to go through relevant documentation on whether it's the self-government or the executive branch. And I think it would be very good if you made your specific proposals for preparation for second reading, and that would be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u46	National MP of Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u47	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich! Socialist faction, Vernigore. I can see how you've been fighting for so many years, and with these peacocks, I don't know what to call it anymore. You know, I represent the Poltav region, there's probably no better land anywhere. You can take the windshield and that's it. Now I'm going to drive every week, and I'm being approached by rations, and they're telling us all that. they distribute wheat or oil in a jar, but all the pies are sown by sunflower without consent. Who is responsible for both the committee and the state. It is your business to ask the same spiders, and how their children will then use the pies. Whether they will still be given from the sun in a bag of wheat and all. I think we should save the earth with reforms, not ash. I beg you, Anatoly Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. First of all, I want to say that in the Supreme Council today, we are ready to consider in the sessionary regime, in the session room two draft laws, one on land protection, and the other on government control over land use. But without waiting for the adoption of laws, I want to send!Oh, my God! [[send]] All the National Deputies before the experience of the Kirovograd Regional Authority in the Kirovograd area we have created a direction in the cadastral centre system, monitoring the efficiency of land use and seizing. I'm going to introduce you to specific developments, and we're going to extend these developments to all parts of our country today. But we urgently need to adopt those two bills that I said they're in the Supreme Council today. Thank you. And there's the responsibility of both the users and the executive bodies and the self-government bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u49	That's good, Anatoly Stepanovich, the national MPs can be sent to experience, and they can't be sent in any way. Please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u50	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhiy city of Zaporozhye faction of SDPU (o) Anatoly Stepanovich, I personally have no doubt about the need to further improve the rules of land legislation. I think it's rather a socio-economic problem, not a political one. So I predict the success of these bills in the session hall. That's for sure. But this work of improving land legislation depends in many ways, and you know it very well because of the effectiveness of applying the law to action, in practice. And since he analyzes the efficiency of land use and the question of a colleague of Vernighor. Please tell me, has the Democratic Republic of the Congo analysed the effectiveness of the use of defence land?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. It also deserves the adoption of the law at the legislative level. And today we're going to be discussing this in the next Supreme Council in the sessional room. But if you look at the effectiveness of the land defense of the border forces, the land of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I think you should have received today's reference material for the efficiency of using these lands. Unfortunately, this is not a complete inventory of these lands, and we are making proposals, we want to make proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers so that parts of the land will be removed and transferred to the national economy not simply by hand, but by auction, for example, and that these funds will be available for local budgets. Thank you for the questions raised.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u53	Thank you. Time's up. Please, Olga Hinzburg, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u54	Thank you. Communist faction, Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I understand that we are now considering such amendments to the Earth Code. We have adopted this land code as a result, or we see it as its fruits today in Ukraine. And that's my question. Can you tell me today that we have the Earth Codex? What are the consequences? And if they're positive, you're counting it like that, then why is there a constant violation in my Sumskie area: they take pies into colporteurs, the land, they don't make these contracts with them, or if these contracts, they're signed contracts, they don't pay the amount of land that's now stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers, and who's responsible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. As we proceed with the adoption of the Earth Code, we are today considering a package of amendments, a package of suggestions to be made today. And it is these amendments that allow us to regulate the legal field for renting land, in accordance with calculations and strengthening control over land use efficiency and seismicity. And one more thing. Why is this so? I think that, people's deputies, you understand that we have to deal with these issues in parallel. The Earth Code and the parallel resolution of the whole issue at the legislative level are about support, agrarian subsidies, as is the case around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u56	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u57	I'm sorry. Maybe that's not what I said. Excuse me, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u58	Thank you. From the committee, please, Roman Tkac will express the committee's position on the two bills -- bills 2608, 3164. Please, Roman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on May 15, this year, considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of land laws under registration number 2608, drafted in accordance with section 9, paragraph 4, of the Final Provisions of the Code of Land. The bill provides for amendments and additions to a number of Ukrainian laws and specifies that certain laws of Ukraine have become invalid. In addition, we have also considered the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which has given a positive conclusion on the adoption of the bill as a basis. At its meeting, after discussing the changes, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of land legislation on a basis. We propose to the Supreme Council to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u60	I thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Is the committee's position clear? Have a seat, please. Let us discuss if there is a need. Please sign up, let's talk for 10 minutes. Recorded? I'd like you to explain those on the board. Yuri Anatoliyovich begins the debate, the faction of "Our Ukraine". Michael Melniczuk, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u61	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Honorable Multitude People of Ukraine! Every time I get the Prime Minister's signature on some piece of legislation, I see if it's clear. Suggestions. And now I want to pay attention, they said, here's the scientific expertise that gives a good conclusion, a positive one, and so on. Let's look deeper. The science-expert management has just come to no conclusion about this. Well, for example, it wrote what was proposed. I quote: "The proposed changes should be in line with the President's decree on the creation of a single system of state-owned land administrations." [[This is the Science and Experimental Authority, this is to the knowledge of Matsuka and the head of the Department's apparatus.]] Tell me, please, where is it that you can imagine that the legislature is offered the law to adjust to the decree?Oh, my God! When there's an elementary concept that first the Constitution, then the law, then the regulations. And this is the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that is distributing to the MPs. I'm asking Anatolia Matsuka to conduct an investigation and no more of these opuss to allow and not hand over to the people's deputies. This bill, which is being discussed today, has a bearing on many areas. We introduce the concept of pipeline transport here, we bring what it is here, we make changes to the transport law, to the land of rail transport. We don't agree with these committee profiles, we don't listen to the Minister of Transport, but how he reacts to those novels, how it doesn't apply. I think that this approach to the serious changes that are being proposed is, as a minimum, not serious. Secondly, I'd like to see who benefits from the adoption of these or other legislative acts. Article 14 of the Entrepreneurship Act: The State hands over and provides land for use. I want to point out that this has already been passed on to property -- I'm addressing the head of the State Commission -- you see that. You know your businesses, your structures in Odessa don't work. There's a stolen land that's simply, simply dug up suddenly and cynically. She's dug up in the Kyiv region and she's digging up now, she's giving up now. And you're going to suggest that we distribute again so quietly, in the form of changes. These changes require a very serious expert assessment. I'm in favour of making changes, but making changes to the laws that are here 12 laws that are being amended, with only the professional committees, only after they've considered the profiling committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u62	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u63	We didn't do anything, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u64	The word has the national MP Melniczuk, the faction of the Socialist Party, to prepare Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, of course, that we have adopted the Ukrainian Earth Code, you have not done much to have this Earth Code adopted. But as we can see, for many generations, I have already spoken about making changes to this earthly codex. My colleague Karmazin stopped at article 14, "State Support for Entrepreneurship". I'd like to focus on articles 238-1, which are the amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administration: "Review of administrative violations in the field of land use and protection." Who's watching? Landowner engineers, I'm just taking parts, categories that have the right to consider, country engineers, villages. We understand today who works in their constituencies, that there are no such positions in many villages in Ukraine. If you can talk, there are 40-45 percent of the villages today, there are engineers, there are experts, and there are no other villages. And in some places in the region of Cherniewec, let's take an example, and that's the way that today, on 3-4 villages, one landowner. So who should be looking? And you can't wait around for them to come to the villages. That's why there's a lot of problems. And that's why national MPs, and I and others, are going out and we're dealing with things that don't apply to our competence. I'll give an example only in the Cherkas region, the Smilava region, the village of Ploske, I've already spoken twice. I, Anatoly Stepanovich, came to you and asked the MPs because it was your landowners who took 300 hectares of land from the people and transferred them to degraded lands. And I was on those lands, and I know there's a foot of black ground. And it can't be degraded! A peasant was robbed in the Smilava region! This is also true of Kirovograd, the region of Novomirgorod, and I was approached by people with such questions. With regard to State support for entrepreneurship, article 14, let me tell you that today, let us give an example in the region of Novoselica. 40 entrepreneurs have been going for two years to buy land where their commercial buildings are. And they can't find the truth. Article 57, by teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, you are very clear about ordering authority in elections. But the authorities are fooling you too, because article 57 is not being implemented in the state! You are guaranteed both free housing and heating and lighting, and this is not possible, but only one promise. And today the earth is promised. What's that? By the way. It's gone. And there's no government reserve.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u66	Mikhail Vasilovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u67	I'm done. Therefore, by turning to the drafters of this bill, to the government. I want to say it again: you don't have to deceive the educated -- there's no land! And if we want to give them two hectares each, please forget that a teacher can work effectively and teach our children. The teacher should teach the children. Not working on the ground. He can do that with a docking area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u69	Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear National Deputies! The earth floats from under our feet! And we have to look at all the bills at this point of view. Do you need these two bills? In general, they're needed. The adoption of the Earth Code, in general, should be accompanied by an escort of laws that specify it and create a mechanism for its operation. Thus, such laws need to be adopted, especially if we consider the situation that the Earth Code has been accepted in haste, not quite as it should be, and it is not exactly what it should be! Well, maybe it's a good thing he is. And that gave us the opportunity to continue to work productively. If he were more perfect, we would simply have fewer jobs and fewer opportunities to demonstrate our abilities. You know I'm joking. And that's why. I think we need to prepare a set of changes to the Earth Code. What would I do? Along with the National Lands Committee, the Supreme Council, a profile committee to look at the Earth Code, which needs to be amended and prepared a comprehensive bill, where all these changes would be. So until we do that, we're going through the patching process, we're proposing separate laws, and we're trying to patch it up, and it's also inevitable in the legislative work, but it's important that the pitom weight of the patch is much smaller than we now have. So I personally do not deny the need to adopt these laws, and I probably need to adopt them in the first reading and work in this direction. Other laws should be harmonized with the adopted land code, and certain laws and articles of individual laws should be repealed. It's a normal piece of legislation, a routine, normal piece of legislation. But at the same time, there are three questions that concern me very much, and, by the way, and those deputies who spoke today, and I think, many of those who sit in this room, and the villagers, and those who listen to us on the radio today. The first question is land protection. How can we protect the earth, protect the land? We do not really have enough landowners and no land protection system at all. Second, it's a land assessment. If the land is already being sold, if, indeed, the way to create a land market is, at least not to be cheaply bought, but to be objectively priced, and the mechanism to create an appropriate land market. And the third question is, ownership, land theft, a priceless set, they cheat people. And that's exactly what these laws can accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Igor Šurma, faction of SDPU. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u71	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party. [[united]] We have a few comments. First, a bill submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council with substantial delay. According to paragraph “a” of section 9, paragraph 4, of the Land Code, the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to prepare and submit proposals to the Supreme Council for amendments to the legislative acts arising out of this code within six months of its publication, that is, back in 2002. The other one. Section 1, paragraph 5, of the project proposes to replace the rule “land areas are given to academies for permanent use in accordance with land legislation”, with the rule that “these divisions are granted to academies for permanent or temporary use on lease terms”. In our view, it's appropriate to write "on lease terms" instead of "permanent or temporary lease use." Third. The proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Land Pay Act duplicate the rules of the Ukrainian Land Code as part of the definition of land for agricultural purposes and land for housing and public buildings. From the point of view of standard design, such duplication is not desirable. Four. In amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, which defines the authority to regulate land relations and to protect the environment, it would be appropriate to provide for a rule that prior to the recognition of implementing authorities, rural, rural and urban councils in the field of land relations, there are powers established by the Ukrainian Code of Land. Since the proposed changes do not fully take into account the definition of a standard by the Ukrainian Code of Land. Such clarification would also be appropriate in article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, which also introduces changes in the project in the direction of clarifying the powers of local public administrations in the field of land use and protection, natural resources, environmental protection. The faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party believes that the bill can be based on comments and suggestions. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u72	Thank you, my fellow Members, the time for discussion has been exhausted, so we have completed our consideration of draft laws amending some Ukrainian legislation on the harmonization of land laws - this is number 2608. And the amendment to the Ukrainian Land Code for Joint Undertakings is number 3164. That's not right. No, I announced, asked permission, everyone agreed with me. Oh, no. What do you mean? Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, out of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u73	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I'm talking about Bill 3164. Is he to be discussed? Why? I signed up with two bills, not one. Why do we unite all the time? This is the 3164 government bill, this is a big warning. Because article 82 third paragraph, created in Ukraine by the SP, is based on the participation of foreign legal, natural persons, can acquire ownership rights to land. How is it that foreigners who have created a joint venture will have their own land in Ukraine? Let's talk about this. This is contrary to the land code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u74	Thank you. But you haven't finished reading it. Keep reading, it's written, on what grounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u75	"in cases listed in part one." And the first part doesn't match paragraph three. I would like to be a national deputy to give me an opportunity to make a statement on this matter. That's impossible. Tomorrow the aliens will own the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, as you can see in the project, the schedule shows that these two projects are combined. I asked permission from my fellow citizens, the proposal was supported, and we discussed these bills. If they haven't had a chance to discuss it all. Once again, my dear colleagues, I asked your point of view, you supported me in this. So, dear colleagues, we've completed our consideration of the bill. There are different points of view, different positions, we're going to be able to take this into account when we vote. The draft Law on the Use of Lands of Defence is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur: Head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources, Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich. Five minutes to report, five minutes to question, then the co-reporter briefs us, and then discusses us for 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u77	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Ukrainian Defence Lands Act was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with Presidential Decree 11.06. In 2002, the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 25 April 2002 to strengthen the security of the State border of Ukraine in the context of the fight against international terrorism, illegal migration and drug trafficking. According to the Ukrainian Land Code and this bill, the land of defence is defined as land for the deployment and continuous activity of military units, military and teaching institutions, enterprises and organizations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and other formations. More than 633,000 acres [633,000 ha] of land of various destinations are now being used by the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations formed in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. A special regime for the operation of military objects complicates the control of the use of land provided for the placement of the specified objects, resulting in the use of the specified land areas not by purpose, irrationally or with other violations of land legislation. Uncertain cases of land use by business entities that are not entitled to it. Perhaps there is no secret that individual defence objects have a direct or indirect negative impact on the environment, including land conditions. The main purpose of this bill is to establish a procedure for the use of land provided for the deployment and continuous operation of military units, institutions of military and teaching institutions, enterprises and organizations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service, the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of the Ukraine for the Emergencies and the Protection of the Population against the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, the State Department for the Enforcement of Other Military Forms Established in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. The adoption of this law will allow for increased control of the land use regime and will determine the final size of the land needed for military deployment and continuous activity. With a view to ensuring the state’s secret and the safety of defence objects, the draft law provides for the possibility of establishing protection, security, and other areas around them, with appropriate restrictions on the use of land according to the current legislation of Ukraine. With a view to making them more rational, the draft law provides for the right of land users. By agreeing with local authorities or local executives, allowing citizens and legal persons to grow crops, farm animals, produce hay, and produce materials from local industries. With a view to preventing the negative impact of defence objects on the environment, including on land, the draft law stipulates that protection and rational use of defence land is extended without exception to all defences. Dear National Deputies! The bill is based on the rules of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Land Code, the Ukrainian Defence Act, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Armed Forces legal regime, the Ukrainian State Border, other Ukrainian legislation, and Ukraine's international treaties governing defence relations. The implementation of the provisions envisaged by the bill will allow for a socio-economic impact on land management and rational defence land management. The adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian law will allow for the speeding up of measures to detect lands of defence that are not used for purposes or for violating the requirements of land legislation and making appropriate decisions on the appropriateness of the transfer of land to the relevant sectors of the national economy. Dear National Deputies! The bill has been processed and agreed with the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the State Committee for the Protection of the State Border of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Please approve the proposed draft Ukrainian law in the first reading and after appropriate elaboration, taking into account the additions and proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, to put it into effect this year. The report is complete. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u78	Yes, dear fellows! Questions to Anatolia Stepanovich Danilenko If there is, please sign in. Please give me the names of the national MPs. Olga Gunzburg, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. I have a question for you, Anatoly Stepanovich. I don't want to understand, considering this law and reading it a little bit, I have these questions. This law refers to enterprises and institutions, organizations of the Armed Forces, including, among other things, what you called more. We have these problematic questions about the town of Six, where there are a lot of businesses that serve the Armed Forces of Ukraine, these are paramilitary enterprises, the military complex, and the Star, the Impulse, and others. They have a very large territory today. The question arose, with which I am fighting so much right now, these land taxes, which are now being downloaded according to the new budget, but the territory of each plant is very large. I have this question about whether these lands could be subject to the Armed Forces and somehow the factories would pass on to this law, or, somehow, to this law as a complement, so that they would also have some status under the proposed law, so that these factories would not be subject to these damages. Because today they're putting the price on the land into the production of the Armed Forces, and that's back on the budget of Ukraine. I'm sorry. It's back on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u80	Thank you for the questions raised. I have in my hands information on the lands that are in use of the Ministry of Defence, the Committee on Crown Protection, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I think, on the basis of the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, we have until 1 July literally to provide information and a proposal from the Cabinet of Ministers on the removal of land that is in the use of those ministries and the information that I have told you about, and to channel these land resources for effective use in the national economy, so that these are additional sources of revenue to the local budgets. And the next. You've just drawn attention to aiding by coming out of the land pay law, and unfortunately, if you look at it, 2002 marks the next 1 billion. It is estimated that the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation will be used to provide additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. came into the budget from land payments. But if you analyze, and what's in the sum, in the monetary terms of the benefits, it's much more. And so I would like to ask you for your support, honourable national deputies, so that this bill, which I have just presented to you in the Supreme Council, was adopted as a basis, was adopted in a second reading as a law. Because it determines the order of use of land resources that are subordinated to the use of the Ministry of Defence and other ministries and offices. Legal principles. And we see that today there is a vital law that regulates this work. Thank you. This is where you need your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u81	Basil Nadrag, European Choice MP. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u82	No, the People's Choice MP. Dear Anatoly Stepanović agrees with everything that has been said about the need for this law. But there's one question that bothers me. Regrettably, the military and all other agencies concerned today can very often point out that they have a very secret, very secret, very important, undisclosed task. Therefore, State control or public control of how these lands are used may be largely sealed so that there will be no public control over them. I therefore agree that the law should be adopted on first reading. Nevertheless, I ask you to write in more detail what “civil monitoring of compliance” is by the military and everyone else, the correctness of this law. Because, as they sometimes refer to the earth, this does not withstand any criticism. Talking about the need for protection or something else, the land is just being destroyed. Therefore, I consider it a duty for us to clearly write out the civil control system, including through the well-respected committee of yours, of the State, where it must be stated how the State should control it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Your brief in-time speech and profound in-content brings me back to what I said in the presentation of the previous question. We need to adopt two laws as laws on protection and a law on control as a matter of urgency. There is a written procedure, including public control, independent of the subordination of a land where it is not located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u84	Vasil Gavriluk, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u85	You have said a great deal, Your Honor, that the project foresees ensuring the efficient and rational use of lands occupied by defence objects, monitoring the targeted destination of these lands. But I would still like to ask you, what is the standard of this project for stimulating the protection of lands? What standard of this law will lead to the liberation and transfer of land to the State? Unfortunately, I couldn't do that in your proposed bill. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u86	Thank you. I think you could go back to those norms to strengthen, to Article 4, the use of land around military units and defence objects, and to Article 5 and 6. I think in preparing this bill for the second reading, we're going to have this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u87	Yes, thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you to the People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u89	I ask Roman Tkach's report from the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations on 13 May 2003 at its meeting considered a draft law aimed at defining the basic conditions and requirements for the use of defence land, the powers of executive authorities to define and ensure compliance with the regime for the use of this category of land. I want to tell you that we had a violent discussion here and here in the hall. We've also scored positives. and the shortcomings of the bill, however, following the discussion, the committee notes that the draft law mainly contains general provisions and references to relevant articles of the Ukrainian Code of Land without specifying them according to the specificities of the field of land use. The bill contains a general concept of "security zones", while the Ukrainian Earth Code provides for the creation of around military units of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations of special land use zones. In addition, the bill provides for the possibility of using the land of defence for agricultural purposes. However, it does not determine on which principles military forces should allow individuals and legal persons to use the land. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes to send a draft bill for further work. In view of the above, and considering that the use of defence land for the time being is not legally regulated at all, the Committee has decided to propose to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted on a basis. Besides, I want to make some comments and just bring them up to speed. In the process of discussion, we also had comments on such things that article 1 of this bill defines the notion of "earth defence," but there are no laws that say military support farms, the raconsops, which are in the military. In addition, the issue of land law regulation that arises from the release of land remained outside the scope of the law. In addition, the project does not regulate land relations with foreign military formations. However, as I said above, given all these observations, we are still proposing that the committee adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u91	Thank you, Roman, too. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. Please point out who signed up for the discussion. Yes, please, Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, prepare Michael Melniczuk. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Today is the day of land legislation to make numerous changes. And now we've been looking at changes to laws and we've been paying attention to Law 3164, which we've been talking about in a hurry, because in three minutes we can't discuss two bills. I strongly object to the introduction of part three to article 82 of the Earth Code, which states that "a joint enterprise based on the participation of foreign legal and natural persons may acquire ownership rights to land in the cases defined in part 1 of this article and in the order established by this code for foreign legal persons." This is the laziness through which joint ventures of the physical community, which establish legal and physical persons, will take over Ukrainian land. I strongly object to this and I would like you not to support it on Thursday. Now, as far as this bill is concerned. It refers to the subject of a few committees, of course, and it is called land of defense. And I want to ask, why not the land of attack? Armed forces must be both for defense and for assault, and so on. And we're saying that for the defense tasks that have been put in place, but there are also educational institutions, there are military enterprises, there are institutions, and not only the Ukrainian Armed Forces. There's the state border, there's the border forces, there's the Ministry of Internal Affairs, there's the Ministry of Emergency Affairs, there's the protection of the population from the Chernobyl disaster, there's the State Department of Punishment, there's other military formations. Therefore, it is possible to write in the title that this is about the use of land of military formations formed in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, this might correspond to the substance of the law. This is the first time. It's different. Whether we have a transparent use of these lands today or not, we have abuse of this right, commanding these parts. You all know what it is, each of the national MPs knows. As an example in Odessa, the land was taken to relocate the military, and today the market is operating there. This is an example of how the land is used by the military. So the control that is envisaged here, whether it's declared in the second article in the sixth paragraph, is controlled according to the legislation that there is no control at all. So when this law is passed in the first reading, it is necessary to write out how control is to be exercised, how parliamentary control is to be exercised, and how the relevant parliamentary committee is to be monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u93	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please. Prepare Bogdan Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u94	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill number 2296, which the government has given us, in fact, is in some way perhaps designed to sort out the use of defense land, so let's say it's a land of defense. And we have a lot of them, talked about by the socialists here, and our deputies working on the budget committee have focused on the fact that this is more than 500,000 hectares of land. The use of this land needs to be arranged. Having been thoroughly familiar with this bill, I can say clearly that this bill does not regulate the use of these lands at all. Why? At the committee meeting where I took part, a proposal was made to give us, the Committee on Agricultural Affairs and Land Relations, an act of inventory of these lands, how much ore land there, how much suitable for agricultural production, how unfavourable it is to use them, and so on. There is no such act until now. At least when we discuss this bill, we have a clear idea that tomorrow it will be voted on, because that is the case, and so is Bill 3164, which I strongly oppose. But since we're discussing it right now, Anatoly Stepanovich, we've made observations about the use of the land of the border strips, that's hundreds of thousands of ore-good land. How is it used? Even this bill recommends that neither we nor the state should order the use of these lands, but that it should be governed by the Foreign Military Act. I looked at that law, it doesn't regulate land relations at all, or it regulates how to use these land. Why, then, do we pass it on to an authority or institution that does not have the right to make decisions regarding the use of State land? So on this point, I would like to focus attention on article 3 of this law, article 5, especially on what conditions this land is passed on. And now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, back to Bill 3164. Once again, I'm asking the people's deputies. We want to make this bill a landowner of joint ventures, where there is foreign capital and foreigners. Notice, please, how beautiful the government has led us to hell, and we voted in favour of this bill. I'm definitely against it. And the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will be determined tomorrow. We cannot make foreigners owners of our lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u95	Bogdan Costinjuk. Get ready for Stepan Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u96	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Use of Lands of Defence defines the powers of authorities and local self - government, the basic tasks of military administrations, and the responsibilities of enterprises, organizations and institutions in the selection, removal and granting of land for defence purposes. I noted that it was designed to implement a decision by the National Security Council to strengthen the security of the state border of Ukraine in the context of combating international terrorism and illegal migration. Perhaps that is why it is written in a kind of one - sided way because the name of the defence land project requires that the military or educational establishments or enterprises or the Ukrainian Armed Forces not only maintain, not only use, but also leave the land and objects on it when they were used earlier. Many examples can be cited when lands and objects that leave the military are left in neglected condition. And because of the time-consuming handover to another user, everything that was not destroyed by the military is destroying the local population. There are other shortcomings that need to be regulated. For example, in the region of Ivano-Frankiv there's a Lisecki polygon that was occupied by the military. And today it is either transmitted or already passed on to other authorities, but without the knowledge and agreement of the local authorities. Neither the village nor the district council know about this. Local residents claim to use land and forest. They don't have the opportunity to lose their livestock. At this point, a village was destroyed at this site 50 years ago. Today, an initiative group of local residents has been formed to rebuild the once destroyed village and claim to be part of the land of the former range. So all these issues need to be incorporated into the law. I express the hope that this will be done during the drafting of the bill for 2 readings and for the preparation of 2 readings. My statement on the Liseckian range, please, consider it a parliamentary request. Besides, one more moment. I would like to point out that nowhere in the law has the issue of the status of lands that have taken up foreign military formations been settled. And we have these. In particular, these are the troops of the Black Sea Navy of Russia. And together, including those support companies that are leased to them. That's why these issues also need to be addressed in this law, which is called "The Use of Lands of Defence." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u98	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine First of all, I'd like to ask the developers. Before proposing such a bill, it was necessary to examine for itself what changes had taken place in the use of defence land, how much land was actually used as defense land. After all, without that, we can't decide to accept a normal bill. Of course, a bill is obviously needed, but it has significant shortcomings in its proposed form. First of all, it is necessary to specify the key concept of what a land of defense is in line with existing legislation. Secondly, this bill will become the law of special action in case of its adoption. Therefore, it is essential that all of its positions be dealt with in the light of the proposals made by the Ministry of Defence, other interested authorities. It hasn't happened yet. I'll give you one example. For example, the second paragraph of the article is: selection, removal, land use and accounting, topographical and geodetic, cartographic and land-based work is carried out in compliance with the requirements of State secrecy. First of all, topographical geodetic, cartographic work in Ukraine is not only to be done on the land of defence to meet the requirements of keeping the cabinet if it remains, of course, in the state. And second of all, what kind of land-use defense are we talking about? On what basis and for what? So they're too much for the Mini-Defense. There is no answer, including in article 5, which is called "Use of land of defense for farm purposes." The question arises: On which principles, contractual, paying, or free military parts may allow natural and legal persons to use land for defenses in agriculture, livestock breeding, and so forth. And if it doesn't work out that the airports, once this law has been passed, will be transformed into an entirely agricultural sector. And the locations of the naval forces are on the beach. Finally, article 5 states that the use of land for agriculture, and so forth, is only possible under mandatory environmental expertise. And the last. A separate article should define how to control the use of land for defence purposes. This bill is considered necessary for further elaboration and reexamined in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time taken to consider this matter is exhausted. From the procedure? Okay. So we've completed our consideration of the issue -- draft law on land use, this is number 2296. Decisions will be made with consideration. From the procedure, please, Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u100	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, of course, is relevant, but I wanted the Rules to be observed. First. According to the budget code, all documents submitted should have economic justification. The Law, which was passed, 3164 — amending the Land Code in the area of land allocation by foreigners gives the right to alien legal and natural persons to make land available. This is suggested in article 3. Article 4 suggests that lands inherited by foreign legal persons are subject to alienation within one year. Regrettably, this standard is more faithful, this calculation -- how much land has in common today, how much money has to be allocated from the compensation budget -- there is no bill. It is therefore impossible to write down this rule, where there is no clear allocation of funds from the budget. I therefore ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the bill in question, to be sent to the Committee on Budgets so that they can reach their conclusion. And such documents are filed without economic calculations, no, today 12,000 joint ventures. How much land is passed on to them?Oh, my God! What will be the amount of compensation?Oh, my God! All of this should be calculated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. Honorable national MPs, all bills, virtually all, are passed on to the two committees. I mean the Committee on Budgetary Policy and on European Integration. And they're also passing on all the drafts to get them from the government. Please, Vladimir Yavorowski of the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u102	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, this law is really necessary and no one is denying it. But I'm personal, and I really want this to be included in our transcript, and there's a law that says that the land is allocated to military parts according to their needs. You can see for yourself what the need will be for the military. All that is, let all that be theirs. Because of that, I would like a protocol commission to have the government or the Ministry of Defense do a passport, so that we know very clearly how much the legislative body, how much land we need for military units, because we have such machines as a maple polygon used there for about one tenth. Then there will be, I think, a state-owned approach -- a mandatory passport to let us know how much land there is in every military area, and not to let them decide how much it takes, but to let the state, power, parliament and government decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u103	Yes, Your Honor, let's move on to the next bill. I'd like to ask, maybe we're colleagues today, and I'm asking you, look, today we've been voting requests for half an hour, and then we've been speaking for half an hour. Instead of working for half an hour, we worked for an hour. No objections? A draft law on milk and dairy products is being announced for consideration. Reporter - Minister of Agricultural Policy Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich Please provide the following rules: five minutes of the report, five minutes of the question, the same for the coconspirator. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Milk and Milk Products has been developed to implement the Cabinet of Ministers Ordinance on Step-by-step Implementation Measures in Ukraine, Directives of the European Union of Sanitary, Environmental, Veterinary, Phytosanitary and International European Standards. The main task of the law is to establish requirements for producers, processors and suppliers of raw milk, milk and dairy products, to identify their rights and obligations, as well as to control bodies, to implement state support, and to promote the production of milk economically. You all know that the situation in the dairy sector is too complex. In particular, the number of cattle slaughtered, including cows, continues to be reduced. Last year, for example, the cattle’s head fell by 312,000 heads, including 202,000 heads. The negative trend in cartilage is, unfortunately, maintained during the current year. The productivity of all categories of farms remains low at 2900-2000 kilograms of milk per cow. Of course, national MPs, especially agrarians, are well informed that according to statistics, milk production has increased slightly last year, but it continues to be cost-effective, with a rate of damage of about 14 percent. The main reasons for such a situation are the low purchase price of milk. This is primarily due to the deterioration in the export situation of dairy products in the past year and to the decline in demand for Ukrainian products. Appropriately, the purchase price for cow’s milk fell sharply. During the summer season, processing companies paid only 35 copies per liter of milk. The average purchase price of one ton of milk and milk products sold by farmers for processing companies was 535 dollars, either in terms of subsidies or 10.7 percent. At the same time, the low level of purchasing power of our population also prevents us from raising retail prices for milk and milk products. Of course, it raises a question of who can work under such conditions because the more a dairy producer produces, the more it has the damage, not the profits. Of course, without guaranteed state support, on which the whole world is actually working, the sector will remain bankrupt for many years, and that is not to be assumed under market economy conditions. Today, it is also important to have affordable dairy markets, but they are all busy and not so easy to give up, and it is clear that we need to store, develop an internal market that can be greatly expanded. Imports of milk and milk products are a major factor in destabilizing the situation in the internal market, especially the illegal import and import of milk and milk products on the basis of the benefits of the extended economic zones. In addition, problems in the dairy market remain low in quality, which in turn affects dairy production and exacerbates the problem of production, especially in the external market. Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the Law on Milk and Milk Products will significantly reduce these problems, without question. It will also create conditions for producing and providing the population with milk and dairy products of guaranteed quality and safety. The law is expected to promote a transparent market for milk and milk products, improve the investment attractiveness of Ukrainian businesses. The law itself sets out the requirements for quality, packaging, labelling of dairy products, and certification of dairy producers and products. Organizational principles exercise state control in this area, as well as regulate issues related to the responsibility of dairy producers and suppliers and the price of dairy products, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is absolutely necessary. We've added a large circle of experts, scientists, international experts, we've had round tables, and we're convinced that we can accept it in the first reading and take all your comments into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u105	Please sign up for the questions, your honors, for the reporter. Please point it on the board. Vasil Gavriluk, the People's People's Deputy Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u106	Dear reporter, please tell me if you are insisting on this bill and its adoption, why this is in violation of 92 articles of the Constitution, which clearly define what rules should be determined almost by law. This bill is not included in this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u107	We didn't see any differences with the Constitution. Moreover, you and I know that, according to the Constitution, we have to ensure the proper quality of food, and this is particularly true of milk and milk products. Because today the state has virtually no weight to regulate the normative, financial, economic dimensions of these issues. It's an economic category, really, and it's written in the Constitution if we don't see any differences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u108	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u109	160 Glukhovsky constituency. Mr. Secretary, you said it was absolutely right to operate on economic terms. And today you say again, "the manufacturer," "someone dropped the prices." Please tell me, who specifically lowered the prices? Please tell us, immediately, to hear our voters, do we have a state-owned dairy company in Ukraine, a state-owned meat -making enterprise? What is the fate in the structure of production? And what effect does your ministry have on these processes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u110	Sadly, this situation has created a lower price for those who pay their own, not for those who sell the goods. And it's this law that we want to settle and even go into and propose that we allow the Cabinet of Ministers to set appropriate minimum prices for raw materials. And we feel that such products need to be done. Now it's about the state. We only have a small number, less than a dozen already, of state-owned enterprises. But the thing is, the state today has no power to sustain them, to drug them. It says here that all forms of property — both state and private — are to be converted into economic and compulsory subsidies for the dairy sector and for the whole of animal production.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u111	None. There are only tribesmen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! If you'll allow me to ask a question, obviously, which concerns everyone. The main problem is the price variance between raw material and milk production and the product produced by the processor. This suggests that the Cabinet of Ministers will set prices, which means that prices will not be set. Can't we regulate the law by, for example, writing down about 50 percent of the value should be the raw material of the product that the processor is implementing, or we won't get out of this problem and we'll cry again that there's a distortion in the village. Please, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u113	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if we write this down in the law, and the economy is a moving concept, the economic situation will change, productivity will increase, the processing will increase, it seems to us that the Cabinet of Ministers will very often have to go to the Supreme Council about any change in pricing. Thus, if a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers were to be made, these issues could be more expeditiously aligned with the needs of the economy and the economies themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u114	Anatoly Frost, instead of Baburin, please, the faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u115	Two thanks to Vladimir Mikhailovich. The first was that I was given the word. The second thing that you've done before is that you've actually asked the election in my 83th constituency to ask us, MPs, to regulate the price of milk and milk products by law, because there is so much vachanism now from this issue that it's just not convenient for peasants to do it. First, processors dictate milk prices today. Secondly, the peasants ask Sergey Mikhailovich to draw up a typical contract between milk donors and processors so that on some legal basis it can already be sought, let's say, the same price or responsibility for the milk accepted. This must be done. Otherwise, it's different. I went to the Antimonopoly Committee, and there's no way to solve this. What do you think? I think we need to regulate this legislatively by adopting these laws, both of which we are currently discussing, milk, meat products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u116	The relevant articles of this bill provide for development, and we're actually not waiting for the law to be approved, we're doing this now, but it's supposed to be really normative acts that are fully consistent with other quality laws, standards and much more. So it's generally written here in these laws to allow the Cabinet of Ministers and their central executive authority to design these instructive, methodological, methodological, other positions, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u117	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u118	Of course, as it seems to the workers of the manufacturing industry at times, it will interfere with their kind of economic activity. But if today neither the Ministry nor another representative of the central authority can even go into a dairy business, because it's like a commercial secret and all that, it's crazy. This law will at least help us to register and apply it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u119	Sergei Mikolaiovich, at this point, is asking so many questions that you're contradicting yourself, you're demonstrating alogism. And what would the Cabinet of Ministers do if the Ministry, as a representative of the executive branch, couldn't get in? That's the first one. And the second. In this case, it is better to talk about the concept of the Milk and Milk Products Act, and it is all sent to instructions. Obviously, the law must be determined, taking into account the situation. Please, is there a national deputy of the Holy? None. Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u120	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Volin, Kirilchuk Your Honor, do you think that this concept should be expanded by what Vladimir Mikhailovich said? You might say, depending on the market, but not less than 50 percent. That's the first one. The other one. How does this law protect a manufacturer by importing similar goods from abroad that are and can be produced in us? On these two questions, I would like your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u121	As to the moment, I think there's another law here and there's no need to duplicate the bill. But I will only be happy with this proposal and yours, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if it is established by law a corresponding minimum price or percentage ratio. But I respectfully ask that we do, because this is a very necessary bill, and the villagers are looking forward to receiving it on the first reading, and then we'll get it to that logical conclusion with you quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u122	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. People's Deputy Véretennikov Viktor Aleksandrovich. We have two alternative bills. Therefore, the author of the bill favours an alternative.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I am the author of an alternative law on milk and dairy products. And we've drawn up almost this bill together, and we've agreed on a lot of articles along with the committee and the ministry. So I'm just going to give you a few numbers to ask that question, so maybe people will hear what and how. We now have 15 percent of dairy production in the food market. This is a very important contribution to the food table of our citizens. And that's another number. In 2002, milk products were imported into Ukraine by $21.4 million. In addition, the Commission notes that the export price of Ukrainian milk products to the United States of America, which is 9.4 times less than the export price of Ukrainian milk products, and 60 percent of what is being imported into Ukraine, is being paid on the same terms. The question therefore arose to draft a bill on milk and milk production. The main thing in this bill is to increase the competitiveness of our food and dairy products. As a whole, as the author of the MP's project, I support the government's project. But there are two very serious differences that we have not been able to resolve on the committee. So I insisted that the MP's project be discussed as well. First variance. It says in a government project that controls the finished produce and milk produced by farmers in the village, veterinary medicine, and sanitary medicine. I wanted to make a little distinction because veterinary medicine cannot control the finished product that is already going to the citizens’ table. It's veterinary medicine, it controls animals, and it controls production. But it's ready for production. It's only sanitary. These are two very, very different functions. This is the first one. And the second. By now, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin had supported me. The main difference is that the government wants it to dictate prices for raw materials and ready-made products. It can't be because it's not a market relationship. And if this government does, it's just one person today, it's going to be another person tomorrow. It will do otherwise, so if we go this way to get the government to set prices both for raw materials and for finished production, we don't have a market relationship and we don't have a competitive product, which is that today, when imports are almost ten times larger than exports of dairy. So I'd like this bill, government, maybe with these two rights, I'd like you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u124	Thank you, Victor Alexanderovich. Let's listen to the committee, the committee's position. Sergei Mikolaiovich Tereshuk, and then we'll take a little more time to discuss it. There are only two differences that have been said, dear colleagues! Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Tereshuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! These bills were discussed at the Committee on Agricultural Policy, Land Relations. And they both found support. The committee based on the importance of the production of milk and milk products for the food supply of our population today. Also important is the fact that dairy products now occupy a large part of our nation’s export potential. At the same time, the economic and legal relations in the sphere of production, transportation, implementation, processing, they're not settled, they're extremely many of the problems that we're talking about today. What's more, I'd like to focus your attention on the introduction to the WTO, which today is so much to talk about. Our animals will be on the brink of extinction, and we will not be able to compete with the countries that work within the WTO today. Our agriculture, our livestock, will be uncompetitive. At the same time, the committee is also concerned about the situation in animal production. One figure I emphasize, as stated by the minister: 202,000, 202,000, is reduced by the head. This is about one and a half of such areas as Chercassy, and in one year there were no cows. Almost two areas. And these trends continue, on the other hand, they get even more widespread. The committee therefore considers it appropriate to support the legal basis of the State’s security and quality of milk and milk products. We believe that the bill can be accepted as a basis in the first reading, but there are a number of serious comments, beginning with significant, not important, but rather a reference to the terms “milk products” that are branding and so on, and so forth, should be written in more detail. But there are important points. First of all, it's an evaluation of dairy producers. Please tell us that 70 percent of milk is produced in private agriculture today. How will an uncle who has one or two cows be tested? That's the problem today. The law does not answer these questions. Article 12 also defines the rights and obligations of dairy producers and dairy producers, the rights alone. At the same time, there are only one obligations. The most complex question that has been raised here is the state support for the production of milk and milk products, which is to provide the population with these products. In article 15, which is called State Support for Milk, Milk and Milk Producers, there are such points that the State controls the quality of milk. What kind of government support is this? Or the State guarantees free choice of marketing and pricing. It's written "State support." This cannot be State support. In our view, the view of the committee is that State support should primarily be based on the financing of the selective programs that are absolutely necessary today, the second, the subsidy prices for milk, if the price in the market falls below the permissible price that the Cabinet of Ministers should determine. Then, support for child - food production should also be provided. Next, the provision of credit - support facilities. Today, milk producers do not have that kind of support. Next. Customs policy, we know that today the export of casinos is held back by the unreturned VAT on which to claim processing enterprises. Also, milk exports are supported by extended credit. It doesn't solve the law, in our opinion, the fundamental issue, is pricing. The law states in article 16 as follows: "The idea of minimum purchase prices on milk and milk raw materials and trade additives." On the one hand, it is written in the law that the State guarantees the right to free pricing, on the other hand, that the State regulates prices. But what a mechanism there is to the end. Over the past year, the minimum price for milk was 40 copies, and scientists estimated the price for milk could not be less than 80 copies. 1.3 stern units per liter of milk. Less than 80 copies of milk is a waste. And if we don't get that price, the farms will continue to carve the cattle, and no administration will stop today. But let's take a look at it. If we just set a minimum price today at 70-80, who's going to finance it. Let's also take into account that milk today is perhaps the only source of protein replenishment for the poor. Retired men today buy cheese, a work of art, as it is called, and buy milk. If we raise prices, it'll hit the pockets of these poor people. Today, we only consume 40 percent of milk since 1991. Even in 1991, we didn't go to the science-based consumption standards. So it has to be more detailed and clearly written down here for which we have to support minimum milk prices. Our position here should be an active budget. Although I do not reject the moment where to regulate the allowances for those who process and sell milk. Questions of personal support. 60 percent of the cattle are in their possession; they are not getting the VAT back fully today; this is also a matter that needs to be settled in the law. Today we support the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture to adopt the law in the first reading, but with serious refinements, so that the second reading will be made by the proposals made by the National Deputies who are now coming to the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. We've considered both projects. So the Veritenikov National Deputy project is valuable. We're going to make one project out of two projects based on government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u126	Any questions? I see what it is. Five minutes to ask. On the board, please. Omelian Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u127	Sergei Mikolaiovich, the minister, spoke and said that we had virtually no state dairy plants left. We did so in our own country that we destroyed all the elevators. You can see what we can do with bread today. We also destroyed all our dairy plants. We destroyed our meatcombs. Thus, we will be left without meat, milk, and bread. I'm giving you an example. A lot of people talk to me, people from different regions of the letter say that in September of last year they didn't count for the milk that peasants give up, because there are no cows in state ownership anymore, as Sergey Ivanovich asked, there are no peasants, mostly. And the villagers keep the cow to pay for the gas, for the light, for the water, for the apartment that they have. And today the peasants do not receive any wages from these new Ukrainians; they thought they would survive this way. But for today, they don't get paid. And the peasants went primarily to carve the cattle.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u128	Dear Omelyan Nikonovich, I have stressed this too. Today the problem for the rural population is possible for a third of the way to survive, it's not a supportive farm, it's a way to survive. But they build their relationships with processing companies as operators. Therefore, it is only up to the court to decide their relationship. We can't do anything else. On the other hand, in many cases there are objective reasons. Today, milk - based businesses are not primarily paid for their exports. Those businesses that sell milk around large industrial cities have no accounting problems. And those who were concerned with the casein, they had problems. Hence, the law should take more into account the problems not only of milk producers but also of processors. And it's very important for us to keep this chain: the manufacturer-processor-realisation. If we break it, if we just limit a single link to something, we're going to destroy the market that we have today. The law must improve itself, enable everyone to work effectively, with a steady profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u129	Bunny, please, the People's Landing Group. That's the question, I wrote a speech from the rostrum. Basil Nadrag, questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u130	Dear colleague! The question is quite right that today's purchase prices for milk do not withstand any criticism. People produce, it turns out that the water that's gasted is expensive milk several times. Do you not think that speaking of how this will end up with the final consumer, the milk and milk products, that most of the amount paid by the pensioner, the worker and everyone else, is the money that will go away to the processor? And this is where we need to take a second step: by raising the purchase price, we need to raise the issue of regulating the profitability of those who process milk and milk products. Because there's a price to raise without talking about the public's interests and everything else. And the second question. As you think, both the one and the second bills say that two years of milk processors can work without proper certification, i.e. two years can produce, in large account, anything you want, and only then prove and convince that your health and other standards have produced the final product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u131	Thank you. First of all, I strongly object to setting some level of profitability. There are economists in the room, and you, who knows the Asian economy, you know, the more cost you make, the more you might have a pitom weight of a bumper. Profitability can never determine the price. Run more costs, then you can make more purchases at the same cost. So this indicator can't affect pricing today. Yes, consult with economists. Yes, Volodymyr Kirilovich? The second question is about attestation. I agree with you. Before producing the product, the enterprise should be tested in accordance with all standards. You're absolutely right here, and when we prepare for second reading, we'll take this proposal into account. So is our position. The company manufactures only products that have appropriate permits that are tested.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u132	Igor Šurma, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u133	Igor Šurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, [[united]] Dear reporter! The bill lays down the legal and organizational basis for ensuring the proper quality and safety of milk and dairy products for the life and health of the Ukrainian population. Milk and milk raw material must meet the set quality and safety indicators. Farming involves production or processing of milk and milk products, which are tested once every five years. There are two questions. The text of article 10 of the draft law suggests that an enterprise should be required to re-test the production if its name is changed. I have a question first. How a change in the name of an enterprise affects the quality of products that are produced and maintained by an enterprise in a technological process that does not change. And the second. The bill concludes that milk, milk, and milk products can be produced or processed for 2 years without production testing. What explains the long term?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u134	It's about the first question. When an enterprise changes its name, it will also change its technical passport. This is going to happen automatically. I agree that changing the name doesn't affect the output of the product. When a new technical passport is received, new documents will be obtained.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u135	Yes, thank you. And that 2 years can go on and on for 2 years can produce some kind of product.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u136	No, it's not. No, no, no, no. Well, that's what they were talking about. The company should be tested before producing or releasing the product. First the test, then the production.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u137	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u138	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yulia Tymoshenko, Fatherland Party, Kirilchuk. Tell us whether the bill should extend the rights and obligations of inspection, State Food and Quality Inspections. That's the first one. The other one. Isn't the law supposed to introduce the concept of price seasonality, because in the winter milk is much smaller and at the same price no one will sell it. That's two. And the third. How do you think it's necessary to interest a peasant in producing milk and thus to fight against the alcohol prices at which dairy products are imported into Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u139	Again, the law must solve all problems in the complex. The next meat law, we can raise the internal price by reducing imports, especially through free economic zones. This is one way to raise the internal price. That's the first one. Second is seasonal prices. Again, for whom are we going to set seasonal prices? The law stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the minimum price in the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. But once again, what kind of mechanism, how enterprises should respond to this price, is by no means written down. We may declare a price, but it will not be necessary for those who buy milk and process it. That's why I said, this is exactly the disadvantage of the proposed bill, because there is no clear definition of price regulation and the subsidy mechanism: whether it's going to be budgeting, whether it's consumers of products, it's pensioners first, it's going to be the production of products. This block in the law isn't working. We'll be working on it with the Ministry. And inspections. Maybe. We have a veterinary inspection, a sanepidem station, we can. In many countries, in general, only the veterinary service controls all of this. If we're still, we don't have today, we don't even have the equipment to inspect the equipment and the quality of the product. How can they control the quality of produce without equipment?Oh, my God! One inspector for two districts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u140	Thank you. Please sit Sergey Mikolayovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Ten national deputies were enrolled. I think we can talk for at least 15 minutes. Alexy Kozachenko, National Authority MP. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u141	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I listened very carefully to the speech by the distinguished Sergio Mikolaiovich. I would like to point out that the minister spent four minutes of his speech on animal welfare issues, such as reduction of headquarters, damage, low purchase prices, and imports. One minute he dedicated himself to a bill that suggested the following logic. We're going to increase the quality of administration. And in doing so, let's increase the competitiveness of our production. In fact, the true logic of the bill was in one sentence: the harmonization of Ukrainian legislation with the requirements of the EU and the requirements of the WTO. Now essentially. The adoption of a bill, Ukraine's Milk and Milk Products Act, sees the following as inappropriate. Most of the bill's provisions are responsible, declarative, are sent to normative acts and need to be specified. Some of the provisions of the project have already been defined by Ukraine's legislation, such as the Ukrainian legislation on the promotion of agricultural production for the period 2001-2004, on the quality and safety of food and food materials, on the provision of health and epidemic welfare for the population, on the protection of consumer rights and others. Therefore, there is a need to avoid double - regulating these matters. It is considered inappropriate for manufacturers to carry out certifications in accordance with the requirements of the regulations and regulations of raw materials. As for the need to create a laboratory to control the proper quality and safety of raw materials for all, I emphasize, all dairy producers. It should be noted that this requirement cannot be implemented into real life, since agriculture has neither financial nor technical means. Special remarks have led to positions regarding the conduct of attestation, the reathensing of subject - to - bets. I just don't have words for it. In addition, it should be considered that all forms of ownership have been tested. Attestation and farming will be required. The introduction of a register of producers will require additional financial costs, including from agricultural producers. In my opinion, this bill has no positive effect on the animal industry. And it's basically the function of unlimited administration, and it's at the level of regulatory regulation with respect to the manufacturer. And today, our economy and its agricultural sector need measures of a deregulation nature. And the last. The dairy market needs to be protected, but not from the production of its own producer, but from the supply through the various free economic zones of the same EU, whose legislation we want to harmonise, animal production. In the end, as in that anecdotes, I want to remind you of the rabbi’s anecdotes: all that is said about milk is also true of meat. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u142	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u143	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština By adopting this law, I would like to believe that milk would still appear during the period of independence, as was the case in Soviet times when, for example, Cyrustown produced 850,000. A ton of milk or 700 kg is not the soul of the population. Sadly, milk and dairy products are virtually nonexistent today. The dairy industry was privatized to such a state that there was almost no production of its own production in the shops. And they're bringing her in from the surrounding areas. Although a dairy plant in Kirovograd was still in operation until recently. He processed five tons of milk per day at a capacity of 200 tons. But two months ago, and this factory came out of the rhythm, the workers struck, demanding the administration to pay off their wages and meet with the factory’s owner. It's just surprising that the host who privatized a few years ago this business was not seen in the eyes because he lived abroad. That's what we've been through. I, by the way, support the proposal of a draft law on the conduct of passporting and attestation of processing enterprises. They need to be dealt with by such "heavily effective" owners as the Korovograd Milk Center, and we need to say good-bye by reprivatizing them. In the area, the main producer of milk is an individual vector. The draft law clearly refers to the order of certification of dairy producers. If it's a private farm or a collective farm, obviously, and if we test an individual farmyard that holds one or two cows, that's not entirely true, people won't understand us. And that's why: the host has to pay for livestock maintenance, veterinary services, insurance payments, and that's the cost of testing the bread. And even if this work is done by commercial structures, and they are usually fast bound to light consumption, they will remove three skins from the peasant for this certification. And so it's priceless to take into the peasant's produce. The village needs to be saved, not tightened by a tighter loop. And as long as the state does not guarantee the manufacturer a minimum price for its production, the agricultural sector will not change the situation for the better, since today the majority of the funds are in the processing industry and retail trade, and only 20 percent of the income generated by the peasant is left in the village. The rest, or 80 percent, are washed away by peasants in different ways. So today the village is practically dying, and people are not unemployed, cold, hungry, picking out old techniques and wearing Soviet clothes. If by 91st in Kirovgrad, there were 200,000 people working in agriculture, today there were 65,000. Here's to "success" in the economy. [[in quotes]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u144	Yes, Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Get ready for Melnichuk Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u145	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Chief! The negative effects on the dairy sector are primarily related to the uncontrolled situation in the animal market, which has led to a sharp decline in purchase prices for milk and meat. Reprocessing companies use their monopoly on the market to place purchasing prices at the specified raw material, which are much lower than their own cost, resulting in further exacerbation of the economic and financial crisis in animal production. In addition, this has resulted in a 17 - percent reduction in cow cartilage in just a year. There are a number of other serious problems in this area that need an urgent solution to prevent further destruction in the dairy sector in Ukraine. So the draft law on milk and milk products, submitted by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is very relevant. But as the analysis of the project showed, he needs a second reading of serious work. In particular, it would be necessary in the first article to further expand the list of terms, with the reference to "traditional Ukrainian dairy products". It was necessary to write out more clearly the position regarding the protection of traditional products from technological falsification of the strengthening of quality control by the supplier and the producer of the product. It would be appropriate for milk producers and suppliers to provide additional articles, milk producers, dairy producers, and dairy products. There is a need to strengthen the requirements of article 15 regarding State support for dairy producers. There should be provision for the provision of financial State support for the export of certain types of milk products, as well as for the allocation to credit resources for producers and processors of milk to develop a material and technical base. With regard to the bill introduced by the People’s Deputy Veretennikov on this issue, there is a proposal in preparing a government project for second reading to take into account its acceptable position. It has, in my opinion, a number of very useful details and suggestions. In general, I propose to adopt a government project as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u146	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u147	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear friends! A summary of any bill can be made of any bill. Without a change of power in Ukraine, we will do nothing. This is final today, and the chairman of the session has noted everything. Adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Where is he today? More than once, socialists tried to remove the bill from the hall and eventually adopt it so that neither the minister nor the government could be in such a situation that it was impossible to enter an enterprise in Ukraine. Isn't that absurd? And haven't we done with you that the Ministry of Agriculture, which has a lot of specialists, professional professionals, has led them to have less wages today than they have in three times as many employees in the Ministry of Finance and Economics and so on. Didn't we do this with you? Me. Have we not done that today, Minister of Agriculture, let Sergey Mikolaiovich forgive me, make him a wedding general? To answer, the minister is responsible. And the importance of the impact on the district management of agriculture, there is no area management. He says there's no need for a vertical. In a state with a transitional period like ours, which has been prolonged for years, it is necessary that such a weight is needed by the Ministry of Agriculture. As for the bill, 10 years ago milk, the raw material produced by the peasant was worth 70 percent of the product that went to the store. This was support. Today, that's 18 percent. A peasant is simply being destroyed. This is about the market. What market do we have? What market attitudes in Ukraine today? You could say the market is, but it's gangbusters. The purchaser dictates the price. You don't want to take him out, he'll take him out of Poland when he's taken to Kamyanec-Podil Meatcombinate by 3.10. And today, in Herson, the price of mercury is 80-90 copies, and that's what Stanislaw Mikolayenko made a statement yesterday by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this bill should be adopted in the first reading. I think the Socialist faction will support it. Why? Because article 1 already provides 50 percent of the cost of raw material should be in the final product. Then, really, as the National MP said here, the final product will cost 50 percent of the raw material, no less. And you don't have to worry about that, and then there's 80 copies of milk. And the ruble 20 is going to cost it already in the store as it is today, but not 18 percent. I think this bill needs to give life in this room. We have to vote for him tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u148	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u149	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! The draft law does not solve the basic problem of pricing. To solve the problem, we need to narrow the gap between purchasing and cutting prices. That's the pain point. There are virtually five times the gap. What we pay in stores is that the money we pay in stores, when we buy milk, doesn't come from dairy producers. That's the root of the problem. Profits come, not from manufacturers, but from processors, intermediaries, and retailers. This is what needs to be affected. This basic problem is not solved by the bill. I don’t mind accepting it in the first reading. The problem is milk, milk products, and perhaps not even the law, but a dairy development programme, milk production, should be developed. That's another question. I don't mind, but we need to make decisions, not simulate activities that we're trying to solve. If we don't solve the price problem, if we don't narrow the gap between purchasing prices and retail prices, the problem won't be solved. We can take the law, but it won't make much sense. We also need to provide levels, roughly the prices for agricultural products, and for the products that are being sold. I mean, we need to eliminate the price distortion. If we keep it, even if there's normal prices and normal profitability for milk, the price distortion -- these scissors will cut off all of these revenue. It is necessary to stop the illegal importation of milk, especially under the tax conditions, and only in the complex can this help solve the problem. And finally. Of course, government support is needed for agriculture. I agree with the minister, but I would've put the accent wrong. I have to. But not only is there as much government support for agriculture and milk production as it is necessary to combine state support with government regulation. So that's where we're going to get the effect we're looking for. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u150	Dear National Deputies! Let's finish the question. Let me give you a few general words. We all agree that this law is necessary, it hurts us all, it burns, but I would like to highlight one thing that the Ministry wants to go through between milk producers and producers and maintain a good relationship with each other. Then we will not solve any or any other problem. I think we should be speaking, not a grant, but an order in this field. I'd like those loud calls from the Agrarian Party faction from the Ministry to be materialized. Take a bold step. And when we figure out at least the price we raise twice the milk, we don't need subsidies. People will pour milk on Ukraine. They're willing to do this, but not to pour it out to the pigs. It's preferable to be poured out to pigs. Let's be honest about these things. And today you're afraid of monopolies who are sitting in the processing industry today. If we don't make it to the second reading, this law will be "on the basket" working. And finally stand over yourselves, and do not call for the village to perish. It's dying because we're helping him do it. I'm sorry for the emotion, but it's real. And we need to make the law substantial before we read the second reading, so that it is the law, not the law. Dear colleagues, the law on milk and dairy products has been concluded. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. A draft Law on Meat and Meat Products is being announced for consideration. Please invite the Minister of Agrarian Politics to the report, Rybuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u151	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. A draft of the Law on Meat and Meat is similar to the draft Law on Milk and Milk Products, which has just been considered. It is designed in accordance with a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on steps to introduce in Ukraine the requirements of European Union directives, sanitary, environmental, veterinary, phytosanitary and international European standards. The bill also provides legal and organizational grounds for ensuring the quality and safety of meat and meat products for human life and health, the environment during their production, processing, facsimile, transportation, storage and implementation. The main task of the law is to establish requirements for producers and suppliers of meat and meat products, their rights and obligations and control bodies, quality and safety requirements, state support, and economic incentives for manufacturers and processors. Last year, farmers were killed by 2 and a half million tons of live cattle and birds, more than 8 percent of the previous year. During this year, cattle and birds have been killed, compared to the same period, by 11 percent and by 28 percent. It's, on the one hand, it's like good indicators. On the other hand, these are alarming indicators that point to accelerated carnage and even uterine carnage. However, the development of livestock and poultry markets is primarily compounded by reduced production volumes and further decreases in purchase prices. To confirm that, I'm going to say that the purchase prices for cattle and birds and sold to processing companies last year fell by 15 percent compared to the previous year's level. As a result, as a result of the decline in purchase prices, the number of cattle killed by cattle decreased by 313,000, which is 3 percent. The level of meat loss is the highest, the most destructive. The meat itself is minus 40 percent. In 2001, 21 percent. Pork meat - minus 17 percent, sheep and goats - minus 36 percent These are state statistics. We expect the adoption of the meat and meat products law to ensure, first and foremost, monitoring of livestock and poultry and the transparency of calculations between processing companies and farmers, to ensure that the incomes of meat and meat producers are stable, to support the social standard of life in rural areas. A comparative analysis of technical, veterinary, medical and biological requirements for quality and safety indicators, as established by existing legislation, has been carried out by the Ministry in the drafting of the bill. Low quality meat products are produced because of insufficient requirements for these documents, which are difficult to compete with those who import. Today, the question is to fully update the regulatory and technical documentation according to the requirements of the European Community. All of this is set out in the proposed draft law on meat and meat products. The law will also provide an opportunity to protect a domestic producer. Because all of you, honourable national MPs, know that we have low-cost imported products coming in, but somewhat at lower prices, including processed products. This is not for the purpose of creating competition for the Ukrainian manufacturer. Additionally, in Western countries there is a subsidy for animal products produced directly by a farmer. Unfortunately, we still don't have it, or it's miserable in Ukraine. State support in the field today does not, as we can see, provide profitable meat production. The law will also, in our view, allow us to regulate the work of the Ukrainian livestock market, birds, meat, meat products, and to avoid dumping, which will create optimal conditions for meat production. The law is aimed at supporting the efforts of farmers and food industries to meet consumers’ needs by improving the quality and competitiveness of domestic products in the internal and external markets. To conclude, I would like to ask you, honourable national MPs, to support this bill in the first reading as well. It is to a large extent a similar draft law on milk and milk products, and after certain, of course, processing with consideration and those remarks that now spoke to the honourable Vladimir Mikhailovich, I think. We will be able to improve the situation in the meat market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u152	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, there is a need to ask. Please sign in. On the board. Yes, Constantine Mercury Sitnik, please. You don't? Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u153	Thank you. 161 constituency. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, I've prepared myself for the speech on the first question, milk, and this is probably about quality. For example, I consider this subject, first of all, why is the question raised? You do not worry about making a big profit today, such as at that dairy or meat - and - meat plant or some other purpose or budget. What kind of salt is the primary of this law? For me, I see it in order for us to preserve the population of Ukraine. National security I see in this is the inestimable feeding of our people. Because it's 9 million. died in these last years of independence, including poor nutrition. I was born alone in the village, literally quite recently. People, of course. said Vladimir Mikhailovich, he said very correctly, the money is on the street and they say, “I will not carry milk, I will pour it out to the pigs.” The price of the meat we are talking about is the same. I have this question, well, these are all of these problems that are concerned, they are, but the main problem is whether the price should be regulated by the state for basic food products at prices that are necessary for the state? And quality. What further law is needed to maintain a quality of nutrition today? I don't know if we're gonna pass ten more laws, but is that gonna help or not? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u155	The two of us see global problems that this law has to solve and its implementation. The first is to put an end to the unprofitable production of meat as raw materials. Indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers, at the discretion of the Supreme Council, would be able to set that minimum price for milk, and in this case for meat, so that it would be good for production and not cut off from the ground, but rather to increase production. In this regard, certain subsidies must be provided to ensure that the price is both reasonable and then for the final product as well. So that's the first minimum price that makes it possible to work cost-effectively. The second group of problems is the relationship between the producer of raw materials, the processor and the implementation of the finished product, and also the level of profitability, so that there is no income, and on the other hand, not to hide the profits that are there. And the third group of issues is quality, because we have a law on quality and safety of food, but with regard to meat and meat products, we have to take care of the raw material, and there is a special chapter on which percentages, percentages, can be allowed to sub-products that. And there's gotta be a branding to buy a buyer in a store. Yes, it is. Well, to a greater extent, at least. To a greater extent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u156	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u157	Mikhailo Melniczuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, I would like you to say in one sentence how the Cabinet of Ministers will set the minimum price. That's one. It's different. We realize that this price cannot be set throughout the whole year. In order to guide the peasant, which price is already in the third, fourth quarter of 2004, he has to see the price, the minimum price that will be in effect during 2004. Do you think this could be the norm for our nation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u158	The Minister's office will assign appropriate research institutions according to a defined methodology, according to the current level of efficiency of production to implement and set an appropriate minimum price. And the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u159	Yes, it is. This draft law is meant to ensure that early, at least for a marketing year, the manufacturer knows ahead of time for a year, which is the minimum price and it has to be delivered in advance, is a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u160	Before that, explain what a farmer’s marketing is. Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u161	It's calendar, it's marketing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u162	Dear Sergey Nikolaevich. To be honest, it's a little embarrassing that we're constantly falling for some individual laws. We talked about milk, now we're talking about meat, then we're going to go out for potatoes, sugar, and so we can go, I'm sorry, to bananas and pineapples. It's a case I don't want to judge, something I'm not ready for. The bill states that the responsibility of enterprises that produce and process meat products respectively is the responsibility of enterprises in the event of violations or activities without authorization and regulation. I have a proposal for the next order, when enterprises are always tempted by a manager to some degree, I would call it, maybe not correct, hooliganized. What if we include in this bill and the personal responsibility of the people who decide to act against this law and this regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u163	There should normally be mutual responsibility for both the manufacturer and the manager of the enterprise and the state for what it has done. I support such suggestions, and we could work on them on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u164	Time's up, sit down, please. The report is given to the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Tereshku Sergey Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u165	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill was discussed at the Committee on Agrarian Policy, Land Relations. The opinion was taken into account, the point of view of leading experts, experts, scientists, was also taken into account in the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'll say right now that the law has generally found support. We see the need for the adoption of this law. I'm not going to characterize the law, it's done in detail by the Minister of Agrarian Politics. I will only point out that the need for the adoption of this law is precisely due to the imbalance of economic legal relations between market entities, between meat producers and processors, and those who implement meat products. The relationship between them is not settled today. Today, the drag is said to be blankets. Negative, extremely scary, not negative, trends in the development of meat resources. Every year we get a cut. And today, if the level of meat consumption were as medically predicted, we would not have enough meat to meet the needs of our nation’s population. Once again, we do not have State influence and price regulation for meat products today. Because of this, it was necessary to adopt this law. Let me give you an example. During the year, cattle were reduced or implemented by 25 percent more than they were in 2001. At the same time, I received an income of 11 million less than in 2000. By 25 percent, more was sold, and 11 million less was sold. During the year, farmers were under 40 million dollars — only one in the Cherkas region. That's not supposed to happen in the market economy if we're building a market economy. No one is going to produce today when they're broke. And peasants, just like other industries, should be able to have an average profit rate on a lost or advanced capital. There is no such thing in agriculture. And today, holding back, cutting out cattle in areas on the shoulders of district and district government administrations. Today, they hold back, intervene in economic processes, and hold off the carnage of cattle. That's not supposed to happen. A farmer should be able to produce milk and produce meat. In addition to the importance of the bill, it deserves substantial work. It is precisely in the law that weakly defined positions to stimulate the development of the meat industry, the protection of domestic producers. We do not produce enough meat for internal consumption in Ukraine, but we do import large quantities of meat through free economic zones. It is also a matter of State support. Just as in the previous law, it would be desirable for the state to write more clearly on the issue of State support, the essence and the mechanism in which the State can support meat production. Although the first step we took was what you, your esteemed colleagues, changed the budget, 150 million went to support the meat industry. This is well appreciated today by meat producers, farmers and businesses alike. 150 million will give each kilogram of high-quality cattle an extra 50 bracelet, a return of VAT. These are the very incentives that the State is making to increase the production of meat. So we're going to suggest that we do a more detailed state support. Again, this is budgetary support for animal selection, as it should be for milk and meat. Then, perhaps, there is a need to establish the annual needs of the interior that need to be determined. There is a need to preserve the meat subsidy as it is today. It is essential to preserve the subsidy for meat products for children or for children’s food. Again, export support. Of course, the law has regulations that need to be stylistic, which can be applied. We must make sure that our products are certified by law. Today, under unequal conditions, a large enterprise that pays all taxes that endures all standards, production standards, and that business that is produced somewhere in a barn or an unapproachable room produces what we call meat products. As a result, we want to make a certification of meat producers by law. They all have to be in the same conditions. I think that's a good point from the Science and Research Department. We're counting them, and I'm addressing you, honourable deputies, despite the fact that in the law there are many unregulated articles, many inaccuracies and discrepancies, I would still ask you to vote this law on Thursday. If you have comments and suggestions, we will take them into account in the second reading, and the law will be of great importance for the development of meat production in our country and for the support of just rural and personal farms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u166	Any questions? Please sign up. Five minutes. On the board, please. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u167	Thank you. You know, it's probably a scientifically sound calculation price just for food for meat. This is 7 centrifuges of feeding units per unit, which is 7 centrifuges of grain per center of meat. It's 3.50, if at our prices, there's only food for man. Today, the cooks drive through the villages and collect 2 pounds [2 cu kg] of meat. Live weight. This price in Ukraine’s markets does not even buy dog bones because the markets occupied the mafia. No man can fall into the market with his meat. Because of how to travel from Kiev to Zitomir on the road, they sell. It's a market order, it's not predictable. The other one. We analyzed only 13 percent of the meat transported across the border, paid for by customs, and the rest by smuggling. I would like to emphasize that these laws both have to be adopted, but it is very serious that we need to work on the committee. Very serious and deep, then it will be beneficial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u168	Thank you. I completely agree with you. Before that, I said, "Can't get administrations today to keep their heads off, can't handle meat at a disadvantage." According to scientific standards, 4 centimetres of feeding units go to the center of the bandage, even at such calculations the price of meat cannot be cheaper than 5 or 6 ounces per kilogram. I agree with you completely, but there are a few factors: those that are regulated by the law are both. It can't be the subject of market regulation, transportation, smuggling and so on. We will vote in favour of the law that provides for the importation of chicken meat and the more we limit the import of meat, the more we have the chance that the price of meat will rise. You remember, two years ago it was convenient to eat meat. Free economic zones have been opened, and the third part of Ukraine’s demand for free economic zones is that of skins, that is meat, that is bones, and they are now competing in the market. So this is a complex of measures and not all of them are regulated by law. What can be regulated by law is foreordained.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u169	Sergey Doroguntsov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u170	What I'm saying is that Ukraine has learned that today the Ministry of Agrarian Politics is headed by Rybuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Now for the questions. By the way, both of you are a reporter and co-reporter, Sergei Mikolaiovich. And the question is. You know that there are fewer cattle in Ukraine today than there were in 1915! In 1915! It's such a turnoff! And the question is, how can animals develop and live poor peasants under overexploitation conditions, if they don't add 40 percent to their worth, without taking into account the cost of their work?Oh, my God! He's counting only feeds, and his work -- he's working for nothing to get a penny that's only 60 percent of what he's doing on official data is paying for his material, non-contributory expenses. So how do we get out of this situation? Will this law help us to do so in any way?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u171	Thank you. I agree with you again, the situation in the market is catastrophic: they're being cut out because of what's inconvenient to the cattle. As a result, the law cannot solve all the problems that exist in our society. The law solves part of the problem. The rest is to be a comprehensive animal program that we'll be looking at after a while, it's already prepared by the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, it's a law that regulates the relationship between subjects working in the meat market. And the third question is what we've been talking about before, is closing down through free economic zones, it's smuggling, it's a package of measures that should allow today's production to make it comfortable. Although, I'll say, these laws, they contain a lot of provisions that are provided for in a bill that was passed last week to support agricultural development, they're intertwined somewhere. In my opinion, the law should be broader, which should take into account the problems in agriculture in a complex way. They are tied together in vegetation, animalry, dairy production, and so forth. That's why we can't solve all the issues in one law, but in the complex, we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u172	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u173	160th constituency. I don't think we're lucky that Sergei Mikolayovich is in charge. Because in his leadership, he was a substitute, and everything that could be broken down by animal production was ruined. And I've got a farmer on a pie in my county. That's the first one. The other one. A respected reporter, perhaps incorrectly referring to the Cherkas region, you do twice without explaining how the structure of production works, and today the meat and milk of the population produce more than our virtuous farms. That's the first one. The question is: Is it stipulated in the law in the second reading to distribute the aid field to a single farm, to a farm, and to a mere family that produces? A transparent, open-ended mechanism for supplicating state support. Maybe it's help, for example, free veterinary service, the market, feed, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u174	Thank you for asking. In my view, there is no need at all to distinguish, as personal enterprises, farmers and collective agricultural enterprises, and are reformed. Today, there are subjects of animal production. They must be in exactly the same conditions. That's the first one. The other one. It is the law that regulates the mechanism for receiving grants. Today, they can get a grant through natural businesses and peasants who will sell products, and we also make more strict regulations by law so that those who travel in rural carts do not buy this product for nothing. Support for all should be the same. But once again in the law, we propose to clearly record a government grant, not a difference between market price and price, which allows for a cost-effective economy. I don't see any other way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u175	Yes, thank you, Sergio Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u177	Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. Let's talk for 10 minutes. Put on the sign of those who sign up for the discussion. The name is Yuri Karmazin, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, "Our Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u178	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. First of all, allow me to say that the laws on meat and milk are completely different, and I would not stress that they are absolutely identical. There's another subject of legal regulation. With regard to the protection of state interests, I believe that this bloc of government leaders is both Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko and Minister Ribubuk, who are now in pain for the state's interests and why this law is being directed. The other thing is, I suspect that once this law is passed, once it's put into practice, they'll interfere with someone. And maybe they're in the way right now, and there's going to be attempts to get rid of them, of course. I predict it might be, but it's already a matter of assessment, everyone can be judged by its specific steps. Not to be overlooked, though, that the total amount of tax benefits granted to subjects of free, special free economic zones and areas of so - called priority development in the past year alone has been 985 million dollars, and the trend has increased by 1.8 times compared to the previous years. At the same time, the amount of aid granted to the EUFOR was 250 million dollars, and in priority development areas 735. Where are the largest scales? The biggest extent of the tax scheme was in the CES Donetsk and in such areas of the Donetsk region. There's a 734 million, or 74.6 percent of the total. Of course, at such a cost, you will not rot a void. Thus, in terms of the amount of premiums from the import duty, they increased by 2.7 times, mainly for agricultural food, meat, poultry, meat, and meat. So today's bill is about all this stuff. And thank God he's yawning. I'd like to make amends just for him. I'm in favour of adopting it in the first reading, although it needs to be amended here by laws on the quality and safety of food, on the provision of sanitary and epidemiological health for the population, on veterinary medicine. What? For example, in the second article, we predict that use is prohibited. Canned and semi-manufactured leather, starch, flour, and soybeans are allowed. Thus, it is necessary to write to the consumer and to provide information to the consumer about the composition of the products. We write about the responsibilities of the owners. But we don't make demands on imported people, and that's what we have to do. And finally, in transitional positions, we allow everyone to work two more years before the test. This term can't be allowed for more than three months, you can't be sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u179	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction, prepare for Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u180	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist faction of Ukraine, Kirovogradština This bill is very important because it seems to advocate the interests of the people. This is about the safety of consumption products, their quality and pricing. Regrettably, it is accepted with great delay when practically all cattle and birds in the social sector have been destroyed. Decommissioned animal complexes and processing plants The adoption of this law is simply a formalism. Let us recall that before 1991 there was no such law, but the people who ate meat had no doubt about its quality, the shops had an abundance of meat products, and the main price was available to each pensioner, student, colporteur, worker, and others. In the Soviet Ukraine, there was a clear state system that encouraged the production, production, and implementation of meat products. The factory produced more than 200,000 tons of meat, which has been successfully processed in businesses, and today meat production in the area has declined tens of times. The processing companies are privatized and stopped, although there is one, but also that privatized unit called "Bird" located in the city of Kirovograd. Of course, it is not able to provide the whole area with meat products, nor is it able to afford the price of a combination in the average citizen’s pocket. So there's only sub-products left. Their own meat producer is completely choked, and Bush's "scissors" is a green street. It is a pity that the hens are delivered dead, or they have told us how they were fed by growth stimulants that are so harmful to human health. Americans can't eat them, but we're not told that. The main producer of meat products is the private sector, and in the area there is a thriving mass export of livestock from rural areas without veterinary documents. It is not uncommon for cattle purchased to be slaughtered in unsanitary conditions on farms, in forests, in courtyards. And in the city of Kirovograd, right on the banks of the Ingul River, where all the waste is thrown into the river. Therefore, it is necessary to provide not only for the responsibility of the public authorities in the veterinary and sanitary services but also for the involvement of the local authorities, the village and the village heads. First of all, this law must be used to protect the producer of produce, or peasant, from which cattle are bought at no cost. So today, it is not those who produce the produce that is bad, but those who sell it. There is no such chaos. Regrettably, this wild market is in the hands of the authorities. And unfortunately, there's no end or end to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u181	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, prepare Melniczuk Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u182	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the state regulation is working for us from the opposite point of view. Where it is not needed, it is. Where it's needed, it's gone. A striking example of this is agriculture, especially the production of milk and meat. The nerve of the problem is the imbalance of the relationship between meat producers, its processors, and trade. Recyclers, the mafia trade, and the manufacturer are dying under these conditions. And the task of government regulation is to settle the relationship between the manufacturer, the processor and the trader for the benefit of the manufacturer. That's the high art of economic politics that we don't really have. And it's not just because we don't have professionals, it's because there are forces that are interested in the situation being what it is. Our task as a parliament is to regulate this relationship and to push its control function into executive power to regulate this relationship for the benefit of the manufacturer. The axiom of economic science — meat production — should not be harmful. This is the main problem that we need to tackle in all the legislative fields that we need to do to ensure that meat production is not harmful. If it is harmful, of course it will be unfavourable. This is production. So it's a problem of convenience. And only when meat production is an advantage to the manufacturer, when it is convenient to produce it will the situation change for the better. Then we'll stop cutting cattle, then we'll stop destroying animals. And in order for it to be comfortable, the axiom of economic science again has to be incentives. Both the task of Parliament and the task of the government is to create these incentives. And we should be looking at the bill precisely because of how much it creates these incentives. In my opinion, he creates to some extent. So I'm also in favour of supporting him, but not entirely, and we need to understand that perfectly. The nerves of the problem, as well as the problems with milk, are pricing, regulating the cost-effectiveness of meat production should be, trade, producers, regulated by the level of profitability. Scientifically based prices, subsidies, but not just, and creating, above all, favourable conditions for meat production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u183	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u184	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region We will vote and support this bill. The 1st article, as in the milk bill, predicts the cost of raw material produced by a peasant, at least 50 percent of the value of the product. It's a norm, a normal norm. And in general, in my view, as an agricultural worker who has worked for less than a year in agriculture, that at last some rule would at least give a European guarantee to the farmer to do everything he can to grow here the product that is urgently needed by the people of Ukraine today. This is both milk and meat. I'm not talking about the law that doesn't work at all, about the grain. But will not the fate of this bill be like that of others who agree to it be another year? And the language, Sergey Mikolaiovich, is this. What is more, the country does not need meat today, since it did not need the grain that we are purchasing today in Russia, Kazakhstan, Hungary. This is not the way the country today needs meat, by the way, cheaply, the farmer is already selling 2 bracelets, 3 bracelets. Why aren't the Reserves working? Why not set aside funds today and make a state reserve for this important product? Tomorrow the sausage will be more expensive than it is. Where's that thing in Zaporozhye? Do we not understand that? We understand. Is there no money for that? Has the Supreme Council given permission to do so? Please, there are 600 million. Do it. Do you need some? We'll find out, we'll do it. Buy it from the peasant today. Herson, Odessa, Nikolayev, other areas. That's where it all burned down. 80-90 copies, I said, are being implemented. What are we waiting for, Your Honor? In fact, what he has today is priceless. What will he live on in the first place? And this year, and the next year. I think this bill needs to be read carefully on the second reading. And the agrarian committee on this issue will be defined. I'd like to make one more observation. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I see you as a clear agrarian supporter. Today you made a few remarks as a really professional agrarian. God grant this support to be continued. But please tell me, when is the interim commission of inquiry on grain and bread market issues, am I like a co-head, and Gabrieluk will have a place to work? We do have materials for analytics, but Zajczuk is somewhat delayed in providing accommodation. We can't work. You can't work in the corridors, my dear. And the people of Ukraine want to know where the seed is, and where, excuse me, the bride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u185	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the consideration of the draft Law on Meat and Meat Products has been completed, and this is a document under the heading 3077. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. Regarding the placement of the commission, Hennady Andriyovich Vasiliev says that the premises were found for the commission. Dear National Deputies, the draft Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights has been announced for consideration. Reporter: Minister of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinović, as well as National Deputy of Ukraine Demjohin, because there are two projects. I ask the rapporteurs very briefly to explain in five minutes the basics of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u186	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. You are invited to consider a draft law that was drafted by the Ministry of Justice and introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers for your consideration. Today, one of the main measures for the creation of a property rights mechanism in Ukraine, which is part of the real estate market, is the creation of a single state system for the registration of real estate rights. The state registration of real estate rights should become official by the State as to the recognition or confirmation by the State of the origin or restriction of the transition, or the cessation of the rights to immovable property. In fact, there is not a single registration system in Ukraine at this time, but there are only distinct elements. Only legal instruments and certain technical and economic characteristics of real estate are registered. No real legal status checks are carried out and no rights are taken into account. There is no accumulation of a single information base and a link between the registration data without mutual coordination, and there is a duplication of functions. More importantly, the content of existing forms of registration does not aim at protecting the rights of owners, users, creditors in competitive market relations. The bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, provides for the creation of a single national system registration of real estate rights. The creation of such a system will allow for the strengthening of the mechanism for the protection of the rights of natural and legal persons to their property, as provided for in the Constitution of our State, and will allow individuals and legal persons to have information about the rights to immovable property from the register of real estate rights. In view of the assignment, the bill provides for the creation of a single system of rights that integrates the registration of such rights into land and immovable property. This bill is the first step towards the creation in Ukraine of a system of state registration of real estate rights, which is intended to ensure the registration of all real estate rights and to facilitate the implementation of the guarantees, real estate rights, protection, market economy development, investment activity, the elimination of tax evasion and tax evasion provided for in the Basic Law of our State. The subject of this draft law is the legal relationship that arises in the area of State registration of immovable property rights. In order to create an orderly registration system, it is essential to establish a single registration system, to identify the location of the registration of each property, and to establish the principles for the establishment of registration districts. Yes, the project proposes to establish that the state registration is carried out at the location of the property within the district of registration. It is predicted that compulsory state registration is subject to the rights of natural and legal persons, including States, in the person of bodies authorized to manage state property. Restricted property rights are registered after registration of such property. The registration of rights is carried out on the initiative of the lawyer. The mandatory national registration is subject to the burdens imposed on immovable property by the appropriate authorities or officials, as provided for by the applicable law of Ukraine. The registration of loads is carried out by the authorities or officials who are under ban on the management of immovable property or of the person in whose interest the load is placed. With a view to establishing an appropriate professional level of registrations to work, it is suggested that certain requirements be laid down for them. Among them is the obligation to have a higher legal education. I'm not going to list all the other positions that are in this law, and I just want to point out that in accordance with the Civil Code of Ukraine, which will take effect on January 1st next year, is foreseen. That real estate rights only arise after the state registration of these rights. And that's going to happen on January 1st next year. However, the state system for the registration of real estate rights has not been established at this time. So in order for this system to be created, we suggest that we take a careful look at the bill and get it to take effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u187	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Is it? Please sign up, five minutes. On the board, please. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, you may know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law on state registration of immovable property rights, adopted it on July 7, 2000 and then sent it on second reading for second reading. Thus, there is a law that is adopted in the first reading today. which regulates the same legal relationship that governs this law. You didn't ask about the annulment of the decision to adopt that law, and we are now considering this clearly necessary law. As you plan to get out of this colossus, first. And secondly, why couldn't we work on the law already adopted in the first reading, taking into account some novels? Which are now being proposed. I can't understand it, please explain it to me and the Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u189	First, with regard to the law that was passed in the first reading, and we worked with him in the first vocation and were ready to consider it, but the exclusive authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine which of the laws that were adopted only in the first reading would be considered in the next vocation. You and the Ukrainian national deputies have made such a decision that the law adopted in the first reading will continue to be considered, in the second, not adopted. So in this case, this is the exclusive prerogative of the Ukrainian National Deputies, and neither the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, nor the Ministry of Justice can afford your rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u190	Yes, National Deputy Petrenko, Communist faction. Is it Petrenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u191	Yes, thank you. Petrenko, the Communist faction. Alexander Vladimirović, with the introduction of this law, we are obviously eliminating the possibility of filling the local budget. The same Bureau of Technical Inventory dealt with these cases, which were some kind of access to the local budget. And now?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u192	With regard to budgetary problems, I want to say that the Bureau of Technical Inventory did only part of the functions, they did the registration of the legal documents, and that's what was being paid and paid. And part of this money, I don't have absolute numbers right now, but I know that these are utilities that aren't corrupt, of course, but they don't create serious revenues to local budgets. What's more, as of today, 326 Bureau of Technical Inventory are operating in Ukraine, and they're very uneven throughout the territory. Well, let's say there's a multimillion-dollar Kiev, there's one such enterprise, there's many smaller cities or areas where there's 12-15. And here's to talking about some serious budgetary problems, I don't think you should. It's worth talking about the huge budget losses that are due to the fact that we don't have a single system of accounting and responsible treatment for the payment of taxes that are related to the ownership of this property, and from the fact that we don't provide real protection to those who buy, sell or, say, inherit property. This is a requirement that occurs on a mediocre basis even from our basic law, and this is a requirement that is life itself before who works in the real estate market today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u193	Vasil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u194	Gavriluk Vasil Vasilovich, 147 constituency, Kremenchug, members of the People's Government. Please tell the honourable reporter how this bill raises questions as to how the owner can confirm the registration of his property rights. How this will be done. That's the first question. And the second. How different your bill is from the MP's bill, which goes by the next issue, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u195	With regard to the question of how the registration will be confirmed, this should be confirmed by the removal from the register, which must be carried out, of the only state registry of real estate rights. As for the second question, what are the differences. You obviously know that it's been a long time since this bill was introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and after it was considered in a profile committee, it's come up with the idea of whether or not it wants to develop a next project to be reported after this government project. You can look at it, put it next to it, and you can actually see the original and the finality of the individual moments. The three differences that I see are serious, the first is that it relates to the status of the organs that have to register stately, if the project that the Cabinet of Ministers made clearly defines that this is a legal function that has to be carried out in the justice system, then the project that was implemented by the people's deputies leaves this status unspecified, because on the one hand it's going to be central, local and executive authorities, without specificization. This is if I am not mistaken in article 5. And 7 says that the local authorities are going to be accounting for non-profit enterprises, which, legally speaking, is not acceptable, because we can't have executives being calculating. Although theoretically they can, do not let God write it down in the laws. The third difference that is, is that the project that will now report, it foresees, let's say, for a transitional period, additional funding from the state budget plus the costs that are to be incurred to build a new registration system. This project of the Cabinet of Ministers does not provide for budgetary expenditure, because this system is planned to be made on the basis of current, particularly the Bureau of Technical Inventory across Ukraine, which exists, in order to involve existing authorities in local areas without creating new ones. Only to create a separate system within these organs that has to function. Also, certainly use the base that is now operating as the only electronic register that is today incomplete, but from February 1st it works in the justice system. These are probably the differences. Well, there are still some nuances that relate to correlation with the standards of a civil code that has been adopted. For example, there are some problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u196	Thank you. Out of procedure, please, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u197	Dear reporter, Mr. Secretary of Justice, I wanted to, you know, ask you a question. I know that I have done great work under this law and is now paying attention to the Canadian Institute. And I was, like, involved in the development. This system. I have a question like this, I can't say much right now, because time is running out. The main question, as expressed here, is the provision of a transparent real estate market, is the main one. Does this mean that today such a system will be established when each individual or body can be removed. about the real estate of each person, object, or business there. For example, when you enter a computer, you pull out what, for example, is there a cabin in Hinzburg that is 60 hundredths of the earth or something else? Do you understand what I'm asking?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u198	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u199	Is this today in this law or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u200	The law makes it clear that such information can be obtained by authorities and officials who are required by law. In particular, according to the court's decision, by order of the investigator, by the owner's decision. Full information will be provided. Besides, it's the difference between two projects that information about a particular object that I'm interested in, I want to buy, without information about the owners, it can be given about the legal regime, so that we can avoid that situation when, like, two months ago, letters come that I bought the apartment, and it turns out that it already belonged to those who sold it to me. In order for this not to happen, it would have to be an exact state registration, and every citizen was protected from being deceived.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u201	Thank you. Have a seat, please. As long as Demyochin walks, dear of procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u202	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I address our colleagues in particular. My dears! We all sign up for a statement, if we start looking for a reason to ask questions and everything else, it will be inappropriate for others. I have no doubt that everyone has questions, but neither can I. By calling the situation a procedural one, we are in fact continuing the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u203	Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjochin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u204	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, the People's Deputies! The Ukrainian law on "State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations" is a very relevant law for the country today. The main purpose of the law is to protect real estate rights and improve the accounting system. An analysis of the world's best practices in the organization of State registration of property rights and restrictions on them clearly shows that a single registration system of this type is based on ownership of land. It is from the land database that the State's universal registration system begins to be built. This approach ensures rationalization of efforts, both for users of the registration system and for the State, both the creator and the holder of the system. This solution improves the overall process of taking into account property rights to real estate. And restrictions on them. Real creation of an enabling environment for economic development and, above all, innovation and investment. Continued adaptation of Ukraine's legal framework for registering property rights to the conditions of the European Union of our neighbours. In short, this is a modern and progressive solution. It is the main motive for drafting the bill. On the other hand, it should be noted that in July 1999, the Supreme Council adopted a bill on the registration of real estate rights. [[No.0954]] In September of the same year it was aimed at. for re-second reading. During that time, the Civil Code, the Earth Code, had been adopted, which had largely created a situation of obsolescence of the bill. With regard to the Cabinet of Ministers and our deputy. The subjectivity and departments that emerged in the consideration of the 2 bills must be overcome. The situation of competition in draft laws is not exclusive in our situation. The basis of the dispute is to whom, to which body to register: the Minist or Goskomem. From our point of view, Goskomem. It should be noted that the 2580-1 MP project has a number of substantive features. I will briefly present the findings of the comparative analysis on the following criteria. Under existing legislation. Our bill is in full conformity with the Constitution, the Civil Code and the President's decree of 17 February this year. The extent to which the registration of rights and the maintenance of the inventory is performed by a parliamentary project provides for the full maintenance of both the register of rights and the land register, which essentially includes the registration of three types of legal instruments: State acts on property rights, the right to use and the rental of land. Compliance with the principle of social orientation. The MP project ensures the implementation of the technology principle of one window - when all registration and information services are provided in one office. The draft Cabinet of Ministers, on the other hand, brings great inconvenience to users, makes it necessary to visit three institutions: the Statecomme is an inventory, the technical inventory office - the inventory of real estate and the Minust register of rights and limitations. Establishment of a single cadastral registration system. The Cabinet of Ministers project involves a triple system rather than a single one. A single system is envisaged by our bill. Taking into account existing infrastructure. Project 2580-1 provides for the maximum use of the entire existing organizational vertical of Goskomem, namely information, cartography, logistics, human resources to the district level inclusive. The extent to which the legislative provisions for registration processes are detailed. The MP project provides a high degree of adequacy to the actual registration procedures and provides a clear basis for the development of further regulatory provisions. In the draft Cabinet of Ministers, much of the important aspects of registration remained outside the text. Ensure the reliability of the recorded information on the ground. Our project provides for the establishment of a guarantee fund. Use of information technology in accordance with the general principles of registration. The MP project calls for a more complete but ultimately cheaper automated information system. And in accordance with the rules of the world practice of registering real estate. The Cabinet of Ministers' project is not in line with the world's practice of maintaining cadastral and property rights. On the contrary, Project 2580-1 has undergone public testing and meets contemporary criteria and trends in world practice. Given the circumstances, the conclusion is that we would like to support our bill. Moreover, much of the government project has been taken into account in the drafting of our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u205	Thank you, Vladimir Anatolyevich. The question is, isn't it? Let's sign up for the questions. Please point it out on the board. Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u206	Dear Vladimir Anatolyevich, next order of business. Both the government and the MPs have laid down one rule, which, in my view, will lead not only to the trains but, in general, to dead ends. In particular, article 3 of the Government's proposal and the corresponding proposal are also provided for in the MP's proposal, which does not involve the conclusion of any civil law treaties on immovable property, unless the property is registered. It's good when we talk about people who have a lot of money, they have a Mercedes to hang around and do everything. In real life, a pensioner in a village, in a city, doesn't matter where things are often mediated, because life is more urgent -- a piece of bread needs to be earned if he faces a situation, and, don't give it to God, if it doesn't happen, and the heirs will face the situation that man hasn't registered his real estate in his own time under our bill, I think it's those most vulnerable categories of the population that will be deadlocked. And we'll look for a way out. Because people, I repeat, do not deal in real life with the problems of legal status in a large way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u208	You know very well how the land was constructed during the leasing, and how it ends, don't you? Part of the funds for agrarians were foreign grants. I think that in this situation it is necessary to look for the financial resource, not from the budget, but from the activities of the newly established body, for example, where that part of the population that is unable to pay for this registration is not expected to be expensive, without payment. But to leave unaccounted for, unregistered land, four years is allocated to the implementation of the bill. It is then anticipated that complete inventory will be completed in 2008. It seems to me that resources can be sought to satisfy the poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u209	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u210	Thank you. Please pass the word "Hinsburg."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u211	Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u212	Thank you for the word. Volodymyr Anatolyovich, I have a question. Today, in order to form a house, for example, in a village, people don't do almost that, because it's very expensive -- 500 dollars, it's very expensive for them. I have a question for you. In your law and in the law that the Ministry has presented to us today, it is the State's duty to form. It's a government tax, first of all I'm worried about, what's the price? Can a person simply pay for it? And other things. Then the transformations, the cancellations there, the repayments, the changes to the record, they pay for themselves, they pay for themselves. I'd like to ask you a question: Who will regulate the prices for all of this? And one more question that I don't know very well is that it's not done to get us there, the mortgage, I see, that we can then put people in such a position that they're going to put their real estate in banks to get loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u213	Well, if we talk about how to create conditions for people to bet their assets on money through, say, a mortgage, you know, it's a personal matter of every person and farm, as he does his own business. If they've decided that we can sell his land for three kopecks, there's nothing we can do about it. But when it comes to land accounting, it's very important to know, and our state record should be based on land coordinates. Here it is, the point of the earth, and what does it have to do with it? We have today, we discussed on a round table at the tax administration yesterday, we have a legal address for a bunch of firms. You see, they're not attached to a particular land, to a particular object. As far as the value is concerned, the system is not expected to be profitable. So she won't make any money. And the more the registration is going to go, the more the system works, the more the financial replication is going to happen, like in telecommunication systems -- the more we load them, the less the cost of the service becomes. I guess it'll be less if the system works effectively and more mass.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u214	Vasil Gavriluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u215	Gavriluk, 147 constituency, Kremenchuk, National Authority MP. Vladimir Anatolyevich, I have studied the bill very carefully, and I want to say that the People's Government will support the MP's bill, but I would like to clarify the following. We have, you know, the Civil Code, if there is a sale and one party is a private person, then the notary must be examining this issue, whether it will not be double-checked at the time of adoption of the bill, given that the authorized authority will now verify and monitor these operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u216	Well, there's a registration function and there's a notary assurance function. If you have properly prepared documents, you have come to the same office and registered your rights, your property, and duplication is not envisaged here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u217	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of the national economy, property and investment of Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u218	Thank you. Dear colleagues who have come to this time! The point is that since the New Year, the Civil Code of Ukraine has been in force, and the Civil Code of Ukraine has already raised the issue of registration as a matter of urgency. Since 2004, under the terms of the new Civil Code, we have to put in place a system of state real estate registration, and this must be done. The committee has been working on this issue for a long time, and in the past, four different bills have already been drafted somewhere, including one of the bills mentioned here that came up with a second read. And the work continued. On February 12, 2003, a round table was held to discuss the project presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was reported here by the Honourable Minister, Mr. Lavrinović. People's deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, central executives, local self-government and experts participated in the round table. And it was the outcome of the discussion that a recommendation was made on the preparation of an alternative bill that would take into account the provisions of the Civil Code and suggest the creation of a single system of state registration of property rights for all forms of property and limitations of these rights. Such a project was prepared and submitted by the legislators of Demyokinm and Matthew’s initiative, and he reported just before I spoke. It should be noted that a large part of what we consider to be the basis of the government project proposals has been taken into account editorially when preparing alternatively. At the committee meeting, the alternative was recommended for adoption on the first reading as a basis. And the Cabinet of Ministers project is recommended to be rejected. And cancel the Supreme Council's decision to adopt a transitional project from the third call at number 0954. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council support such a decision with the following motives. The alternative bill has, in our view, been able to implement a comprehensive approach that governs the economic, legal and regulatory framework for the creation of a single system of state registration of immovable property rights and restrictions on the requirements of the Civil Code of Ukraine and world practice. The project provides for the creation of a single system of state registration of real estate rights, a state register of property rights and restrictions. The registration of property rights is based on the cadastre number of the land assigned to it. The State recognises property rights for immovable property acquired under existing legal acts to take effect by this law. Property registration is being carried out, I stress, when it's necessary to commit real estate rights. So there's no reason, as they say, no sales, no donations, no inheritance, no documents, and as a register is created, it's a specialized body. We don't interfere with the rights and don't worry, as they say, about the owners. Do what is right with regard to real estate subject to the registration of ownership rights for such objects. Recognition of the priority of registered property rights and restrictions over registered ones And the registration of real estate rights and their limitations in the registration body will follow the location of the real estate or most of it. The advantages of the alternative project are the only administrator of the state register of property rights, which unfortunately was not in the government's real estate, land and building project. It is envisaged that a system of registration will be set up using data from the state register of land, data, I emphasize, the Bureau of Technical Inventory, the Bureau of Technical Inventory will remain in the same status as they have today. An extremely important argument for adoption on the basis of an alternative project is to ensure the interests of the largest group of owners, the owners of the land rations and private housing, because the project provides for the registration of real estate property rights only if the following rights are to be exercised in respect of such real estate. As a result, the committee recommends that an alternative bill be supported by a colleague of Demökhin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u219	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Questions. Please, Olga Hinzburg, one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u220	Thank you. I have one question for the reporter. Please tell me, I understand the registration of the earth, the cadastre you're talking about, whether we have it, or whether we can tie it up today to make a serious satellite shot or something so that we can take it seriously. Do we not have that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u221	Yes, it is today, and the earth cadastre is today in an efficient form, in an efficient state, which the committee has made sure of by learning about the status of such works. There are cadastres, and it may take about six months to complete them. But today each land area has its unique cadastre number and is mapped out. It's all done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u222	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich. Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Let's take 10 minutes to discuss this. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready. Anatoly's cold is gone. Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u223	The Party of Fatherland Defenders, Yuri Carmazin, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you remember the ancients saying, "Platon is my friend, but the truth is more expensive." I'm supposed to be friends, but the truth is more expensive. Let's call things our names. First. In 2000, we adopted the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights. A good law that was being developed was given for second reading. But then it was not for political reasons. Then Minust submits and develops, and thanks to them for doing so, they have developed a good bill I can say, from a national point of view, a bill has been drafted. It was filed on December 25, 2002. Suddenly this a, Vladimir Mikhailovich, is not clear why he falls, not on the Committee of Legal Policy, but on a completely different committee that I respect, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. This committee was supposed to be second, so it should be divided. And only May 15 is the so - called alternative bill. Why did I use this combination called "so-called." Open the Rules and see if an alternative bill can be submitted only three weeks after the main bill has been registered. Let's be objective again and remember the truth: "Platon is my friend, but the truth is more expensive." Now on the content of the bill and on what is proposed in the bills of colleagues of Demjochin, Matthew and other national MPs and what is proposed in the government bill. The government bill proposes that the State Register be held by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. And so in virtually all states. The Justice Department responds. I realize there's been a lot of attention by the Canadian government and various round tables and so on, but let's see if we need to create new structures without a normal vertical and actually new ministries. I'm reading the MP's project. "The central government registration agency provides functions and organizes work." And so on and so forth. The position is approved by the President for submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! What, then, is the purpose of the law? Surprisingly, the government bill is even more democratic in this regard. Now, with regard to comments specific to the government bill, which will undoubtedly have to be written down. I think we're going to have to change a lot of things and make our proposals. And I would like to point out that it is forbidden to inherit unregistered immovable property.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u224	Thank you. Please, Yuri Solomatin. Get ready for Boris Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u225	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Dear colleagues! The situation is so clear that after the speech of the committee head, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko may and may have nothing to add to what I was preparing. So once again, we need to agree on both bills. The first is by cancelling it and borrowing what is useful in the second bill of 2580 of December 26, 2002 to redraft it, taking into account the observations that were made here. The bill is useful, whether we want it or not, capitalism in Ukraine has taken place, and property rights we have regardless of our wishes to bear witness to by certain legislative acts. And the seconds I have left, I want to say in defense of the name of the genius, the great son of the Ukrainian people, Taras Grigorovich Shevchenk. In the press, there was a roar of famous national Democrats over another attempt by some political forces and their media in dirty underwear to dig up and tarnish Taras Shevchenk's name. Every sane person understands and supports this. But what I want to say to these nationalists is that you started these tools in 92nd year, and when you started with the supply of the so-called archeologist, Morocco, to burn the name of the great marshal of the victory of Zhukov. I will stress only the four documents that have refuted this filthy slander. At the Ukrainian state level, this correction was made by the State Central Archive of the Social Organizations of Ukraine, a rebuttal in the "Letterature Ukraine" on March 5, 92, in the Military History Journal of 4 and 5, 1992, the Chief Archives Office of the Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u226	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u227	"Be careful, you fake!" - Government courier number 163 on October 20, 1994 and "Gazet Ukrainian" on December 22, 94. Ladies and gentlemen! Here is Mr. Leukko Lukyanenko, with a goat’s whiskers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u228	Turn off the microphone. Ladies and gentlemen, when the MP is not speaking on the subject, I have the right to turn off the microphone. Anything, please. Please. Finish it, finish it, please. Please, Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u229	Boris Bespalij, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party, by Kiev. Dear colleagues, the need for this law no longer raises any doubt, not just because it is foreshadowed by the Civil Code, but because it comes out of the need for life. We have developed completely new forms of property that need to be regulated. And today, the fact that this procedure is braked just makes life very difficult for people. And there's no question that one single registration body should have for real estate objects. And that doesn't bring up a discussion here either. What is the serious problem, or what should be the basis for this registration system? One version of the Ministry of Justice, which is already under sufficient criticism here, I'm not going to repeat myself, I don't think he'll find any support. Another option is the statecomy, the main object in line with the BTI. But let us see, dear colleagues, what types of property do we have? These are land plots, really. And I'll say, the Canadians who were regulating it here were making an effort to work on this project, maybe this is the basis for real estate. But for example, if we take Ukraine, we have more here, let's say, in the same city of Kiev, which I have the privilege of representing in other cities, these are private apartments. And please tell me, what is the attitude of the Statecommem has to these apartments, most of the real estate? Just like the garages? So I think there's a certain lack of logic here. So, in my opinion, it seems to me that the basis for creating such a single registration system is to be the active authorities on the basis of the existing technical inventory bureaus that agree with the cases where this applies to land areas with land administration. As far as ministurium is concerned, its role here is to contribute to the creation and control of the legal framework, because, really, from a legal point of view. Another plus that, BTI exists today, there's a branched system, actually, you don't have to start from scratch. And one of the remodeling lessons that we've learned is that what we can't break should not be broken. And the biggest principles, the biggest reasons, are already done, and the best real base is the Bureau of Technical Inventory. So, I think, after the proper improvement of the legal support of the Ministry of Justice and generally the Cabinet of Ministers, we have to support that logic, and unfortunately, I don't think any of the proposed bills fit in. If they can be worked out this way, they will need support. For the time being, the replay of the first reading can be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u230	Thank you. Talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk-talk. Please, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Carmazin is my friend, but the bill is more expensive. The issue of real estate registration we've been living on for a long time now, it's time to shut down the bill. A long time ago, there was a struggle between three dentists — the Bureau of Technical Inventory, the State and the Minist — for the right to conduct real estate inventory. We are now considering two bills of the Cabinet of Ministers that propose the creation of a single system, but within the Ministry, in practice, there is a compromise option, which creates a single system based on the State Committee, including the Bureau of Technical Inventory and the involvement of the Ministry. The main question is, is it the only system or not? That's the answer we have to give. I would not take it a sin to claim that we were able to reach a solution to this issue in an ideal way, but that we were getting very close to resolving the issue. And I think we have reason to adopt the MP's bill in the first reading. In the process of preparing for second reading, much can be taken into account in the Kabmina bill. I emphasize that this is a compromise, the result of compromise. And Parliament is the temple of compromise. And if we've reached some compromise, let's get together on this. What is the basic question here? What are we trying to accomplish? To be the only system, the only window, the only pay and the only bribe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u232	Yeah, we're done. The Minister of Justice concludes and the chairman of the committee summaryes the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u233	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! From the discussion that has taken place, I would like to ask you, when a similar question is resolved, it can only be resolved the way the national MPs want it to. But the argument is, if it's used to have some kind of base. The first thing I want to say in general is, of course, that these bills are identical. The second thing about value is what they said about not destroying it. I want to remind you once again that this system is functioning in a large amount today. It is suggested to break and build a new one instead. As for the cost, read the position that relates to the use of budget funds. Count what has already been spent and the amount of that loan that will have to be given to those who worked on this idea of creating another bill when the veto was essentially used to review the draft law that was introduced by the government for consideration by the Supreme Council. And nothing needs to be taken into account in the second reading. Everything you could take was already taken when you wrote this project. So I think that's already, let's say, a rhetorical question. Thank you. And I ask you to make the necessary decision for the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u234	Stanisław Ivanovich Gurenko, head of the committee, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u235	Gurenko, the Communist faction, head of the Committee on Questions. I want to make something clear. I want to say, this is property right, this is property. And our committee is called the Property Committee. And all the previous bills were discussed on this committee, even when it was the head that you respect so much right now. That's why there's no need for hints. The other one. Nothing breaks, I'm surprised. Either they didn't read the law, or they want to turn the white out. None of them are eliminated.!!!!Oh, my God! We need to create a registration service, and the Minista needs to be created by Narcomism. So in Narcombe today, there's a hook in every area, there's people, there's technology. And it's around them that we're proposing to create, and it's the exact same cost if it's not smaller, because there's no such body in the justice system. Therefore, honourable colleagues, either let us read, or let us avoid giving arguments that are not contained in the bill. I don't think it's an alternative bill. This is a vision of the members of the committee of this problem, and the right of the Supreme Council to determine. Once again, nobody is destroyed, BTI is destroyed, everything is used as it is, and it is gradually integrated into the future system. As far as expenses are concerned. I don't know who said credit, who said that word. The calculations we may have made at the amateur level, we feel that in those years the Supreme Council can determine both five and six years and seven years. budget allocations. It is now thought that someone needs to borrow, and in which currency, in bracelets, respected friends. In your bracelets at the expense of your budget, just believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-04-m0.u236	Dear National Deputies, consider the draft law on State registration of real estate rights completed, and we will make a decision taking into account the discussion. The time is running out, so let's not make a big deal out of it, I can't go on with my work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 o'clock work on committees, factions and groups. Tomorrow's day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. Thank you, dear fellows, for your work.
