ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:01:56]] Registered -402 402 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Zebrovsky Paul Ivanovich. Let us welcome him and wish him every success. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules on Friday, we discuss the issue of daytime order according to schedule. You have a list of questions to consider. Since the Rules do not provide for the consideration of parliamentary requests, I ask your permission to consider and vote on parliamentary requests. Is there no objection? A request was received from the People’s Deputies of Ukraine. Anatoly of Frost to the Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Marchuku on urgent measures to save from the liquidation of the only unique diesel company in Ukraine, VAT "SouthernDieselmash" of the city of Tokmak Zaporezki district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:19]] For-125 Decision taken. Victor Baloga, Ivan Mihovic, to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, asked about the delay in investigating a criminal case involving the assassination of a deputy of the Zacarpathian District Council, an assistant to the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Vasyuta. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:03:58]] For 158. Decision taken. Group of National Deputies - Katerinczuk, Skomarowski, Diminsky - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of a trade fair in the Hemlinsky district of Winnick. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:04:30]] For 134 Decision taken. Leukka Lukjanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfying status of the preparation of the aircraft depot for the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with the restructuring of the Kharkiv Institute of Air Force Kožeduba. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:01]] For-147 Decision taken. Group of National Deputies - Katerinczuk, Skomarowski, Diminsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the closure of the hospital in the village of Selnica Hmilnicky district of Winnicky district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:33]] For 158. Decision taken. Vassil Kalinczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory granting of settlement in the District of Split, Odessa District, postal services to the branch in connection with their restructuring. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:07]] For a-117. Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Michael Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of representatives of the Chernobyl Women's Council in connection with the delay in paying them social assistance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:40]] For-138 Decision taken. Igora Ostaša and Valerija Desertka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of the higher vocational school of 34 in the city of Stry Lvivsk district. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:12]] For 116 Decision taken. Omelana Parubka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order No. 551 of April 19, 2002 on the number of sites funded by government centralised capital injections in 2002. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:49]] For 124 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the protection of the families of members of Kyiv High Training School 3 in connection with the threat of their removal from the dormitory. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:20]] For 139 Decision taken. Groups of People's Deputies, Nosenko, Orzhachowski, Kuharczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on violations of public interest in privatization. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:51]] For 118 Decision taken. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the disregard for the legitimate rights of citizens who have suffered as a result of the CHAES accident to receive food funds. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:21]] For-151 Decision taken. Valentina Zubova to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in connection with the closure of the small-scale Sokol market in Donetsk. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:51]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers decision of 26 September 2002 No. 1418 concerning the programme for the prevention of iodine deficiency in the population in part of the organization of the production and processing of salt in the Heroic Herson Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:30.]] For-125 Decision taken. Valery Assadchev to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the purpose of restricting acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of citizens' rights to pensions under the Law on Scientific and Scientific Engineering. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:01]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Stanislava Kosinov to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco of Ukraine for the financing of compensation for payments to victims of the Chernobyl disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:29]] For the 110. Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Mihovich, Baloga, Ivancho, to the head of the Ukrainian President's Administration for ignoring the District Council's decision on the mistrust of the head of the Mukatsev district government administration of Djachenk when he was dismissed from his office as President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:05]] For-141 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko and Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the large-scale theft of property of the State Mobilization Reserve in the Luhansk Region, in a submission by the district attorney. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:35]] For-141 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the crime of the tax police of the city of Kirovgrad regarding Faust. The request is being sent. [[10:13:01]] For 124 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Baloga, Ratushnjak, Mihović - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the illegal use of confiscated vehicles, the Chief Executive of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Zakarpat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:38]] For-147 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Boki, Pavlovenko, Spodarenko, and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine are again asked in connection with the lack of response to a parliamentary request for budget waste in the Ukrainian National Committee of Youth Organizations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:14]] For 135 Decision taken. Eugene Jovtak to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the obstruction of the head of the Kyiv District Administration of the criminal investigation into the death of an agro-firmer of the Vassilk district of the Resetnik. I'll bet you a vote on the motion. [[10:14:50]] For 169 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fight against organized crime and corruption and legal policy on violations of legislation by individual judges of the Hartz City Court. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:29]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatoly of 1997wayka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity and improper investigation of a criminal case based on the fact that a fraud was committed by the head of Autogen, the city of Jenakiyovo. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:03]] For 113 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of official negligence, abuse of office, corruption, misinformation to Ukrainian national deputies by individuals of the Attorney-General and the Lviv District Attorney-General. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:39]] For 134 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for formal references to the request of the National Deputy of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:07]] For a-117. Decision taken. Sergija Slabenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, in response to his dissatisfaction with the defence of Ukrainian national MPs by giving them arms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:37]] For 109 Decision taken. Veacheslava Koval to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine on problems of the quality of traffic of the suburban electric trains in the direction of Korosten-Kyiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:07]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Anatolysa Moroza to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of co-workers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Zaporozhye area concerning the Colossian agro-firm. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:38]] For 105 Decision taken. Mikoli Krutz to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the transfer of Military City No. 55 to the territorial community of the village of Krikhovci, the Ivano-Frankow City Council. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:08]] For 1052 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the situation in the mining town of Smolino Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:36]] For a-117. Decision taken. Vassil Kalinczuk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the subject of unsatisfactory settlement of the issue of the payment of life support to the wife of a dead judge. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:04]] For-96 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups of the People's Deputies of the State Property Fund of Ukraine and others headed by the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the violation of the State's interests in the privatization process in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:33]] For 101 Decision taken. Valery Desert Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine regarding violations of terms and procedures for issuing licences to operators. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:03]] For-79 The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to work on the schedule for today’s session, Friday, March 21. Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003 is under consideration. Dear colleagues, what will be the offer? Please report by Mikhailo Mikolaiovich Papiev, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. How much do you need, Mikailo Mikolaiovich, for the report? Dear colleagues, maybe that's how we'll build: 10 minutes -- information, 15 minutes -- questions, answers, and the rest of 20 minutes -- discussion. Is there no objection? Please, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! On December 26, 2002, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003. According to the Act of January 1, 2003, a minimum wage of 185 dollars per month has been set and from July 1, 237 dollars per month has been set. Since this law was passed after the approval of the National Budget of Ukraine 2003 Act, the costs of introducing new minimum wages were not included in the State Budget. Taking into account the situation surrounding the introduction of this law, the President of Ukraine's appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 and under article 52 of the Budget Code, the Cabinet of Ministers developed and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the State Budget Act 2003. It should be noted that during the 2003 revision of the National Budget Project in the Supreme Council, expenditure on local budgets has already been increased to 1.6 billion dollars to raise wages in the third reading. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine has sent clarifications to ministries, departments, and government about the order of implementation since January 1, 2003, the minimum wage of 185 dollars a month. The Ministry of Finance explained in January of the current year how to plan expenditure on the salaries of budget workers in the development of local budgets for 2003. In particular, it has been reported that in determining the amount of inter-budgetary transfers between the national budget of Ukraine and the administrative and territorial unit budgets, the projected expenditure, which has already allowed us to increase the salary of the budget staff since 1 January 2003, is to introduce a minimum wage of 185 dollars with a phased recovery of the broken ratios in pay. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has now set up a working group under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council to prepare a harmonized draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the 2003 National Budget, based on a bill introduced by the Government and bills introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies. Dear National Deputies! I would like to draw attention to some of the circumstances when making a decision on this matter. According to the International Labour Organization Conventions of the Ukrainian Labour Law on Pay for Work, article 9, the minimum wage should be set by taking into account the overall average wage level. According to world practice, the ratio of minimum wage to average wage in developed countries is between 30 and 60 percent. For example, in January 2003 in the GNI countries, this was 9.2 percent in Russia, 19.3 percent in Belarus, 13.3 percent in Moldova, 22.7 percent in Kazakhstan, and, I want to stress, in Ukraine, it was 46.2 percent. Taking into account the growth of the average wage, which is 440-460 dollars, and the minimum wage of 237 dollars per month, as provided for by law, is more than 50 percent in the second half of 2003. At the same time, the critical situation has arisen in certain areas of the manufacturing sector, especially in agriculture and fish farming, textiles, and other areas of light industry, where the average wage in January of the current year was between 158 and 250 dollars a month. In these sectors and sectors of the economy, the minimum wage will be higher than or equal to the average wage, so in these sectors of the economy, without such negative consequences as price increases, the increase in the debt of wages and the possible release of workers, and this law cannot be implemented. This is confirmed by the statement made by the head of the Federation of Employers of Ukraine, Mr. Miroshnichenko, at the joint meeting of the representatives of the parties on the summary of the implementation of the 2002 General Agreement, which took place on 17 March of the current year. Many businesses have already begun the process of freeing workers. And according to Mr. Miroshnick, if the introduction of the minimum wage of 237 dollars on 1 July 2003 is not suspended, this process will become massive, or there will be considerable debt from the salary. At the same time, I would like to point out that the State Department is overseeing the enforcement of legislation on the work of its territorial units and is continuously monitoring the implementation of the minimum wage law. In many sectors and sectors of the economy, the 2003 sectoral contract provides for the establishment of minimum tariff rates, wages on enterprises of these industries, equivalent to or exceeding the statutory minimum wage of 185 dollars per month. However, the checks carried out during the January-February year showed that there was a violation of article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wage Standards for 2003 at the minimum wage level of 185 GW per month. In particular, in the Winnitz area, with 177 self-tested subjects, 9 percent of these enterprises did not have a minimum wage of 185 dollars per month. At the same time, only 118 dollars per month of minimum wage was applied to agricultural enterprises. In the Kirovograd region, 34 of the enterprises tested by 61 percent are broken by the minimum wage law. All detected violations of the legislation were followed by State inspectors in response to their authorizations. Regarding business managers, appropriate response measures have been taken to attract them to administrative and criminal responsibility. These issues continue to be controlled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Next, in implementing article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003 the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reports on the following: the issue of pay is closely intertwined with the overall process of market formation of the national economy, primarily tax, monetary, financial, banking and social spheres. Then the question of setting an economic and socially sound minimum wage level with a gradual approximation of its size to a subsistence minimum cannot be considered separately from the overall process of reforming Ukraine's economy. The growth rate of the minimum wage exchange should be an adequate pace of economic growth in recent years and the forecast for the coming years. Based on the long-term forecast achieved, the main projected macroeconomic indicators for economic development, and considering that the introduction of laws that encourage business development and exit from the so-called shadow of a significant economy sector will begin as soon as possible. Since January 1, 2004, the possibility of a step-by-step increase in the minimum wage to a working person’s subsistence minimum has been considered, from the annual rate of approximation to a minimum of 10 percent. It is estimated that in 2004 the minimum wage will not exceed compared to 2003 and will remain at 237 dollars, which is 62 percent of the estimated living minimum for a working person. In 2005, it's going to be 283 bracelets, which is 70 percent of the projected size. In 2006, 336 dollars is 80 percent. In 2007, 394 bracelets are 90 percent. And in 2008 it's going to reach the minimum of living and it's going to be 454 bracelets per month. Calculations have shown that in order to ensure such a step-by-step approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum of living, it is necessary to provide for substantial additional costs annually in all levels of budgets. It is estimated that the overall need for additional budget expenditure of all levels for budget workers will be 5.5 billion dollars in 2005, 6.4 billion dollars in 2006 and 7 billion dollars in 2007 and about 7 billion dollars in 2008. Honourable National Deputies, the corresponding proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers, are addressed as provided for in article 2 of the Ukrainian Law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to support them. As for changes to Ukrainian laws in the minimum wage standards, according to the Ministry of Justice, we have 25 bills. All of them are now being processed and appropriate proposals and draft laws will be sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in due course. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, there are questions. Please sign up. Let's take 10 minutes? Boki, please. The next one is Dry. Find out who signed up. John Boki, next one is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u4	Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, I have a question for you. Well, today in the quasi-cal government, you represent the guiding force of the instigators of the organizer of all our victories. Tell me, please, you've told me such a far-reaching prospect of raising the minimum wage, I mean the perspective and this year that you know sometimes, and you want to grab the head. You represent the reformers' government, you know, but what you're saying is not reform, it's something a little bit different. Well, what kind of economy have we built, at least, I'll tell you that, for example, in the former Soviet district of Kiev, and today in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, the largest taxpayer is, not surprisingly, a large industrial enterprise, but just a newspaper edition of Silesian News. This is, of course, a very interesting economy. And please tell me on what basis you're going to raise your salary if this economy is kept. And what is it, and what is it staggering, regardless of all the nice numbers, and you can see it from everything, is it going to be your drawn salary standards, are they real, and are they going to invest and respond later with cynics and with all our lives? I understand you're yelling out the rules, that's understandable. Please answer only the answer that would bind you to what I have said.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u5	Yes, Your Honor, National Deputy Boki, thank you for your questions. I would like to stress once again that the government has done everything so far to make the minimum wage of 185 dollars. And I've already said that in terms of budget payments, 100 percent have been made, i.e. debt on salary in the budget area is not available, and 185 dollars are actually being paid today in accordance with this law. In the field of economics. You know, we're in control of these processes and we're asking business leaders to raise wages and enforce Ukraine's laws. It's a complicated process because you know, the country's total wage debt is 2 billion 300 million dollars. And that's why we put, first of all, the task of paying off the wages owed to businesses and industries. And this is a question that we consider to be socially important. And it takes into account both the possibilities and the projected macroeconomic calculations. I mean, how are we going to increase gross domestic product, how are we going to introduce inflation processes, and accordingly predict a real approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u6	Dry, please. Next Gunzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u7	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I have a question of a general nature. And the others are specific. So listen carefully to the general question, because I'm going to quote it from one document. "Today's underestimation of labour costs, as well as the lack of social spending, has markedly inhibited the development of the internal market, the dynamics of economic processes. There's virtually no incentive function for wages, and its impact on production development, and scientific and technological progress has been minimised. Economics based on low labour costs do not provide high consumption standards or accumulation processes. It's very important to stimulate the state's accelerated wage growth." It's from the President's letter "European Choice." Please, what does the government do to stimulate accelerated wage growth from the state? And the second question. Confirm for the transcript. Article 2 of the Minimum Wages Act: "The difference in the budget area is covered not by local budgets, but by the State Budget."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u8	Thank you. Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich! The thing is, yes, there is a problem today and we have to admit it. I mean, the wage ratio and in general the gross domestic product structure of the product is the weight of the wage. You know, it's very low in us -- about 8 percent. While in developed countries, the cost of manufacturing is about 25 percent in the structure of self - worth. The government is working now and we are currently reforming the salaries of the workers, as well as the draft decree of the Cabinet of Ministers for the introduction of a single tariff network. So what we're going to do is we're going to take concrete steps to change the wage ratio in the structure of gross domestic product and the cost of production and step up to European standards. With regard to salary, you know that the average wage in 2 months of this year has increased by 20.3 percent in Ukraine. I mean, I think that's a fairly normal indicator. And you know that the inflation rate in January was 101.4 percent. I mean, we have a pre-eminent increase in nominal wage today. And I hope that these trends will be preserved and we will also carry out all the tasks that the President of Ukraine has set before us and the tasks that have set before us the introduction of Ukraine's laws into the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u9	Olga Hinsburg. Next Leukko Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u10	Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, I understand that pleasing the Americans is more important, as yesterday was the question of sending the battalion, and what people are listening to today is all of our Ukraine, our electorates, our people. For whom we are all responsible, the wages for them are the first to stand at the time of their survival. I wanted you to answer two questions. First. Only because everyone listens. Since when will the budget area of doctors, teachers, be given an increase in wages, as stated by our budget regarding the tariff grid? Not only is it lower, but everyone. That's the first question. And what the employees of those enterprises should do, where the managers of enterprises in the minimum wage include night work, unscheduled work, simple work, and so forth. That's all you do, for example, is work as a guard. You have a change -- day, night, and so on, and it's all in the minimum wage. What should be done with such leaders?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u11	Thank you. I'll start with a second question. The thing is, you know, in sectoral agreements and collective agreements, the size of the first is set. First rate salary, post salary. And the tests that showed and these figures I said that 77.7 percent of businesses actually set it to 185 dollars. These issues are addressed in the negotiations by professional associations and representatives of owners. Now we're just going to need to review those collective agreements that don't provide for what you said, until we've established at the level of the law of the official salary of the first level of the single tariff grid at 185 dollars and we'll work and, I think we're going to introduce. As far as the budget is concerned. You know, there's a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers for the introduction of a single tariff network in the second quarter of the current year, which is now under the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, that the first tariff level of a single tariff grid is going to be equal to the minimum wage. This law is now on second reading in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's amending the Ukrainian Act on Pay for Work, and it provides for all of these things in the second quarter of this year, and this is provided for by the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[on the establishment of an hourly minimum wage]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u12	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u13	Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko faction, Leukko Lukyanenko You know, I'd like to get an answer for these things. You say. Melnik, sit down! Melnik, sit down because you can't see the reporter. You're saying that we now have about 8 percent of the cost of production, and you're saying that this percentage is going to increase. This is one line of development. Second line of development. You said that right now we have a wage of 185, then at the end of, well, from the second half of the year it's going to be 237, then it's going to go up. As far as I know, when the economy develops normally, there is an increase in wages that depends on the increase in productivity. To what extent does this relate to us, and how much, say, do you have in mind the level of productivity of our work, in industry, for example, in various fields? This is one side of the question and I'd like to move on to the other. The second question is this. You're talking about filling up our budget, well, obviously by increasing productivity, by the way, there, improving our tax system, but there's another area that I'm very interested in. What does the government think to do to reduce the shadow economy, because it's obviously more than our budget right now? What are you going to do in this direction, and how do you, if you're going to spread it over years or months, how do you think you're going to do it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u14	Thank you, Your Honor, National Deputy Lukyanenko. And I'll answer that question. The point is, yes, there are several stages and this is a complex program of restoring the normal ratio and the heavy weight of wages in the cost of production. Yes, it's primarily the productivity of the work. But let us consider the experiences of other countries, such as Sweden. In Sweden, at the beginning, at a transitional point, the economy was increasing in a certain way, i.e. the government was tasking and proving, and this was done in a strong way. The second question is the output of the economy from the shadow. You know, today, if you take a round of money, we have about 50 percent of the wages paid in envelopes. And we're working on this right now, it's also a complex program, we're going a couple of ways. First what? We now have a personalized citizen account in accordance with the pension insurance laws. So we're a citizen who works in employment, we're making an ally, and today he's going to control the salary payments, because that's what he's going to get when he retires. And if he gets paid in an envelope, he's the first one to go to the employer and say, "Honor, I thank you for your salary, but you have to officially pay me the pension fund so that when I retire, I can get a decent pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u15	Victor Turmanov, faction of "Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u16	I'd like to give the floor to the Colonies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u17	Colonies, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u18	56 constituency, Colonies. Mikhail Nikolayevich, today's conversation reminds us of the conversation of the two deaf: we ask you some questions and you tell us some theory. In practice, everything you say does not really exist on the ground. There is no increase in the wages of the budgeters you speak of. And the letter of Azar which was sent, and yours, is not fulfilled in the field. We have to go to the county. What can we tell people? We can't tell them what you're telling us what's going to happen in 2005, in 2006. What is being done on the ground today, and how does the Cabinet of Ministers control this situation? Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u19	Thank you. I am speaking today on a daily basis on the introduction of the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003. And that's why I'm going to report back to you in accordance with the order of the day: today, in the budget area, 185 dollars of minimum wage are paid. And today, we have 100 percent of our budget sector funded. We don't have a debt on salary in the budget area today. That setting the ratio, restoring them. So, according to the Cabinet of Ministers' decree, we're going to introduce this in the second quarter. Because there's still a question to be settled. For example, today, educated people, they're against setting up a single tariff grid, they're asking us to do the 57th article of the Ukrainian Education Act. So these questions, I think, will have to be settled with Mr. People's Deputy Nikolaynko and with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We cannot today do what we do not agree with the Supreme Council of Ukraine or make appropriate changes to Ukraine’s legislation. The government is now coming out of the real possibilities and the real Government Budget Act 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u20	Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, Mikola Mikolayovich. Nikolainka, a replica, please, Stanislaw Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u21	I'm booked for the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u22	And you're going to be saying a line? Let's move on to the discussion. Please indicate on the table the name of the national MPs who signed up for the speech and discussion. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, prepare Yuri Solomatin. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u23	Dear National Deputies! The problem of minimum wage for us in this room has never existed, is not and will not be a goal. It is important to us in terms of reviewing the state's implementation, the state's organs of social policy in new economic conditions. It is at this point of view that we can and should evaluate the work of the government in improving the pay system. It is here, in the pay of work, that the fundamental sphere of any society, the sphere of manufacturing and labour relations, the improvement of the pay system should be one of the main pillars of the legislative activities of the Supreme Council. Because as Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy, I find it unacceptable to consider reforming pay, raising the income of the population in the so-called "short procedure". This is unacceptable, for reducing the procedure, haste leads to shortness of speech and possible errors and errors. And there's a big mistake here. In addition to social tension, there are possible consequences, severe consequences for our internal market. I did not accidentally quote the address "European Choice" of President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine. Regrettably, the Supreme Council has the most effective incentive for the government to address the issue of pay reform only through the establishment of a state standard, a minimum wage. I very much ask the government officials of all levels who are here to listen to us, not to humiliate or offend the national deputies of Ukraine. Don't make enemies in this room, because in the policy of making enemies, it's completely insane. In the media, in numerous comments, Ukrainian national MPs are accused of populism, incomprehensibleness, shortsightedness. Please tell the equations, the balance sheet in the budget area. It's the minimum wage, isn't it? That some bum doesn't want the employer to pay his salary according to the information to pay his taxes, and then in the envelope. So it's our fault that he intends to shorten people? And before that, where do you get the money? The printing press may need to be turned on. That's not what this is about. It's about putting an end to our country's cheap labour model, which some reformers thought in the mid-1990s was going to help increase the investment attractiveness of our industry, and it led to labour emigration. I'm asking you all. Why the Ukrainian, their 7 million abroad, feels comfortable in terms of wages, but not with us, but with Ukraine. They've gone beyond what's worse. They've gone out the best. We need to get the government to lower the cost of energy, and the complex energy saving program remains on paper, the efforts of intermediaries. Putting order on the energy market, lowering the cost of paying taxes, and getting loans, bank loans optimize the size of depreciation deductions. In short, I think so. Only in the sole action of the Supreme Council and the government can real reform the pay system. Without such unity there will be no high pensions, no social benefits, no growth in prosperity, no real implementation of a number of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u24	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Get ready, Niklaenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u25	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Kyiv region Honorary colleagues, the minister of social policy and work have very interesting figures indicating the ratio between minimum and average world wages of 30 to 60 percent, including in the SND about 9 percent, in Belarus 20 percent, and in Ukraine even 46 percent. It's like we're okay in Ukraine. But Mikhailo Mikolaiovich got a little tricky because he didn't name or compare the average wage in these countries. And in Ukraine, we have an average wage and an average pension size of 2 or more times less than in Russia and Belarus. So why are we playing with these wicked numbers? And the main thing is that we have to take care first of all to raise the average wage level and, above all, the minimum wage level. Let's take the "Work Capital" to hand, there's a lot of reports about the need for specialists, different managers, different brokers. And that's where the salary starts with even $500,000 or more. Why there is such a huge social divide in our country and between the minimum wage and the maximum wage. And all of this happened just because they went down the path of so-called market transformations, that we didn't keep it under control, and we gave the opportunity to bite those who are shameless and dishonest. Where can I get the money? Among the ways in which money can be found, I'm going to stress only one is the introduction in our nation of natural resources rent, that's the notion of hearing in neighboring states of the entire world society. Natural resource rent is the difference between the cost of obtaining and using natural resources and their price of selling. Right here, if the state doesn't properly control this process, the left-hand side of the natural resource rent gets into the private pocket. This is where we have to say back to those who have been able to sit on the naphtha pipe, on the natural mines, on the forest, and on other natural resources. So I want to say by joining my previous colleague who was speaking. Not to those who propose to limit the law and the proposals that were made upon the increase in minimum wage. This law must be fully enforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u26	Stanislaw Nikolainko. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u27	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear national MPs, listen up! Nikolainka, a faction of socialists. I'm listening to everything that's going on today, and I'm giving it a big surprise. What are we talking about? I have before me the Ukrainian Act on Minimum Wages, which consists of 12 periods. In the report we talked for 10 minutes, for six minutes now, we've spent talking about the law, and no one's saying anything about the law. The law states: From January 1, 185, from July 1, 237 a month. Article 2th. The monthly cabina is to be paid to the Supreme Council for the approval of additional grants to local wage increases. Third. To be reviewed by the Supreme Council again by March 1st, the proposal for a step - by - step approximation of the minimum wage to the minimum wage. It's like Mikhail Miklaiovich said it in his answers. I'm asking, what really? And why was I one of the initiators to consider this question? At my reception as chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, I had a huge number of representatives of the trade unions. I say, the trade union strikes; the district leaders of the education profession strike, the pre-election strike is announced. And it's going to be done in a week by the main, probably, education community and others. And culture, I think, will support that and that. What? Because after the adoption of this law, there's a letter from Azarov that says, "185 raise and in the first quarter pick up, and in addition, everyone else plus 17.9; in the second half of 237 and 11.9 more fail. The letter has been revoked or is not working. Now what's going on? People don't know what to do. What's going on? Budget institutions shorten government records, convert people to part of the rate, and raise minimum wage. The poor tech got 185; for using chlorine, he's going to get 202. School principal 213. The government says it's going to go up in 2 blocks, which is July 1. How, then, can we agree? We need to bring it in now. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, which I believe is more. You will see how interested the Committee on Budgets is in this matter as an interest in the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Why they did not immediately join the government in agreeing on what to do at this time. That's what I'm suggesting. 185, we've confirmed it, and we've confirmed that the change costs are going to change the intertariff ratios so that the teacher after the college gets at least 250 or 300 bracelets, and the expert gets to the minimum housing there 350. If we don't do this in April of the first session, I'm saying that we're to a greater extent to blame than even the government. The government just doesn't want to do the law, and we don't force it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u28	Vladimir Yavorowski. Get ready for Mike. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky oblasts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". I think that millions of people have now literally fallen to the speakers, because today we are discussing the topic that practically passes through every family, through every house, through every human soul -- what will be the wages for us Ukrainians who today are so far behind from the world that they don't even have to say. And those who listen to us today, and probably this discussion will end, they will think it's either they're watching it or they're listening to the program, "Good night, kids!"or watching the theater of absurdity. People talk about some minimum wage, but in Ukraine virtually nothing changes. You know, there are times when we feel that we have a beautiful power in Ukraine, but the people have fallen apart from the people, but the people have not come, so they would change the people, and everything would immediately be in place. Remember, we take this pitiful budget, we take it literally in the last breath, on the autopilot. It's like they taped it, put it in a pile. The President's decree is that we should raise the minimum wage. What couldn't we have done before we had just planned the budget and now we don't have to rewrite the budget? This is where Nikolaynka, my colleague, has been saying, this is terrible things, I've been seeing school principals in my constituency, and they're saying, what have you done? We don't mind raising the technicians' minimum wage to the cleaners up to 185 bucks, but today the difference between a teacher and a technician is 15-20 bucks. What have we led to? And we have the price of the most important product -- the labor force today is completely absurd. Because, Mr. Papieve, Minister, I understand you're a fresh man who's come, you're just gonna butter something up, but let's do something and act eventually. Well, it's not possible that you, you're telling me that 454 bracelets are going to be in 2005. So think about who of these elderly people will survive until then to wait for this minimum wage? Because I'd like to, I understand, it's easier for you to give in today's government and so forth, but you're the minister, you represent the political power of the Social Democrats who rule the country today, and you're responsible for it. So at least come out here and tell me what's going to happen next, so people know clearly that they don't lie to them anymore. Because I am absolutely convinced that the information that we have received today only confirms one thing: no one in our government is seriously addressing this issue today. I don't know, maybe the information will just offer us to get to know each other. Well, let's get to know each other and live as long as we've lived before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u30	The People's Deputies, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. Prepare Vernigori.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u31	I would very much like to be listened to, especially by those professional representatives present. And I'm going to say to Karmazin, listen, people of Ukraine. I'm saying this for the first time, but I can tell you that the more we talk about minimum wage here, the more we get the Supreme Council to talk about this wage every day, the worse it's going to be for our people. Why? It's propaganda, when it's called some number and they say, reach that number. We, look, we're not looking at any economic law, we haven't looked at the tax law today, we haven't made any conditions for the government to be able to reach any level today. We're talking about the average minimum wage. I can do it today, let those who, if we raise wages today as requested by the unions today, at the end of the year, you're going to figure out that this salary is going to be lower than the wages that were paid today. Because never in life has wages been defined by any, not by any indicator other than manufacturing and labour productivity, productivity, that was the main thing. And I'm asking you all today, I've paid for my whole life, I've been dragged by the unions, more and more. I haven't met in 30 years when I was able to do more than what allowed production to be done. Really, bad life! A Real Low Wage! But let's get out of another conversation -- not the popullian statements on this salary, but let's sit down with the Cabinet of Ministers once, get together some kind of commission -- the government, the Supreme Council, the commission, sit down and calculate that this minimum wage could be on the terms of those, that's it. We're helping them with the legislative data on this condition, they're doing it on their own. I'm asking you to understand that. Well, it's time to end this conversation, to spend so much time in vain. There will be no results until the Supreme Council and the Council of Ministers sit down and say, "Behold, with all our capabilities there will be such wages." I'm asking you to listen to this. And this is the request of all business executives today. You see how much wages have not been paid today. You think they're bad people? I wanted to put one of you in there and say, "Now give me another 237." And what would become of you? All of it. I'm not insulting anyone, I've made my point, and I think it's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u32	Leonid Vernigore, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Michael Mikolaiovich, we today, members of the Committee of Social Policy and Labor, have been invited to participate in an expanded, I think, Minpraci College, where the agenda will be on government cooperation, ministry with the Supreme Council. This is today's consideration of the minimum wage and should be the starting point for cooperation between the Supreme Council, the Committee, the Ministry and the Cabinet of Ministers, well, and the unions that you mentioned here very often. Which turns out to be really a collaboration. If you had informed us correctly, if the Ministry of Social Policy and Work were to be involved in the politics of work, then social policy, including wages, would probably not be at all in the gap you give us. What do I have to say? You're scaring the Supreme Council and all the people of Ukraine in every speech, that in order to raise their wages by at least half a living minimum, you'll have to find seven mythical billions of dollars, even though you'll have to take them out of that Count Monte Cristo. Well, first of all, it's not seven billion, it's two billion. But why don't you say that these two billion are designed to increase, not from someone giving them to us, and this is about developing or increasing GDP, like Minpraci should do it in the first place. And so there's absolutely no search here, and there's real money, but there's got to be laws on it. Secondly, why aren't we saying that we're not finally implementing the minimum wage law? I'm asking you for the third time: how can you go, step up to the minimum? I understand how you can go from minimum to safety, but I can't understand how you can go to the minimum that you don't have a physiological biological existence. The point is that we need to understand today that if there is no minimum wage at the standard level, we don't have the fullness of the social funds that are today the only social guarantor in our state under the Constitution. And what's more, these funds are constantly falling, and you're limiting the use of these funds when it's given to our disadvantaged. So I'm addressing you, so let's start our collaboration with what the Ministry of Labour will finally propose, not a step-by-step approach to the minimum standard of living, and we won't be surprised why we're allowing a minimum of 185 in the budget area today, not in production. So where do you get the 185 for the budget. So I'm asking you to start our partnership.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u34	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u35	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. The increase in wages ultimately depends on the increase in productivity. I agree with that. But let's see what really happened in the economic and social spheres of Ukraine. For the past 10 years, there has been a limited, restrictive policy in Ukraine. Everything was held back. They held back the increase in pensions, they held back the increase in wages, they only let go of prices. And the ratio was extremely unfavourable. And we are now facing the need to liberalize wage policies. Restrictive deterrence policies have actually resulted in a 7-8 percent loss of wages and self-sustainment. There are virtually no countries in the world where the weight of wages in the value of the product is so low. Wages have virtually lost their economic role as a means of restoring labour and stimulating productivity. If we want productivity to increase, we need to stimulate it by increasing wages. So I'd like to say to the MP, Mike, that there's a dependency on wages on productivity, and there's a reverse dependency on productivity growth on wages. We need to think about it. How we can ensure that the labor force is built up and that we can stimulate productivity growth. And that's the economic role of wage. It doesn't play that role, I repeat. Of course, you can't do that right now. We've come a long way in this direction, in the wrong direction. We have virtually suppressed the platable demand of the population. And this has a very negative impact on the internal market, on GDP growth. In the economy, everything is interconnected, and so we are obliged to step up the wage to the minimum of living. Among other things, in any country of the world, there is no concept of a minimum of living in civilized countries, because the minimum wage is at or above the minimum wage. So you go around the country and ask them what kind of living minimum you have, they don't know that concept. Because they raised the minimum wage to this level. So I think we need to move in step, we have 165 dollars, 185 already have the money, 237 of July 1st, we need to look for the funds to solve this issue. But first of all, I totally agree with those who have focused on this, that the first thing that needs to be done is to shift the cross-tariff ratios towards their growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, since we are running out of time, I ask those who have signed up for one minute. Mikhailo Anatoliyovich Pavlovski, please. One minute, then Grigorovitch one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u37	Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmeljnična I'll ask the minister to pick up a sheet of paper, and I'll ask Minister Papiev to pick up a sheet of paper and write down what to do. Ladies and gentlemen, all we've talked about before is tactical steps, within the given system, how to raise a little bit. And the thing is, we have to change government policies and change in these directions. First. I call you the numbers. The profit per tonne of oil is between $20 and $40, and 1 kilogram of microscheme costs as much as 2.4 kilograms of gold. Do you understand what this is? So write that you need to change the government's orientation to science and technology. That's the first one. The other one. You have to give up the wrong idea of romance from the low-pay market, the freezing of wages, because it's going to bring us down. So the second way is to raise, and here I'm supporting Black, the competitiveness of production. The third way. As it sells in developed countries, it produces. Therefore, it is necessary to remove or order the influence of intermediaries on the market. They live well, not the one who makes them. Well, that's four. It is necessary that the government had been thinking on its own, and without entering the WTO, they took these sectoral rates larger than those countries that have been in the WTO for 10 years. Do you understand what this is? In front of my father in hell. The WTO freezes the state of technology and the level of wages that is today. So, ladies and gentlemen, think about national interests, think for yourself, send foreign counselors home, and you'll be fine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u38	Lila Grigorovitch, please, microphone. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u39	Lila Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I think I'm going to ask our minister back in the same way to take the paper and write down what we don't have to do. Sadly, though, he will not be able to do so, but he will have to hand it over to his political leadership. A lot of people at meetings, in phone calls, in letters say what you've done to us. For your political and political dividends, you are ready to take a decision on paradise into the hall and vote. Let's analyze, I don't want to throw hot heat from one hand to the other -- government to parliament. Nikolainko says more parliament. No, not Parliament, the Banking Authority. Look what we've done. The adoption of a minimum wage is done when one government changes most to the other government of the majority, and the head of the social policy committee changes political orientation, the proscription, and the transition from one political power to another. At that time, we have to put minimum wage into the budget. He asks: "What's on the top, people's interests or some political dividend that they wanted to gain?" This is the first one. Now for the second one. We calculated that if Yushchenka’s hypothetical government had worked until 2004, the 500 bracelets mentioned by the minister of Papiev would certainly have been executed and that was the minimum wage. That would be true, it's just as true as that people got all the payments they didn't get all the time. And finally. Internal gross product dropped from 9.2 to 5.2. He's asking us how we're going to do this. So it's not politics, it's socialization that's the prime order of our minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u40	Thank you. Sergey Doroguntsov. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u41	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to draw the MPs' attention again to the question of the ratio of wages and productivity of work. I'm completely in solidarity with Cherniak. The thing is, in the early 1990s, we had a completely abnormal relationship between wages and productivity. A model was introduced, which was a few times less than the level that was expected to be consistent with the productivity of the work. And now, having one. The base, the requirement that we raise wages step by step after the corresponding increase in productivity is absurd! We have to align these two values first, and then hold on to this pattern. So the government has no right to appeal to this ratio. And finally, I want to say that last year I learned from the deputy's speech that the grain traders received 7 billion dollars at a price difference only on a price-for-sale basis. So why couldn't this money be used to level the wages on the current level of productivity? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u42	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u43	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I thank those who mentioned positive union names, what they demand, and I don't want to call the name of one director who spoke here not to take the line, but I want to tell him, Mr. Director, you were with me in Geneva when the government reported the delay in salary and when one of the speakers said, "Have you got what?" And we said, "A month's pay." So count, today's minimum wage is $30 a month, $1 a day. I want to ask this director how will your people survive? And the second. What are you complaining about? You don't pay, so your factory doesn't work, so people get away from you. I agree with Comrade Drogunz and others, let's review the level of pay and not as the honourable minister says we have a minimum today, you see, 50 percent of the average. What's the middle one, Mr. Minister? Today, the average wage is 70 percent of the minimum wage when the minimum wage is at a minimum. So where do we run people? First of all, we need to review the overall level of pay. Secondly, raise the minimum wage per employee. And thirdly, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we must enforce the law. 237 is part of the minimum of living. And where to find the money, let the government think. Instead of taking money for the land of children who will rest, he will find it in other pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u44	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u45	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for giving me that word. Dear fellow MPs, and I'm addressing my distinguished colleagues from the government, I think in this regard we're awfully populist about all things. Well, we know we can't eat more than he did, but we're always talking about how to distribute the money to get it to raise the wages. Right, you have to increase, but you have to start manufacturing. That's what the government should be doing. Of course, production will not develop quickly, but it is only on this path that the internal gross product can be increased and this way we can create normal conditions for the lives of our people. However, the tax system can increase productivity. Our people were taught, turned away from their jobs when they established such taxes, when man can no longer earn bread and salt for himself, working very hard. The problem. There is, of course, a way that you can pick up very quickly, let's say a salary, is to get the economy out of the shadows. We have 50 billion budgets, and maybe 50 in the shade. This part of the money can be converted into an administrative way to a salary and a budget in general. Yes, you removed Yushchenka from office for wanting to take away 934 aid companies. This government can take away the benefits of those businesses and these costs will return to the budget and you can quickly do so. This is a temporary step, and, of course, only the productivity of the work will ensure the growth of gross domestic product and wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are finalizing the information of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Minimum Wages for 2003." I think you're going to support me in this lineup, Mr. People's Honourable Deputies. We need to assign budget and social policy committees to the next plenary meeting to work out concrete proposals and a specific draft decision on this issue, which is to be a task, and even better to understand the problem of inter-tariff ratios -- how it will be resolved and how much money is needed to do so. I don't think we can limit ourselves to taking information to knowledge. It seems like we're adapting our laws to developments, not to situations, we're making decisions that determine the development of processes in Ukraine. I think we should break this practice. And I would like to conclude by saying one more point. This is very good, but we have the opportunity to find out what is happening when we go to Geneva. I think we should first find out what is going on in our home. The replica. National MP, Mother, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u47	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a request to think about a joint such group of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers on the subject of this minimum wage. The question is very difficult, it's a question of all politics. And then we split it up again, and the time comes again, and we're not going to solve anything again. Maybe make a special commission - let him work on it. And we'll find a solution to the normal question. Well, this is today we've split up into two camps, and we have to make it one group that works and watches, and we've found a way out of this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u48	That's a good offer, but on one condition, one minute, I'll tell you. Dear colleagues, we've created a lot of working groups. We've created a task force on the budget, but it doesn't work by large. That's why we need to. so that the committees can take on their direct responsibilities and make specific proposals for us to make the right decision. And what's more, I've been personally asking the government to make the calculations, 185, that's what it takes. 185 -- we're bringing the ratio rate into line. What's the picture going to be? 237. What's the picture going to be? We bring into line the inter-tariff relationship. What's the picture going to be? What kind of predictions? What does it take? What decisions should we make? Unfortunately, there is nothing but conversation. We need to make decisions. Please, Ivan Plush.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u49	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I fully support what the Chairman has just said, but I think. Vitaly Ivanovich Miko offered to create a group that would help directors like Vitaly Ivanovich to figure out his own production and pay people a decent salary. I think it's time for such a group to set up a group to help such directors, or to give others the opportunity to organize production and pay people a decent salary, or not to interfere.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u50	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our consideration of the matter. A draft law amending some of Ukraine's tax laws on the conditions for the customs treatment of goods is being announced for consideration. Reporter is Deputy Secretary of State of the Ministry of Economics and Euro-Integration of Ludmila Musin. Please. Ah, a lineup, National MP, Mother. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u51	I want to answer to the Head of the Supreme Council at a time when the entire industry of Ukraine, the managers of enterprises and they were offering, how to save, not to ruin Ukraine's industry. At that time, the Head of the Supreme Council did not know what to do or did not listen to us, and today he recommends. He doesn't know what he's doing anymore. It's today. Excuse me. So we recommend to the director who has spent these ten years today, it's all the same as giving the lab to the professor advice. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u52	I don't understand. Whose address is this? Because I am. All right, dear fellows, everyone understood what they were trying to understand. Please, please, very briefly. The following is suggested: Within five minutes, if there are questions within five minutes. The same is true for the co-reporter and 10 minutes for discussion. It's a profile committee proposal. No objections? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u53	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! This law provides for the provision of benefits for the import of equipment and equipment under only nine projects implemented at the expense of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. And only those projects that have been ratified by the Supreme Council for the years 1997-2000 and are still in a state of implementation. The point is that according to the standard terms of the World Bank, the European Bank. Bank loans cannot be used to pay any taxes in any country. And so in September 1999, a joint order from Minfin and the State Service was adopted confirming the provision of tax benefits for the import of equipment under these projects. At the same time, in 2000, the Ukrainian Act on the Elimination of Discrimination in Taxation of Entrepreneurship Subjects created with the Use of Property and the Costs of Domestic Origin was adopted. And as a result, the previous order was canceled. And these projects are stalled. While looking at the law, it says that enterprises that have received loans from international financial organizations under State guarantees pay taxes and congregations in order to take effect before the law becomes effective. At the same time, there was such a conflict that if it did not, there was no legal field now available for these nine projects. And that's why the Ministry of Economics is introducing this bill. What I want to do here is some calculations. So the total amount of benefits that would have to be paid for the unsettled amount of money, because these projects are already being implemented, is 59 million dollars and 26 million euros. It's the amount of import duty and VAT that should be paid either by the State Budget, and it doesn't have those costs, or by the project contractor. But the cost of these projects was not available because they were adopted earlier and ratified by the year 2000. And so the question is, who's going to pay that amount? There are two possible consequences. Or these projects are cancelled, and then Ukraine has to pay fines for failing to implement international agreements, terms of international agreements. These sanctions, we counted, the Ministry of Finance gave us these numbers. Sanctions may be. $131 million, 52 million euros, interest on a loan of 5.5 percent of a one - time commission fee. So what happens is that the return from the budget is going to be twice as much as it would now have to pay these costs, taxes. Option two. If you don't break these contracts and still make them pay, you put this amount of taxes on a direct contractor. He didn't have it in his wallets. So it has to automatically raise the tariff, or find other ways. We have the calculations that gave us Kyivenergo. For example, under the project "Rehabilitation and Expansion of Central Heating of Kiev." According to their calculations, if they pay VAT and customs, they have to increase tariff and thermal energy by 14.5 percent. In Zaporozhye, a project of the Investment and Development Programme for Water Supply and Cleaning in Zaporozhye is being implemented. In this case, water tariffs will increase by 30 percent and 100 percent. And if you cancel these contracts in general, there's nothing you can do about the heat supply. And there's a possible ecological disaster in the region. Then the State Budget will have to pay even more. There's a third project, a project for the reconstruction of the Starobeshesian TEZ. There, by the way, they were paying taxes for the increase in electricity tariffs by 14 percent and 7 percent, but they don't have any more money to pay for it. So there's going to be an increase in tariffs, so that's social issues. In view of the potential budget losses that will exceed these virtual revenues, the Ministry of Economics proposes to support the bill. And I also want to say that on March 4 and 5, this issue was discussed at the Committee on Finance and Banking, March 5, at the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, and it got positive conclusions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u54	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Put on the board a list of the names of the national MPs who are enrolled. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u55	Dear reporter! I'd like to go first, I understand, you're a little bit worried, you're reporting, but I want you to explain to both the radio audiences and the national MPs here again. The government supports this bill. Why does he support us? Why in this situation did you talk about budget failure if this bill, on the other hand, makes it possible not to pay import duties on goods that go here on the International Monetary Fund, the Bank of Reconstruction and Development? I mean, is the estimated income from this and the cost, and is there a positive balance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u56	Most of these projects, there are nine of them, these are projects that address housing and water supply, water treatment, and the development of railways. So these projects have such a clear social orientation and also an improvement in infrastructure in the regions. And that's why they were supported by the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development simply because we don't have the funds in the local budgets. That's what I'm talking about. And that's why they were exempt from taxes when imported into Ukraine. Not everything, but just importing equipment, is a list of this equipment that has to be imported on each project. They will be subject to tender procedures. So the tender is defined as who's going to supply this equipment. The question is to release the import of this equipment from taxes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u57	National MP Tsushko, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u58	Thank you. Tsusko, Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter! Please state the price of our allowances for the country's budget. That's the first question. And second. You are aware, as the Ministry of Economy, that one of the main obstacles to the development of Ukraine's economy is now free economic zones, free trade treaties and these are yours, which you offer to release benefits are the 10 holes in Ukraine's economy. Do you agree with that, Ministry of the Economy? I understand that now you're patching up what your predecessors didn't do that you replaced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u59	I understand it's 10 holes, but it's only in the sense that we don't know what's coming in and if something too expensive is being imported that doesn't apply to these projects. If this equipment is really needed here and if it is controlled according to the list, it will no longer be a black hole. The black hole in the free zones is if you import some Bush legs, for example, or something else that is in Ukraine. I mean, the main thing is import control. So, the grant of the aid to these projects is calculated that for the unsettled amount of money, it would have to pay the import duty and the value added tax for $59. million and 26 million euros. But the question is. Since this was not foreseen in the funds, it is necessary to pay the contractor. So he raises the tariff on electricity and heat and then he pays quietly. But the tariff will be higher for the population. That's the only thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u60	Yes, National Deputy Slabenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u61	Sergei Slabenko, 19th constituency. Volinsky area. I have a question. Don't you think that every time we ask to settle the issue of the collection of customs, we go back to what the legislation has determined to provide such benefits? Today seems to have changed legislation, so we need to regulate it. You and I understand that the law has no reverse power. As I believe there may have been a way out of this situation, it is to provide appropriate clarifications to the State Customs Committee, which should have done its work by looking at the legislative acts that exist, and fully taking them into account the requirements of the Constitution, in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution. Because at least today the same situation is with free economic zones that the change in the legislative regime does not have a retroactive effect on them. What are we going to have to make changes to the laws every time to explain that the law has no reverse power? Thank you. I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u62	Well, it turns out that there's an explanation to be made, because we still need an explanation, although it's clear that these nine projects were ratified by the Supreme Council, that is, international agreements. And according to international agreements, the World Bank is fulfilling its commitments, Ukraine. It turns out that if Ukraine did not now execute them, there is simply a question: What should we do with these treaties? Should they be annulled? Then we have to pay fines. And if you don't cancel, you have to raise tariffs, for example, on heat and water supply. This is the price of this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u63	Yes, thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u64	Nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u65	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u66	Nine and they are all prescribed in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u67	Yes, Vasil Petrovich Cuzko is invited to report, the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u68	So first of all, I want our, well, I'm reporting on behalf of the committee, but I want our government to be defined as 9 or 10 because the bill that I'm holding in hand, the profile committee we're still not getting through is 9 or 10. I've got it in my hands, I think it's my fingers, it's my 10th project. You'll find a bill has been filed under the Chinese signature. I've got 10 fingers, so it's 10 toes. Can you imagine? Then let's move on. Yes, our committee supported the bill. But, honourable Members, I wish to inform you that the current composition of the Government is not to blame, but when these treaties were concluded, it was not taken into account that taxes would have to be paid in the country's budget. And at the insistence of the members of the committee, we asked that you give us a list of the equipment that will be shipped to Ukraine under these treaties. Believe that 80 per cent of this list can be produced in Ukraine. What is the matter, and what is the problem? Therefore, our committee invited the Supreme Council to adopt this bill on first reading and then on second reading, to consider it, to support it, because we need to look for a way out of the situation, but the list should be approved as part of the bill so that group 1-24 does not import it, I don't know, excise goods and so on. And the next. I want the people's deputies to think that, for example, we help, we give relief, let's say, one of the projects is Kiev's 200 million-dollar warmth, Zaporozhye's 50-million-dollar water channel. At the same time, these utilities are already preparing for privatization. Thus, respected colleagues, if we are to give money to future owners from the budget, we must act consciously and know that we are doing so. The economic situation, what the government is reporting, is that the discrepancy in the treaties with the EBRD is, of course, foolish to give up this project and lose that money. But inside of us, we need to deal with this issue, because it comes to us that we are now budgeted, through government guarantees and budget benefits, so to speak, we are updating these facilities, and in a year we will learn that they are privatized by individuals or others of our respected State. This is in principle the problem of the bill. I invite you to support the Committee's decision to adopt it on first reading and second reading, subject to the approval of the list. Such precedents of the deputies of past calls know, we have done, we have approved a list of facilities, a list of equipment that has been shipped. And it is no big deal that the Customs knows that what is not done in Ukraine is exempt from VAT, duty and other taxes. That is, we are giving benefits to those goods that are not produced in Ukraine. If they are conducted in Ukraine, I recommend that our ministry, the government negotiate with the Bank for Reconstruction and Development and show. That Ukraine is not as bad or more expensive as it is to make such equipment and buy our money for that money, for which Ukraine will still be returning it to the bank because it is a loan. It's not a grant. Thank you. I've finished my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the co-conspirator? Please sign up. Yeah, put a name list on the board. Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u70	Thank you very much. Your Honor, in your statement, have you actually revealed the answer to the question that I wanted to ask, what is the status of these enterprises today? And should they soon be privatized? You said it'd probably be like that. But I'd like to ask you why, if we don't make a positive decision, let this equipment be taxed, or if we make a positive decision, why would that part of the amount that should go to the government budget in the form of taxation on the equipment that they're carrying? Consider it as a state-owned investment in those enterprises. which will then be privatized, recorded in debt to the State Budget, making such a decision, and then have them pay the State Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u71	I agree with you 100 per cent economically, you can lend it as a budget loan to them, you can restructure implementation after the project has been implemented, and they can pay it in the budget after three or five years. And then let them privatize and do what they want. It is a very good proposal, so once again, it is clear that the Committee has rightly supported the first reading, and secondly, your amendment can be voted on and taken into account. That's exactly what I'm gonna do. That's a great offer. I'll take a hundred percent. I think the government should support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u72	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, dear reporter, I would like to say that we must support this bill and support it with great pleasure because it will indeed bring order in such an important area. We have to return the money to stimulate the production of goods abroad. But I have a question in the following order, don't you think that this practice of defining a specific list of goods should be introduced by enacting laws on free economic zones, areas of priority development. Today, by creating appropriate regimes for them, and this is good, we are creating enormous difficulties in sustaining or maintaining the competitiveness of our manufacturers. And that's what we see with you in the 1-24 product group. Do you not think that we should introduce this into the practice of lawmaking?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u74	Ekaterina Timofeevna, I'm willing to draft a short bill like this, and you sign it, then all the free economic zones, all the tech parks, all of these projects are eligible only if you use domestic equipment. And a list of only what we need that we don't have. And if we do that, I am prepared to adopt such a bill, and then we will stimulate the Ukrainian economy. And so we stimulate, the EBRD stimulates the European projects. What's not clear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u75	Basil Bartkov, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u76	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Paul Žebrovski, and, more importantly, he's the noun today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u77	Please, Paul Zebrowsky. In order for us to declare it, we obviously need the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u78	Vasil Petrovich, don't you think that today, well, you know, today we need to update, in fact, all the basic production tools in Ukraine. We are, therefore, preparing for the WTO, and today we are uncompetitive enough to produce our products. Are you not counting on the need to accept a list of, say, equipment that is not being produced in Ukraine today as essential means and to adopt a specific law in order to ensure that the equipment used to upgrade production is not subject to VAT or customs in order to prepare us for entry into the WTO?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u79	Thank you, Pavel Ivanovich. First of all, congratulations on your birthday. I wish you health. Second of all, I'm in favour of your proposal. Everything we do not have, but subject to the amendment made by the Chubarov colleague. Whatever you do, please drive, but this benefit is recorded as a budget loan, and as this enterprise begins to profit, it returns money to the budget. No questions asked. Then we stimulate production, jobs, transportation really for innovations what is not being done. And secure the future of the budget. And if we give, and we all forget how we give all the benefits and forget, we're already losing billions, we're already in a situation where we have to stop everything that's right and start what's going on. That's why I support it. Again, I refer to second reading, please, that may not be the subject of this law, but it may be a new bill in which we can take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u80	Thank you. Time's up. Please sit down, Vasil Petrovich. Let's move on to the discussion. Put on the board a list of the names of the national deputies who have signed up for the discussion. Ten minutes as we agreed. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin Get ready, nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'm asked, what happened that night? During the night, a war continued that Ukraine joined yesterday through the introduction of troops into Kuwait, through the sanctioning of troops into Kuwait, the warring party. That's what happened in the night. Sadly, war continued. Although we made a wise decision yesterday, we asked questions about the withdrawal of troops. Thus we have been shown to be a European state, even though we have some papayas. So this is about European banks for reconstruction and development, and it's about whether we need this law that's now reported by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the law today will have to be passed, unfortunately. I'm saying this, unfortunately, because in any of the civilized countries, there probably wouldn't be such a question that we still have to get the money. And I looked at all the loans and the Starobeshew TEZ project, and the extended centralized supply project of Kiev, and so on. And then what does it work for? One project, one project, one project, in a large account of the privatized skyscrapers. So I would like to write on the second question that the objects that are now being targeted by these funds that are not coming into the budget, and I would like Tsuko to make notes that these objects are not included in privatization. And that'll be fair. If we look at it, we've been given the losses that Ukraine can bear. It's just catastrophic losses, it's about $200 million we can lose in a flat place. It is clear that such agreements cannot continue to be concluded, but the adoption of the bill will ensure the efficient use of these funds to Ukraine, because they will be achieved, firstly, goals, and secondly, those projects will be implemented under these 10 agreements, and we will avoid these fines if we do not exempt from taxation, so let's say that Starobesovska will fail and so on, we do not know how it will develop. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you and I have adopted a very good Law in 2000 to eliminate discrimination in the taxation of business entities created by the use of property and the cost of domestic origin. We need to use this law. But these covenants were concluded with him. So we have no way out of this, as we should in the first reading. But the warnings are all recorded and not privatized, and the commission of the Privatization Commission, and the Maintenance Fund, too, to give an order on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u82	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, there is the idea that all benefits are holes in the budget, and that all benefits are bad. In general, this can be accepted, but only generally. There are innovation benefits and investment benefits that give a powerful boost to economic growth. And if we're talking about benefits, it's about benefits, innovation and investment. There is a world experience, including Japan. Japan, literally, for 10 years, even more, has introduced incentives for innovation, investment, and vocational education. And we know very well what the economic take-off was in Japan. So I suggest we unmask the myth of the harm of any benefits. There are exceptions, and there are possible selective benefits at any given time in a particular situation in the economy, so you have to stick it to where the effect is. It's kind of needle therapy in the economy. Now it's about a specific bill. I support the proposal to vote for him in the first reading, he deserves support, conceptually, at least. These are nine or ten investment projects, aids for the import of equipment and equipment that could virtually not go to Ukraine without it. There's no money for this company, there's no money in the budget, we're given international financial structures practically this loan, and it would be foolish to give it up. So, of course, that's what we have to do. But there's a problem that we're talking about here, and I also want to focus on that. You can't create a hole that would allow any equipment to be imported into Ukraine again on extended terms. So we really need to add to this bill a list of equipment, equipment that's going to go here. I have a question about the term "budget loan," which was mentioned here. I think it's more accurate than the tax credit, what Chubarov said, but here we have to think about how this could be done. Well, of course you have to ask questions about sanctions, about responsibility in general, because there are potential abuses. We know in practice that abuses are possible, so we need to think about how to write a mechanism of responsibility in the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u84	Andrew Schlell. The next Jebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u85	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly I would like, first of all, to stop on the bill itself, on its text. It's all very well written in the text. Here, according to the project, in the event of a breach of the requirement for the purpose of civil relief from payment of import duties, the taxpayer must pay the import duty in accordance with the established legislation. The bill provides for tax exemption right here for the added cost of a certain round of operations that are carried out to ensure the implementation of the above-mentioned projects between Ukraine and the IMF and the EBRD. And the common thing is, in principle, the positive charge of this bill. Clearly, nine projects, nine, are needed by the international organizations of Ukraine to carry out these 9 operations. But for some reason, these steps are always due to customs benefits. We give customs benefits under different circumstances, under different circumstances, under different conditions, but we rarely think that any benefit is a moment that relaxes, a moment that destroys, destroys the domestic economy. It's hard to discuss the need for these bills here because you have chosen the directions that carry the social charge. I mean, there are projects to improve thermal power plants, aquifers and so on. But I would like us to clearly distinguish benefits from benefits and problems in this situation. So when it says here that according to the project in case of a breach of target requirements, who will control the breach of target use requirements? Customs on the border told him it was coming. The bill is kind of accepted by this number by the Supreme Council, it skips. Who's going to run a clear expertise? This is not quite clear in the bill. So when we can speak, only the first reading is unique. And this first reading should be adopted, but the second one is very carefully completed, and I would say, even a percentage of the 60 revised bill, because the main regulatory functions of the bill are not clearly defined, it has to be regulated, not just allowed. And this regulatory factor right here is written down enough qualms, so I think that the government, for its part, will offer clear mechanisms and national MPs will offer clear mechanisms to monitor compliance with this bill so that it will not be in the form of goods that go into good and useful smuggling, as is very often the case. And it's a shame that, of course, I'm not being listened to by a government representative, but I'm still asking her to take note of the need for the bill to clearly regulate the punishment of those who will import with clear sanctions, which will be imported in the form of the products that are necessary for these projects, smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u86	Paul Zebravsky. There's nothing to celebrate. He's a executioner. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u87	Of course, your colleagues, the problem raised in the report by the Deputy Secretary of State of Mineconomy, Mrs. Ludmila Musiniy, and in the co-report of our colleague Tsushka Vasil Petrovich, is that we must resolve and, apart from the arguments here mentioned for the adoption of this bill, I would like to quote another. In the past year, more than 300,000 tons of sugar have been imported into Ukraine with the loss of customs duties. And that's what this leads to. Instead of celebrating the next year's anniversary -- 180 years of our nation's sugar industry -- because the first Ukrainian sugar plant was working in the village of Trieste in Cherchishka in 1824, we're probably going to start a passing procedure, because, compare yourself. It was 192 factories, 130 seed farms, more than 10 machinery factories, scientific research institutes, and so on. The number of people working in the beetroot complex was over 1.5 million, and the seedlings of sugar beet were 1.6 million hectares. This is one of the largest areas in the world, like the production of sugar, over 5 million tons. The budget of all levels amounted to over 1 billion dollars. For my native Winnitsk district as a sugar Donbas, that's up to 100,000 workers, that's the fourth part of the gross product, every family in the former Soviet Union has eaten the fruit of vinyl sugar. In 2003, we have half as many crops, we produce 400 tons of sugar, which is only enough to provide internal needs. Jobs decreased by 300,000. 21 factories are virtually dismantled. And one of the main factors of such negative dynamics is the flaws in the bill and the import of cane sugar into Ukraine. Between 1998 and 2003, 1.2 million tons of raw sugar were imported, for which 274 million were exported from Ukraine and supported by a foreign producer That's what I'm talking World experience confirms that all stormy nations are confidently protecting their producers and, above all, the conditions for importing sugar into their territories. For the sake of justice, we also have this kind of protection in the form of the Law on State Control of Sugar Production, but it's not being implemented. It provides import duties of 300 euros per tonne. The bills that came after the imports of sugar-cheese and registered for consideration by the Supreme Council envision a reduction of this rate to 5 euros. Compare 300 euros and 5 euros. There is no such practice. Our nearest neighbor, Russia, has 95 euros per tonne. So I'm also addressing my colleagues, the national MPs from the faction of "Our Ukraine," who introduced this bill, and I'm asking him to call it off, because this path is a disastrous and will finally complete the strategic sector of the economy of Ukraine, and it will undermine the national security of the state. The bill under consideration, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation of customs forms of goods has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the positions expressed by the national deputies. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask your support, but perhaps we won't take a break to consider a few more bills, but we'll go to "The Difference" at 1:00 p.m.? Thank you. A draft road law is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the Ukrainian State Road Service Vladimir Fedorovich Demiscanz Vladimir Fedorovich, please in five minutes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u89	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, automobiles are an integral part of the state's transport system and have a significant impact on Ukraine's socio-economic development. The cost of transporting cargo and passengers, price levels, employment rates, and the pace of economic development are crucial to the state of the road. The world’s experience shows that it was from the development of automobiles that the economic crisis of many countries began, so the legislative provision of road traffic is of great importance not only to the road economy but also to all sectors of the economy and society. The legal basis for the operation of road traffic needs to be improved. Some of the legislative aspects of road operations are regulated by Ukrainian laws on road traffic, transport, and sources of financing. But these legislative acts do not cover the entire range of legal, economic, organizational, and social aspects of the operation of road traffic. They do not define the role of road traffic in Ukraine’s single transport system, the vaguely defined basic terms, the unresolved issues of public traffic management. Ukraine's Roads Bill has been developed according to the State Road Development Program 2000-2004. The law is defined in its main sections - the section "Car and roads of general use" describes the road as a complex of engineering buildings, defines the components of the roadways of general use, defines the road classification system, the order in which it is designed and financed. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to this bill, the public highways of general use are not privatized, they cannot be done, which may result in the alienation of roads from state property. An important part of the law is the distribution of road use by road, which regulates the duties and rights of road, requirements and organization of traffic, and means of transport. The draft law sets out the legal principles for environmental protection, construction, repair and acquisition of public roads, and the direction of the implementation of a single technical policy. According to the Ministry of Justice, Ukraine's draft road law is in line with the basic position of European Union legislation. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is determined that the bill can be adopted as a basis in the first reading. As we consider the draft law at the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, we are very grateful for a number of constructive comments. The point of these observations is that the law should apply to all without exception to the roadways of general use, rural streets, cities, cities, and other populated areas that are marked, and so on. In general, we do not deny such an approach, and we believe that all comments and suggestions can be taken into account in the drafting of the law in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules. The State Road Service is asking you, honourable national deputies, to support the Ukrainian Roads Bill and to re-examine it in the first reading to take into account the comments and suggestions of the national MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u90	I'd like to ask you to sign up if there are any. Please point it out on the board. Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u91	Lukjanenko Levko Grigorovich, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Vladimir Fedorovich, I'd like to ask you this. Ukraine was not an independent state, and so when we look at the road map and the roads and the railways, we see a very clear picture. It's from the north to the south of the line, and from the east to the west or the west to the east. This system is more or less developed. But in between, you know, the ends within Ukraine are not rounded. So I have a question. Is there a road rounding plan for Ukraine as a separate independent economic complex? That's the first question. And the second question. About 1972-1973-1974, there was a decree, I don't know it, to tear up these lanes of protection along the road. And they stayed quite narrow, or, you know, there wasn't enough ground for an orange, and there they were uprooting trees and remodeling, you know, and so on. I think they've done a lot of damage to these other defensive lanes that eventually protect the roads and eventually clean the air. What is your position now on this issue? I'll thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u92	Thank you. I want to say that, in fact, today, Ukraine has a geographical position and the first-line routes of communication that have a very important economic and life-supporting Ukraine, these are international transport corridors that go from east to south. And on the balance of public service today, there is a network of 170,000 miles [170,000 km] of roads, where there are just all directions that connect with all the regions of Ukraine. The only issue facing the road industry today, especially in the last five years, has declined and has come to a critical conclusion. So the decline of the local and rural roads that we have on the balance is what you all feel when you're in the districts and you're going through these roads. I think today, to do full-time work on improving local roads, it needs to increase funding, and it accounts for about 7 billion. We know that Ukraine can't afford such investment in the road today, but thanks to your support, in 2003, we've adjusted the funding plan considerably for the local roads, and we think they're going to be much better this year. And these connections, which will provide for all regions, will be greatly improved in the road industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u93	Vladimir Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u94	No, I'm still on the second question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u95	Well, you can't answer the questions for five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u96	With regard to the second question on the drain strip, we now have it within 14 meters on each side. And given that the larger withdrawal was taken away, today we have some bad trends in road construction. And my point is that it wasn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u97	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter! Would this bill be declarant, paper, or would its adoption have an impact on the improvement of road conditions in Ukraine? More specifically, how will the financing of construction and road repair be addressed? What are the sources of funding? And the second question has already been asked, which does not require funding. Why are trees cut down along the roads? It's a crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u99	Thank you. This bill does not provide for additional funding, but it determines only legislatively what should and should influence the public service on all roads and ensure the safety of movement, communication, and others. As far as funding is concerned, I am able to provide individual help in the working order. Today, it accounts for a billion 717 million in Ukraine’s budgets, and 35 percent of it is directed to local roads. In addition, 200 million are taxed by transporters. As far as logging is concerned. First. All these questions are not done on their own, and they agree with ecology. And I want to tell you that we have 70 percent of the roads where trees are in an emergency, so they're rotting. We land, we definitely do this work, we plant trees, and those trees that fall from the wind, and they are the safety of movement and safety of life, then in this case. And it agrees with environmentalists and nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u100	Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, Vladimir Fedorovich. I would like to invite the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, please. 2: 15:26 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The vital role of roads in modern life is universally recognized. Our deputies have consistently confirmed their attention and understanding, especially by their decision to finance the roads in 2003. We just need to make sure that the amount that the previous reporter mentioned here is actually allocated and this will be our first and real contribution to the social important issue. The bill under consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today refers to the regulation of the operation of out-of-town road vehicles as a single component of a single State transport system, such as those called to meet the needs of the population and society in passenger, freight and freight transport, and has important socio-economic significance. Because these roads are the basis for our state-wide road network. then there is certainly a need to have such clear legislative security and functioning. Today, there are a number of legislative acts in Ukraine that regulate a specific issue to some extent. [[They were mentioned by the reporter, and I won't repeat them.]] The proposed bill sets out economic organizational arrangements. the principles of the operation of the roadways of the country, their meaning for the economy of Ukraine, for society as a whole as part of the single transport system of the State, as well as the rules of use, rights and responsibility of the user and the relevant road services and other elements. Under regulation, this project is one of the priority areas for adapting Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation. In general, while appreciating the project, the committee considers it appropriate to take note of a number of proposals, comments that have come up with a draft law from the national deputies of Ukraine and experts in various fields. Committee members also have a number of comments and wishes. The main ones are that it is necessary for the bill to apply to all car routes and to give classification and legal status to all roads of general use: out-of-town, urban, rural, and both public and private. It is necessary to define the basic requirements for the entire national network of roads, as well as the authority and responsibility for the formation of all its elements, which would provide for the needs of local, regional, inter-regional and international road transport services, to provide for effective public administration of the road complex, and above all to enable and guarantee reliable communication as a primary objective. Particular attention is paid to the requirements of the coming of our nation’s road network to European transport corridors. It is known that 5 out of 9 such corridors pass through Ukraine. It is necessary to regulate the relationship between concessional and paid road operations in more detail, to identify the rights and obligations of owners and users of roads, and to write down the issues of public administration of the whole complex, including those of roads that are not on the balance of public road organizations. These and other considerations make certain requirements for the structure and content of the bill. The main scientific and expert office notes that the bill can be adopted as a basis in the first reading, taking further into account the comments and suggestions made. In view of the above, the committee proposes that the draft Roads Act should be re-readed, tasked with taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, other subjects of the right of legislative initiative to prepare for the re-first reading and to submit for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support this proposal when voting on the next plenary Thursday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to our colleague. Please put your names on the board. Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u103	Please pass the word to Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u104	Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u105	Dear Orestes Dmitrovich, I'm talking about funding again, because without solving this problem all laws are paper. In particular, where does the road congregation go? Is it used for purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u106	Indeed, the issue of financing is the most important issue. I keep repeating, I want to remind you once again that there are two enemies on the road: one is the water that destroys, every time it destroys the road, and the other is the parliament that determines the lack of money on the road. So I think that here we need to understand our role, that ours is just about as much funding as possible. As for what is being done today, according to the law that we passed and the 2003 Budget Act, the road assembly, which is being carried out by the owners of the means of transport, is going directly to the roads and is being distributed between local authorities and parts, 50 percent, to the concentration on roads of state importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u107	Yes, Andrew School, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u108	I share this suspicion with you about what the local authorities might be able to do when they receive these congregations, and they are not clearly using them for purpose. I share such anxiety. It's in the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u109	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u110	Dear reporter! Thank you. Andrew School, Yulia Block Timoshenko I'd like to interrupt the discussion here, I understand that, and protect a little bit of the Supreme Council, because if there were two enemies on the road, that would be, we would have gold if there were only two enemies. There are many more enemies: repairers who repair roads every time it rains; in the rain, the frosts go out and fly through holes. I'm saying that you're on the road -- it's like a low-flying bomber flew by, the war wasn't in Yugoslavia, it was in Ukraine, it was on the Ukrainian road, it was only the roads that were bombed. I don't know where this road congregation is going. I'd like you not to define how it's distributed, but the sum is called the sum of a road congregation that's spent on roads that are paid by drivers. And how much money does it take for the Supreme Council to finally get us to have at least one Lviv-Hark road through Kiev, where we can drive normally without going around the pit and creating an emergency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u111	Well, Your Honor, you're in your notes, when you quoted them, the first part, it was taken after all that water. There is water, there is rain, and when there is rain, then there are all the problems. So the water is still there. But there are also subjective circumstances that need to be taken into account and orderly. Of course, our roads are much worse than they should be for modern vehicles. Of course, they are not safe enough, but to do so we really need to increase our funding. There are other ways to increase, we're going to make these proposals for consideration of new sources of funding. Now I'm going to try to call that amount. Other sources of funding: for example. In all states, for financing construction and maintenance, there is an ingredient in the price of fuel-oil materials. 20-25 percent of the cost of fuel consumed goes directly to the construction and maintenance of roads. This is such a global experience. As far as the amount is concerned. It's small, it's about 250 million. And that's the sum, when it's spread out into our 25 areas, you realize it's even less than 10 million. for the area on average. That's a very small amount.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u112	Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u113	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Self-Floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u114	Valerius Samofowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u115	I have a question and a statement. In the late 1950s, Ukraine had a bad practice of planting greens, and poplars were the main breed. If this was right in the woodchoppers, the steppe zones, then this rule was transferred to both the western Ukraine and the north of our country, our Ukraine. And what you're cutting out poplars right now, you're planting plants that are supposed to be growing, is precious breeds -- nuts, oaks, you're doing the right thing. And as a reference to these jobs, you have to take the Suma area. That's when the Governor of Sherban arrived, and that's where the work is going. That's how I support you in this job.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u116	Thank you, thank you, Valery Ivanovich. But I'm not doing this directly right now, this job, although I'm dividing your position, which, in fact, today needs to be taken seriously. And I realize that when you're going on this road, for example, from the Hopbinger to the Hmelnicki, and there's those old lipes, and they're really beautiful, and they're really decorating the road, but it's an object of danger for that road and you have to put them away. The tunnel effect that causes trees close to the road is extremely dangerous, as experts know. Therefore, if we are to consider the roads from the points of view of today’s requirements, we need to approach them according to today’s standards. Maybe they're doing the right thing on the Matter, obviously. I think our passengers are qualified to do so where they need to be. And these poplars, they don't define our green potential today. That's how Catherine planted those glues. It's not Catherine. It's Potemkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u117	National Deputy Orzhachowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u118	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Your Honor, I have two questions for you. I wanted to ask the head of the State Committee. But that's what I think you're going to explain to me. The first question is, What is hindered today by the close cooperation of the State Committee and local self - government authorities in solving problems of ensuring the proper quality of local roads? How does the committee see this prospect of cooperation? And second, in the south of our country, particularly in Hersonian, the present winter seemed rather difficult. And it's particularly remarkable when the snows began to melt, when we feel submerged, we can't go through the roads, and everyone is mentioned by the drivers -- both the Supreme Council, and the government, and the people's deputies. Because, as you think, as a representative of the relevant committee of the Supreme Council, whether there is enough money on our State Committee to quickly create, to ensure a proper level of roads after these floods and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u120	Thank you. As far as proper cooperation is concerned, we do not see any obstacles to such cooperation. But cooperation alone does not ensure the goal that you say. Today, it takes opportunity to return to what is needed. And without investing, no matter how much we say, there's nothing we can do. The right quality can only be ensured by this. And your second question. Again, you feel like there's a problem of money. Of course, every winter, it's causing great, I'm going back to those that winter, water is ruining the road, it's causing great destruction. There is a need for recovery, of course. I'm sure that driving, driving, as I say, is going to be restored. But with regard to high quality, without proper funding, we cannot speak. Today I confirm, we've conducted an expert evaluation, we've tested this data many times, the calculations. Today we need about 7 billion dollars to sort our road system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u121	Thank you. Time's up, Orestes Dmitrovitch, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. Provide a list of the names of the national deputies who have been enrolled for discussion. We agreed on what, 10 minutes, right? Please, Vladimir Puzakov. Well, fifteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u122	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Road issues are one of the global economic issues. The existing state of the road network is almost all over Ukraine, and with each passing year, its technical condition deteriorates disastrously. The main reason for such a state of the road is very low funding. For example, the structure of the road network in the Kirovograd region does not meet the current requirements. The length of the first category is only a mile [1 km]. Today, the introduction of new roads has decreased. If 76.6 kilometers [76.6 km] of new roads were put into service in 1989, only 6 kilometers were planned for 2003. So less than 12 times. At present, an urgent repair requires 86 percent of the network of roads. The critical situation also arose with road bridges: 70 percent, which were built in the 1970s and today also require capital repair and reconstruction. What bus connections on these roads can be discussed? I will read an excerpt from a letter from the inhabitants of the village of Novoznesenska and Kyimivka of the Malovski district of Kirovograd. Save us! What country and what time are we living in? Naked, bossy, half-hungry, surrounded by hordes, liars, young people are killed, roadblocks are scary, canoes are even hidden. We've already forgotten what look and sound buses have. Where are those Marjorie deputies and administrators of the administration who promised a better life and even a better road ahead of the election? And today they're afraid of their Mercedes to come to our village. I mean, we're only needed by the authorities and the opposing MPs at the time of the election. There are many such letters. It's just a pit of thousands of problems that the authorities close their eyes to, and at best, they're just taking credit for the problems without hearing the screams and a hundred people's hearts. All of this, of course, is too serious. Therefore, when discussing and adopting this bill, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should monitor not only its implementation but also government funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u123	Yuri Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Yavorowski. There's no Yavorowski, is there? Then it's school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u124	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the noble Ukrainian people. Can we tell you how much money is spent on road maintenance? As head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, I was unable to achieve anything but how much money was spent. And when they started searching all over the country, how hard it was, and so far they're still looking. And then I started to wonder. It turns out that there are sizes of “returns”, shadow traffic, and so on. When you look at why the road was paved last year, and because of its quality. Because technology doesn't follow. And we say, more, more, more. Now we need a separate road law. I ask: Is the Road Traffic Law needed? Because the State has the Law on State Movement, on Transport, on Sources of Road Finance, on Local Self - Government. We have a bunch of laws. Make a change. And for me, when I was reading the law, I was looking for the answer, "What is the purpose of introducing the law, because it's just these?" This is confirmed by Kabmin and so on. I will not give examples. Nothing but declarations, nothing in the law. And then I figured out why. It turns out it's all covered in article 13 of "Organizations that run state-owned automobiles across urban roads of general use." Public administration, the use is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers, the authority for the administration of public roads. That's where the dog is. Because there are basic powers, the authority is written down, the organ will be separate. Just like the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, do you need to make a law for this? Perhaps there is no need for law to do so. And I want you to remember that Hitler and Mussolini were severely punished for building roads. I want you to mention all of our citizens of Kiev, other cities that, as they pass through the center of Kiev today and breathe that stench of technology, curse the last words of those people who have blocked the streets of the Bank, who have blocked the streets of Lutheran. After all, when the CDC was still there, it was possible to drive even a car, and it was possible to pass. It's closed now. How is that so? From one of the gas stations that you were afraid of on Lutheran Street, you blocked the entire movement. What are you doing, Your Honor, all along with the DAI. Over 10,000 people die on the roads every year because of your quality. These are still toothless courts, and the people of our toothless ones, all of them, are to present a suit to you and you will answer. Such a law does not necessarily need the right conclusion of the committee that it is not just raw but that it is interested in certain circles. And I think that when the sources of funding come out of the shadows, I see a lot more here, when all of the “returns” come out, all the financial and economic groups behind this funding will become clear who is interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u125	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u126	Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! I'd like to stop at the very text of the bill. First in order to, and then to go to the general part. You see, in the very text of the bill there is a sense of its hasty writing. Undeclared quality and normal positions. In particular, car roads of general importance are the first not to be written what they are, what they are different from out-of-town roads, and what they are not. I mean, a term has been introduced, and it doesn't fit the content of the bill itself. Next. I was just impressed by the phrase "roadsuits of the roadway." Is it normal to wear road clothes? Road pants there, for example, can be said as road shoes. No explanation is given as to who wears these clothes, who takes them off, what they are. And that's just how they wrote it. I think they're right about the national MPs who say what's going on, the law is written under another leadership structure, and that's clear. I would like to highlight one more fact. We have a road congregation here. That's what we talked about. It costs about a mile [1 km] in the West a million dollars, in Ukraine a million dollars. Let's suppose. For 250 thousand and 250 million, it is possible to build 250 miles [250 km] of roads each year. They're building? No, it's not. Are the roads being repaired? No, it's not. And I'm also surprised, like when every spring is a tragedy for us, every spring is an avalanche on the roads, every spring we discover that the snow is melting, that the water is coming in the spring. It's surprising to everyone. Every district manager, every roadie. They say, "What's the matter, we just flagged last year, and today we're going to have to do it again?" If we create control organs, it doesn't mean that the quality of what we control will improve. If we create fiscal laws, that doesn't mean. And to be able to control the implementation of these laws to an authority, that doesn't mean that we're going to have a quality product, that we're going to be quality roads. I think we need to control the money and the coming. But this should be controlled, cost and income, not by those who spend it, and not by those who should control the quality of the roads that build them. And that's why, as far as I'm concerned, the committee's decision to read again is too soft. I would recommend rejecting this law, redrafting it, figuring out who the roadside clothes will wear and go to the Supreme Council with a normal positive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u127	John the Rabbit, Vladimir Yavorowski will be next. Our Ukraine faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u128	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. As you can see, the law is imperfect, the bill is imperfect. What does this indicate? This indicates that we do not have a government policy on roads today. The fact is that roads provide a very high level of dynamics in life. And each state wants to have a clear system of roadways to provide security that would ensure the rapid delivery of people or cargo to their destination. And we're 10 years old, we're actually running a policy that's completely unfocused on the evolution of this dynamic of life. That's why we're lagging behind these countries in our economic development. But I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to draw your attention to a chapter like "Protection of the Environment." It's like a chapter. But is there anything travel in this chapter? All that is said is that there is a need for national environmental expertise in road design, in the reconstruction of roads. One of the powers of the special authority is literally "to cut down trees or other green plants in the lane of driving a car." And we're not going anywhere, Valery Ivanovich, we're not going to find a word here about what these trees need to be planted. For several years now, I have been driving and tracking this position. They cut trees around roads where they don't need to be. But nowhere did I see young trees planting around the highways today. And this is the norm, the norm that must be condemned, must be sanctions, must be criminal responsibility and must be administrative responsibility for the destruction of green plantings in Ukraine. Earlier, in the 1960s, the beast could migrate from Carpathian to our eastern lands to Lugansk. Why? Because there was a system of logging on both land and road roads. Where you're not going today, it's totally off. What's it for? For someone to drive 180-190 miles an hour, and they say that if we cut down trees, people will not fight. Men will fight, for at this speed nothing will save this man. So, dear friends, we need to look very closely at activities in the area of environmental protection. Drive through Kiev today. A little frostbite, literally for half an hour, froze the water and became a glacier. What do we see today? They spilled tons of this chemistry, this salt. Where does this water run today? She runs to Dnipro today, then we drink this water, then we take it and we get sick. So, dear friends, I would like to see this bill very clearly set out the objectives, the powers and the means of protecting the environment. I'm going to the Ministry, the Ministry, and the Ministry, and I'm going to stop cutting green plants around the car roads, if you don't have projects, and if you don't plant new trees, that's all, now that the birds are starting to nest. So I'm proposing to reject this bill, redraft it and submit it again to our hearing, and this bill is, in principle, necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u129	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. There will be no forest, no place to hide.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u130	Vladimir Yavorowski, Lvivščina, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky and Ravščina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u131	I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, it turns out that last week I was driving from an extreme west point, from Yavorov, where I was elected as an MP, to Odessa. And I kept thinking about the invariance of the geniuses of the absolute notions expressed by our great predecessor that the most important thing that distinguishes us in the whole world is the roads and the stupid. There's no problem with the fools. We're fine per capita here, and we're fine by a meter of good per capita road. Probably in one of the last places. I kept thinking, and I want you to hear, and I keep thinking, this same Polish, for example, is going from his homeland to Ukraine. Pass 5-6 kilometers to the final second, there, to the final third, and then Ukraine begins. Especially now, after winter, what terrible and terrible roads? What do those who cross Ukraine think of us in general? I'm not talking about this service there that's primitive, which they don't have, but what roads do we have today? I have this feeling that it's really best not to let foreigners in their cars so they can cross Ukraine if we want to keep their image a little bit. But I'm on it. It would seem that this law is essential. If you want, good roads are a company, it's the face of the state. Even in the same Moldovan road, the roads are much better. Carmazin's gone somewhere, I'm ready to support him. What's going on in Odessa, Yuri Carmazin, what's going on in Odessa, I don't know at all, I feel so bad that if this Bodelana were to let him just drive on these clothes roads in the morning, he'd start repairing them. Because of that hope, it was on this law that we would finally agree that this law would determine where the money was going, because the money was going, and every single one of us who pays, let's say I'm like the person who's driving the car, who's paying for the car, I want to know where the money is going? I'm so impressed. I think they're going in a very different direction. So I'm done. I don't want to impose a harsh sentence on this law, but I think it's absolutely not worth a dog, it's only one declaration, it's not regulating anything, it's going to freeze the situation as it is. That's why I wanted very much to be with you, my dear fellows, so that we wouldn't be tempted to do this so-called first reading, to accept in the first reading, and then in the second reading, nothing, in practice, would be fixed; it would all go away, you know how the void would roll, and we wouldn't fix anything. I'd really like to get married anyway, and we need to make a normal pragmatical road law in Ukraine. And I think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u133	Vladimir Alexandrovich. Well, from the procedure, please. I think the Supreme Council is not chasing the blank, so. Please, a black man from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u134	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the law on roads is necessary, but not in the way it is prepared. I still think we need to do it again first, or else, God forbid, he's gonna lose it at all. And I would like to take two basic circumstances into account when preparing for the rereading. The first is the quality of the roads, and the second is the financing and control of the use of funds. We've got snow on the asphalt every spring. This testifies to the quality of road work. I suggest we make the main or one of the criteria of government activity is the state of the road. And if the roads are bad, then you have to let go of power. And the second question is to monitor the targeted use of funds, both for the state budget and for the local budgets and for the road congregation. District administrations use the road congregation fund not by destination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u135	Thank you. Vladimir Fedorovich, dry residue, please. Do you agree with the comments of the national deputies? Out of place, just there, please. The microphone's already here. We can get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u136	Thank you. I want to say that, in fact, all the comments that have been made are very correct. We will certainly count them. And I've just asked you to reread it. And in that time, we'll take into account all the questions that were raised by the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the draft Roads Act has been completed. We will make a decision when we vote, taking into account the discussion. I'd like to ask if we can see another document? Joseph Viennese, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u138	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Usually, when we begin consideration of the following issues, the question of speaking with the deputies always lingers. We have literally 12 minutes left. I would ask you not to announce the next question and move on to different questions. So that this time, even if we're going to put ourselves into that regulatory standard that we're starting at 1:00, we're going to give the MPs a chance to step out of the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u139	What do you think, dear colleagues? Let's move on to different things. Please list the names of the national deputies that have been registered. Twenty-five, right? Is there more? Zara Katusheva. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u140	Yesterday, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, under the extraordinary pressure of the President of Ukraine, supported the dispatch of the Ukrainian battalion allegedly at his request and, in fact, at the direction of the United States of America. We all understand that very well. America has grossly violated the status of the United Nations and international law by unleashing war on Iraq. Ukraine joined the anti-Iraq coalition, thereby violating the status of the United Nations, going beyond international law and putting itself outside this authoritative organization. It is unfortunate that the United Nations is being destroyed by hands today, including Ukraine. And our Power was its founder. This is a problem at the light level, although we have little internal problems. Dear voters, I would like to address you from this rostrum today. Yesterday, a terrible crime was committed against the people of Ukraine. You have been betrayed by those whom you have entrusted with your destiny, the fates of your children and your grandchildren. This is mostly the part of the popular voters who bought your votes for a cane of sausage or a kilo of rice. The time has come to pay for the supplies, and they have chosen the blood of your children. Each of you must take responsibility for voting in favour of this House. It's your fault that my friends in Parliament didn't have enough to vote yesterday, in fact, for the people's interests. There is a need to draw conclusions from the fact that has come to pass. For all of us, for the future: for whom do we vote: Until yesterday, I believed that the mother's instinct was not subject to political or economic cataclysm, but there were so-called women in Parliament who voted in favour of sending the Ukrainian battalion to Kuwait. Saying it's scary means not saying anything, it's on these women's conscience. I would like to make a suggestion that it may be absurd, I understand that this is not real, but I would very much like to see such a decision and a shameful decision taken yesterday in favour of sending this battalion to be formed by those deputies and their sons who voted in favour of this decision yesterday. I apologize to our constituents, our fathers and our grandfathers, who raised us in the spirit of high patriotism, for failing to fulfill their vow: peace of home land, happiness for children, prosperity for the beloved land. I am ashamed of the Parliament and of my colleagues with whom I have to sit in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u141	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u142	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Yesterday, really, there was a huge tragedy, and I want to say that the tragedy happened in our faction. 40 percent of its members voted in favour of the ratification of the agreement. 40 percent, thank God that 60 percent of the healthy forces are in our Ukraine that have endured both pressure and harassment and everything. And I want to make it clear to the Ukrainian people that 60 percent of "our Ukraine" is healthy, patriotic forces that are against targeting and against battalions, against sending our children to war for other people's sakes, so that today someone who, by interrupting all the TV programs, again turned to the people and said, "Boys, but I didn't, but I didn't, the Supreme Council voted, and I did." Yes, they knew the value of those words. I have before me the President's decree of March 18th, and yesterday was the 20th. This decree began cynically, as follows: "Considering Ukraine's obligations as a state, a member of the United Nations, on the basis that Ukraine's participation in the provision of assistance." And so on. If it were to help Iraq, which had been attempted by the United States of America’s political terrorism, it would be understandable. But it was about Kuwait, a neighboring country. And today we are a nation that has joined the warring one. Under international law, we are wrong today, we are on the side of the aggressor, where 40 countries are. And, dear friends, I speak to you and address you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yesterday, we passed with more severe violations of the Rules and Laws on sending foreign troops abroad, because without ratifying the law on ratification, we immediately voted in favour of the second law on direction. [[and the law, according to the Constitution, enters only after it has been published, i.e. it is printed and signed]] We had no right to do that. That's why I'm talking to you. It's your responsibility now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Do not sign until the first law is signed, do not sign until warnings are made. And I'm addressing you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, on one more question. You're a fair man, we see your democracy grow in the Supreme Council. I asked you a question, I asked the Supreme Court about the unconstitutionality of taking office as head of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine by Pritika Dmitr Mikitovich. Two years ago, both the judges and the heads of the court ended. This is why the people of Ukraine received only one billion dollars for the privatization of half the state. Because it's all sold under the table!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u143	Thank you. Vadim Gurov, please. Get Hinsburg Olsie ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! Vadim Gurov, 32th constituency, Krivbass. There has been a great deal of talk recently about our country's economic development strategy. Also, the Government's programme before 2004 clearly states that, ahead of steam smoke, science-intensive, energy-saving technologies must be developed. And first of all, it's a machine, it's an airplane, it's a ship, it's cybernetic, it's an agriculture. I don't mind at all. But among all the slogans, a locomotive that pulls this train is a mining complex. Yeah, he's a lot older, he's heavy, he's not exactly modern, he's a lot of pre-war construction. But let's take a look on the other side. The world is moving forward, and we are just talking and hoping for something. Let's take a look, look, MPs! In 2002, 65 countries produced 887 million tons of steel, with 53 million growing steel production per year. It's when Bush and everyone else says, "Stop it, 'cause there's a red tape going on." And we've got big heads on this. Just think, the increase is one and a half in our Ukraine. One China produced 181 million tons, while the Soviet Union produced only 110 million during the boom period. We're in seventh place right now, that's 34 million. But I want to pay attention to the resources we have. The Anakiev factory, the oldest one made confetti, one of the best businesses now. Let's move on. The Donetsk Metalworks, which had already collapsed, had privatized, built a normal plant. Flagman, our "Criogestal" -- a hundred percent in the state -- see how it worked -- 550 million net profits! 500 million States have not returned VAT. Raised wages, now over 900,000. The question is: How can I live? Both private and public are available and can work under normal leadership and normal schemes. And these are the schematics they want to transfer to the Iron Star Krivbass. You can't do that in any way! Because Iron Krivebass is the foundation, the foundation, it's the iron mining industry, it's not the factory. So look what's happening in Krivbass now compared to last year. Growth - 34 per cent of production - 19 per cent increase in income. And suddenly someone wants to privatize it. I think that the balance that has now been established on the country of the Carnivore cannot be touched in any way. Because to destroy and then to repent three years later, to say that we made a mistake, that is, there will be no turning back. This is very serious because there must be a single technical policy. And more. At the moment, the violent heads say, "Krudprom" is the main screwdriver producer, and we have to get rid of the new government. Therefore, when we consider this issue in plenary meetings, I am asking you to support the Krivbass Ironworks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u145	Olga Petrovna Hinzburg, Communist faction. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u146	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Communist faction, Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I went out to the rostrum today, thinking of a friend, but I get a lot of letters from my constituents, and here I am, taking them with me, and each of them says, well, Olga Petrovna, read my letter, my pain, let people hear how I live. And the second and the third. I want to tell my constituents. I just can't read them -- a lot of them, but I'm going to try to put them together somehow. I want to start by saying that I'm actually a very happy person, because I've been a communist since 1976. And every time I explain why I'm a communist, I think, in 1828, the Decabriists, this is Bestužev Rumin, Pestel, Muraviev-Apostol, Kahovsky fought for justice, they're rich people. I read to myself about Ernest Chegevar, who was a well-deserved man who became a revolutionary and fought for the better future of his citizens, and he said, "What is important for politics and what is important for man? It is to see the problems of its people and to raise them to social security, to protect them economically and to help those peoples who are oppressed and attacked today.” Therefore, in understanding and following these positions, I say today: how sad that our Ukraine is weak, as a pity that the communists have given up power, as a pity that they are not in power today. Because if the Company were in a strong state today in Soviet Ukraine, it would not be like this, for example, from a small beginning, and there would be large, quality products in stores. Having a party, we're going back to the county. You keep walking in or facing people who buy junk products, and that's how our population dies. Inadequate sausage, fake oil, vodka. And the State. which today is obliged to do so does not address such minor problems. Today, we raise the question of how we can provide our community services to the pensioner and the veteran today, so how can he live? Could it have been in the Soviet State? I couldn't. Could it have been in the hands of Communists? I couldn't. Deforestation. Could it have been or not? Don't interrupt me! You've already done your part in the 91st year, so now sit back and talk about the eleven years you've done with the state. I've already spoken and said, "We gave you Soviet Ukraine, strong and rich, you broke it up, you bombed it, you stole it, you apologize for the expression, and now you've given the people a bad salary." That's all you've got. That's what you're sitting on. And what right do you have to say - you did it in the country, you did it, not me, you did it! He's sitting quietly and responsible for everything. I want to talk to my constituents. When you, distinguished voters, come to meetings today, you gather for pickets, you say in these rallies and pickets that all power or all the guilt of power isn't just up there, not in the Supreme Council or in the President. How many problems and how many faults there are in the local authorities, which should be responsible for all the problems we face, including the high pay for utilities, poor food, high school fees and kindergartens, and so on. But when the elections come, know that only the Communist Party that comes to power can provide and remove these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u147	Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u148	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Ukraine's agriculture is at the beginning of spring-field work. Their volume has increased considerably this year for well - known reasons. However, the need for material and financial resources has increased objectively to carry out all technological operations in the spring field. In addition, the situation is compounded by a significant increase in energy resources. I would like to focus on some issues of tariff policy for the consumption of electricity by agricultural enterprises. Over the past 12 years, energy consumption in the production of energy has reduced agriculture from 19 billion kilowatt-hours to 3.5 billion kilowatt-hours. The current electricity consumption in 2002 was 106 percent. At the same time, in the last two years alone, electricity tariffs for agricultural producers have grown by an average of 65 percent. Most agricultural producers feed on energy supplies that do not exceed 35 kilowatts and refer to second - class consumers, thus paying for tariffs much higher than industry. If this difference did not exceed 0.5 percent in 1998, it was already up to 40 percent in 2002. So today the industry pays 14.5 cents per kilowatt-hour, the agriculture pays 23.4 cents per kilowatt-hour. Second, in view of the fact that power producers receive electricity only through the power grids of power-generating organizations, this enables energy suppliers as monopolistic owners to impose contract conditions on consumers and, in particular, to set artificially low levels of energy supply, and then to impose fines for their excesses, and to charge a penny for untimely settlement. Such a situation does not allow the farmers to completely extinguish and budget their electricity consumption at the right time. In our view, the government needs to address urgently the issue of regulating the energy supply of farmers and provide for a number of measures in the Ukrainian Ministry’s programme of activities, particularly in relation to the seasonal nature of production, to cancel the payment of fines to energy producers at five times the cost of the difference between the actual consumption and the contractual amount of energy. So make changes to the Ukrainian Electricity Act, write off the hopeless debt of electricity producers. But restructure the final amount of the debt. Compare the tariffs for state - water companies that provide water to irrigation systems, agriculture repair companies, and rural utilities with the tariffs of first - class consumers. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary address to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u149	Thank you. Nosenko Mikola Petrovich, faction of the Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u150	Mikola Nosenko, Company faction, All-U.S. Workers' Union. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! On the eve of the 17th anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster, I want to comment on the situation that keeps my countrymen, the residents of the Radioactive Pollution Zones of Montenegro under stress. Because the National Program, created by the Cabinet of Ministers, provides for the elimination of the fourth zone of enhanced radioactivity control. That the freeway would deprive some 80,000 people or 78 percent of the inhabitants of the polluted territory of the area. The medical aspects of the Chernobyl disaster have yet to be studied. At the same time, the screening of radiological pollution zones does not take into account the most important health situation of the affected population, which according to the Administration of Public Health has a steady tendency to worsen. The prevalence of disease among affected children in the area has increased more than 20 times during the post - accident period and 23 times. Which is much higher than the similar figures in Ukraine. In 2001 alone, the number of children affected by the disease increased by 15 percent to 1,806 per 1,000. The demographic situation is complex in the area. In 10 months 2002, the number of deaths was 2.8 times higher than the number of births. Not for the much better situation in Zitomirsk and Kyiv, which also suffered from the Chernobyl disaster. But the leadership of our nation and some of our national deputies are very concerned about the people of Kuwait. By the way, from the territory of which the aggression of the U.S. and the U.S. troops began to attack Iraq. The result of such care was yesterday’s acquisition of the Supreme Council’s permission to send Ukrainian tea to Kuwait. The discussion found that tens of millions of dollars are being allocated to the State’s budget to maintain such a battalion, which, according to the terms of the agreement and the previous conduct of the United States leadership, is unlikely to be returned to Ukraine. We are well aware of the unfulfilled promises of compensation for the closure of the Chernobyl AES and the use of the airspace of Ukraine in American operations called Storm in the Desert. So, for patriots, when we take away our people's last crumbs, leaving them alone, with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and with this economy, we provide a send-off of the sons of Ukraine to the world in agreement with Uncle Sam. Remember, regardless of the eloquent calls made by television screens, those who have done so will bear full responsibility. And I think they're going to regret their decision again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u151	The word is given to Sergey Ivanovich Slabenko, a nonfractional, Volinsk region.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have repeatedly raised questions about the construction of the 10th mine. I'm really being approached by workers who are constantly building the tenth mine, the heads of the Volin territorial organization of trade unions, the coal industry workers, the head of the city council of Novovolinsk, who in their reports are asking one question: What's going on in the city of Novovolinsk, the small mining town of Volinsk? It is very difficult to imagine the problems facing this city today. But the problem of mine 10 really needs to be solved. Because the situation at the end of 2002 became exactly what I would like to report to him right now. Over a million dollars in debt to coal miners has increased. 360,000 dollars for electricity, 600,000 dollars for tax liabilities, and bankruptcy of the coal - building trust. State inspectorate has been issued for violations of working conditions. The meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Hajduk did not produce the desired result, and the promise to resolve at least part of the financing problem at the end of 2002 the construction of the 10th mine only remained evidence of the inability without the right to manage the budget to respond quickly to mining problems. Not by chance on February 7, 2003, at the Supreme Council session, I asked Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to take special note and personally control of the construction of the 10th mine and the allocation of the necessary funds. Also, in 06.02.2003, I asked Anatoly Josephovich of France for the activities of the Volin district government to inform me of specific work in this direction. A parliamentary request from a group of national deputies from Volin district Volodymyr Mihajlovich Litwin directed to the head of the Volin district government. According to its contents, the answer is less than the answer. And the answer is that in March 2002, the financing of the 10th mine could be addressed by the Ministry of Economics and Minpolivenergo. More than eight times the appeal to the various authorities of the State did not produce the desired results. So it wasn't by chance that I asked the Prime Minister to take control of this issue. Hennady Andriyovich Vasiliev sent me a request. The answer was given by Sergey Jermilov, Minister of Fuel and Energy, in which he said that the issue could not be resolved either, because it was not agreed with the Ministry of Economics. I would like to ask that, at the previous meeting of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, I have pointed out that it is up to the MPs to whom they are addressed. And there would be no more things about such disagreements. Therefore, I would like to register my statement as a parliamentary request, transfer it to Prime Minister Yanukovic of Ukraine and receive a specific response to the construction of the 10th mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u153	Anatoly Mikolayovich Moroz, the Communist faction, the Zaporez region.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u154	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear colleagues! We are very often approached by the leaders of the companies asking them to restore justice and to stop the lawlessness that is being produced in the grain market. Here's an example. The Friends farm is one of the numbered farms of the Tokmatic region of Zaporozhye Region, which survived in the APC reform cap, concluded a contract with the private enterprise Donpromtechnik for the sale of 100 tonnes of wheat at the price of the agreed agreements on 9 July 2002. At the right time, the money did not come at the expense of the farm. When the manager started to figure it out, and it became clear that this Donpromtechnik guy, he made a sale-of-grain sale with another firm, he took the money and ran away. He, in turn, reselled Demidenko. Demidenko sold "Serney." And that's where the black ended up. When the manager realized that he had just been "incarcerated," he turned to the Tokmatic DVD for help. On July 19, 2002, a criminal case was committed under article 194 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, "Sahraia, committed in a particularly large way", under which the agro-company "Friendship" was recognised as a complainant. And for a year now, as this is going on, the seeds of the host are not coming back. And at the time of the appeal of this agro-firm to the city's attorney, to the district attorney, to the Attorney General's Office, there are some receipts going around. The trial found that the manager of the Donprotechnic private enterprise did not calculate and implement the grain to other entities. Since the grain was an object of crime, 09.08 B.C.E. In 02, a decree was passed on to the state-owned company Bread Base No.74. With regard to the statement made by Climenko’s supervisor, Anatolia Pavlovich, on the return of his grain business, the matter must be settled in the Economic Court between other subjects of economic activity and business activity, which is also caused by crime. Here you go, comrades, help. Without me, I was said to have been married without asking for it or even ignoring article 41 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which says that no one could be unlawfully deprived of ownership. The right to private property is inviolable. I will not quote this article; rather, it should be read by those who are on the watch and watch over it. Article 45 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which states that the victim is recognized as a person who has been harmed, including property. It is not clear why before the prosecution, the authorities do not talk about the legality or illegality of the activities of those intermediary firms that have conducted cash calculations, namely, tax evasion to the State. And it is very interesting to note that the head of the household court should decide the matter between other business and business subjects. In general, the absurdity, the firm that carried out this crime, disappeared, and I have to sue someone. Clearly, all the subjects of this affair have suffered in a moral and material way, but the main thing is that they suffer from a harvesting group and are not benefiting materially from it. That's why I, Alexander Alexiyovich, would like to consider this as a parliamentary request. I think maybe the District Attorney's Office and the Attorney General will give the Supreme Council an answer and return the grain to the master. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u155	The word is given by Vasil Vasilovich Onopenko, the non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u156	Thank you. Basil Onopenko, Head of the Ukrainian Social Democratic Party. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, who listen to me, and separately would like to address the judicial corps and prosecutors. We literally approved in this room yesterday candidates for high-ranking positions at different levels of judges. Yesterday, we presented, as always, objective requirements regarding the legality of judges, impartiality, objectivity, and just decisions they make on behalf of the State. But as this is done in practice, I would like to point to the example of the city of Kharkiv when a criminal case has been brought against a judge under such circumstances. In particular, the deputy prosecutor of Harkov Kovalenko on 13 January of this year has violated the four-signed Barrodin Michael Mikhailovich's deputy head of appeal, citing that the court college headed by Borodin, who was in court, violated the rules of substantive law, procedural and deliberate inequitable decision, I emphasize that he has made an unfair decision. A criminal case was committed. It was Borodin that began to be harassed. And you can only imagine the psychological pressure that was going on with him. First of all, I would like to remind you that Borodin was not the only one in the judicial college, there were three judges. The decision was taken in a collegiate manner. I would like to remind such prosecutors that, in accordance with part five of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 14 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure is mandatory for enforcement throughout Ukraine. The prosecutor did not press charges in the appeal or in the court’s ruling, but he did not file a criminal case. I would like to point out that, apart from the superior court, no one has the right to review the decision of the lower court. So I would like to ask you a few questions. Who made the order to judge the principled, honest and orderly here in Kiev or perhaps in the city of Kharkiv? In view of what did Kovalenko himself grossly violate the rules of the Constitution, the rules of criminal procedure and the criminal case? I would like to remind you that, literally recently on March 11, this year, the District Court of Poltava adopted a decision that satisfied Borodin’s complaint and declared a criminal offence by this deputy prosecutor of the city of Kharkiv illegal in connection with the absence of a component of the crime. What is it, rather than pressure on judges? So I'm asking everyone today not just to dismiss such a prosecutor, but I need the Attorney General to file a criminal case against this deputy. And I think it's a matter of honor for the Supreme Council to take control of this issue. And I would like, Alexander Alexiyovich, to see this question that I have raised as a parliamentary request to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u157	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, Socialist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u158	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear voters, Your Honor Alexander Alexiyovich, I would like to make my statement and ask you a question. The Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatisation Control, which I am in charge of, addressed the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine four times and received four receipts. That's why I'm calling in the open mode and hoping to get an answer from the Attorney General's Office to put it in this room. On September 21, 2000, a shareholder of the holding company Ukrnaftoftproduct entered into a credit agreement with Beveloinvestments Minitep, Republic of Cyprus, for an amount of 3 million. The United States dollar, or 16.6 million United States dollars That's right. And to secure the contract, he mortgaged a control package of three companies that are strategically important for the economy and security of the state -- the Crim-Film Product VAT. At the same time, the cost of its own assets was only one of the three companies called Eximnaft Product. That's right. Earnings in 2000 This appropriation is intended to cover And the stock control package of this company, transferred to the mortgage, was estimated at 840,000. That's right. Imagine, dear colleagues, what a difference! Of course, the loan was not recovered, and the control package of the three companies was alienated from government property. This pledge agreement was unanimously approved by members of the monitoring board of the holding company Ukrnaftoftoproduct, among which were representatives of the State, government officials: from the Ministry of Economics of Nifontov from Naftogazprom to Minpaliv, Kalchenka, and the head of the observation board at the time was the National Deputy of Ukraine, former member of the Special Supervisory Board of the Supreme Council on the issue of control of the privatisation of the Špaks, Alexander Grigorović, who worked as the director-general of the association "Ukrnaftof Product" before the election. Until then, members of the board of directors of the stockholding company remained government officials Nikiphonov and Calchenko. Thus, despite the fact that hundreds of millions of dollars were alienated from the State, the Attorney General’s Office does not see the signs of the crime provided for in the Criminal Code. I'd like the Attorney General to answer that question. And last but not least, Alexander Alexiyovich, we see on TV "Silly Time" a constant zombation and clarification to Ukrainian citizens, that the law on agricultural cooperation is former co-operatives. I want to speak to Mr. Chihuahua: the Law on Agricultural Cooperation, which I am a co-author, provides for a collective form of private ownership. And let's not get confused. And it is not possible for television today to conduct anti - state politics in a part of an explanation of the law that is actually exchanged by the media. I want to say the same thing about the law on collective farming. No one canceled it. Today, a collective agricultural enterprise is a member of its citizens, who have private property, a collective form of organization of work. And I would like the representatives of the organization not to confuse the form of the organization of work with the form of ownership. Thank you. And I think that's my MP's request.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u159	The word is Rephat Abdurahmanovich Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u160	Dear Chief, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Yesterday in this room, we were solving a very simple question, namely, sending the Ukrainian battalion to Kuwait to protect its civilian population in the event that it would be threatened by a war in Iraq. Both in this room and abroad, especially in the media, there are numerous forecasts of the consequences for Ukraine in connection with yesterday’s decision. I would like to urge politicians, including my colleagues, to avoid any speculation in your speeches about the artificial attachment of the Iraqi crisis, which is certainly a political crisis, some religious or ethnic motivation. I would like to emphasize once again that in Islam, as well as in other religions, human rights are the highest value. We don't have one, and since a colleague from your faction doesn't want to call it a last name, he's gone now. Yesterday, speaking on a nationwide television channel, he said that we should expect some outrage from the Muslims of Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens, and the name Crimea. This is your colleague, you can wave your hand. We should not determine our personal position by virtue of the faith or belief of those who suffer or whose political views they hold. I'm one of those people who didn't vote in favour of sending the Ukrainian battalion to Kuwait yesterday. I didn't vote for just one reason. Because there was no final decision of the UN on the military solution to the Iraqi crisis. So I voted against using double standards to solve the problems of one nation or another. I want both our halls, and in these stands, we don't have these double standards. And we've seen them today in almost some of the previous performances that were different. There's a dictatorship in Iraq. In Iraq, human rights are brutally violated. That's why yesterday, when we made decisions, we got out of one or another of those complex minds of our own. But if we come from the fact that such a decision can be applied against one country, let us see. What's going on in our immediate neighbors? I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that eight years with a little break there's a war going on in Chechnya, hundreds of people are killed every day. More than 100,000 people were killed by Chechens from one million people. Isn't that genocide? This is what I'm saying before, let's take a look in this room and look at the role and role of Ukraine in saving the Chechen nation is also interesting, as we discussed yesterday in the Iraqi crisis. To conclude, on March 18th the day, a large group of Russian intelligence accepted an appeal to their government, to President Putin. I'm done. Just one tape. “It is not only human material but also moral loss that is unacceptable. In recent years, limitless violence has become the norm of Russian State policy.” I want to call on the Ukrainian intelligence, starting with the intelligence representatives in this room, to give our voice, not selectively, but to protect all those who are suffering, who are being killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u161	John Sidorovich Boki, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u162	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. What happened yesterday in the Supreme Council, we, the socialists, consider it a great disgrace that lies on the entire parliament. The Conformist and Cologne majority in the Supreme Council under the influence of morals and some misunderstandings of Ukraine’s interests in the Middle East have brought our country into a war that has every prospect of becoming the third world. It's pretty clear that people like Kravczuk have been talking about morals here, and they've long since proved in Soviet times that just any morale for them is just a different coin in dirty playgrounds. I know what I'm talking about, because as a rural news reporter myself, I was in the pits of the vile scheme of Kravczuk, who wanted to dissolve our organization as anti-party and anti-Radians. And now this person is still teaching someone morals. It shows that President Kuchma did not come to the Supreme Council. His pathological fear of discussion with the deputies is well known. Even after his letters, he is afraid to answer questions. He likes to communicate with the people only with the help of a telesuffler. But to involve the state in war with foreign hands, that's, you know, the last degree of decline. Then it should not be surprising that Kuchma’s citizen refused to lead the battalion in Kuwait. Kuchma’s coward is buried in the heat of the United States by the lives of young citizens of Ukraine at the expense of a budget that is lacking in pensions and wages. And this is his permanent disgrace, as a disgrace to all the government officials, and among them also the lying colonel of the Tobacco who refused to go to the battalion voluntarily. They and Kuchma may have imagined themselves to be a golden foundation of the nation, but what gold is there if, in their years of government, Ukraine was destroyed twice as much as the Nazis during the Great War of the Homeland. In any case, the people will never sing about the Tobacco that he is a “real colonel”. By the way, none of the deputies who voted in favour of ratifying the agreement and directing the battalion to Kuwait volunteered to go there. I think, rather than wave your hands to talk about your understanding of morals, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko might also be more useful in setting a personal example in saving the victims of the country, whose interests here he advocated under the alias of Ukrainian national interests. But I don't think he or his loyal associates, Lilia Grigorovich, Mikola Joulinsky, Oleg Rybauk and others, who filled the ranks of bushmen last night or plunged into their ranks, won't dare to do that. It is easy to kill others, and all these tailors, hedgehogs, grigoros, and other moralists never mobilize missiles and bullets. One can only thank the Kuchima, except for the fact that he opened his eyes to himself and to the hens and to all who creep into the heart of the people. And thank God that the people now know who is who.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u163	The word is made by Leonid Mikhailovich Vernigor, Sozpartia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u164	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! So, indeed, there is something for us to do in our country, not to look beyond the edge of the world before that Kuwait. We're talking about this in Poltavska about this kind of movement for the company: Nate and my cabbage jar. But as is often the case, it is broken down by someone who is very crowded with that jar. He hears my heart. Meanwhile, we have our jobs across the country in our country. The only thing we have left for people today is the social insurance funds, which are the only social guarantee we have today. All these funds are social insurance, funds that are foundations for social formation, social governance, and social consumption today perform their functions. And then people get proper compensation: both dead and alive and unborn and sick and mutilated and unemployed. I mean, those who are being taken care of by the fund. And adults are also being healed, children. Free legal aid is paid, according to the 29th Constitution. Extra - school New Year’s work, sports among schoolchildren, among young people, is funded. But recently, for some marking of the 100-day regime of the coalition government, it's been someone's desire to destroy it, and more honestly, to take everything away from people except birth and burial, because today this process is not managed, although the numbers also depend on the quality of governance. The idea came up to bring all these funds together in retirement. Who's the initiator? It turns out that it's the Ministry of Social Policy. Attention! I'm asking. Why is it urgent to reform something in the state when it comes to us? That's why I'd like to say. Dear people! Why don't you just shut up? Is it because you all live outside of poverty and you have nothing to defend? I propose, Alexandre Alexiyovich, that we put the government's practice of applying, if not intervention, the government's mandatory social insurance laws, the Supreme Council's control, and then hold parliamentary hearings on this issue. The Supreme Council must preserve this last oligarch-unaccepted social security for the people. And then, as we have often done, this is to stop the broadcast, even if it's an Argentine television show, so that the President doesn't talk about the battalion in this break, but by his decree he canceled those social insurance reforms and removed those reformers that are being born. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u165	Thank you. Anatoly Dmitrovitch Grzezhev, Socialist Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, respectable Alexander Aleksevich! As the practice of our lives has shown, we are once and for all creating unnecessary problems in which responsible authorities can avoid them. And thus create a balanced, peaceful environment in society. Socialists have systematically drawn the attention and attention of the authorities to the need for a balanced and predictable approach to decisions taken. But power ignores all our warnings. From this rostrum, we announced a very negative situation, consisting of grain and bread in Ukraine. We requested that this issue be addressed immediately. But the train, as they say, is there now. I returned from Crimea on Monday and saw with my own eyes that the whole of southern Ukraine had not yet begun its spring-field work. This means that the beginning of growth and development of basic grain crops is delayed for at least two weeks. As a result, up to thirty per cent of their yields should be expected under other equal conditions. We can say with great confidence that there are great challenges to the food supply of the population. I don't fold paint in any way. I'm talking about the realities that exist today. What should be done, in our view? First. To entrust the Government with dealing with the cash remnants of the 2002 crop and to take measures to prevent its export outside Ukraine by various scallops and slabs, and to put an end to the price gap. We insist on the establishment of an investigative commission on these issues, as stated in our statement. The perpetrators must be held accountable. Second. It became a system: both spring and new fuel, oil and lubricants. That's what we see today. In an accessible language, this means that a diversion is being and is being carried out today as a basis for society's life. In my view, the Government may and should end this break-up and provide preferential fuel, oil and lubricants prices for peasants by will, because food security is at stake. And finally, third. Society needs to know the situation of things on pain issues. It would be right to do so, not by correspondents, although not by exclusion, but by the first leaders of the State. They should be invited to speak systematically on television on the most pressing issues. In particular, I would like to hear publicly from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who I have respected, on guarantees regarding the normal provision of food for 2003-2004 and what will be with food prices. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u167	Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, Soccer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! Yuri Lucenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine In my statement, I would like to inform you that I, as well as Taras Cnerwell, as members of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the murders of Gongadze, Alexandrov, the assassination of the national deputy of Jelyashkewich and other resonant crimes last week were visited by the United States, where they reached an official agreement on the cooperation of the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the Ministry of Justice of the United States of America. The other one. We've made an official act of transferring recording devices and conversation files to the President's office and other offices of the President's Administration, which relate to the following criminal topics. First, in the Gongadze case, additional materials were produced that shed light on the role of the perpetrators of the crime, conversations made after George Gongadze’s disappearance. The second is in the Jeliaškevitch case. Three episodes of the assassination, discussion of the method of the assassination, and information on the execution of the tasks assigned to the criminals were presented. The third was the handover of materials related to the laundering of dirty money, including in the United States at the direct direction of the President of Ukraine. The fourth was the handover of materials that indicate the illicit arms trade with different countries, not just Iraq, which is widely known. And other things that I have no right to talk about today under an agreement with the United States Department of Justice. The Ministry of Justice reports many names of senior officials in Ukraine, such as Kuchma, Lithuania, Medvedchuk, Azarova, Kravchenka, Surkis, and other Ukrainian citizens, who are likely members of an organized criminal group. Under the consent of the parties, the Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice of the United States, the information is not detailed. Third. We, members of the commission, met with Jeliaškević and Miroslav Gongadze, who are also in the territory of the United States, the first in the status of political refugee. Jelješkević appealed to our commission to ask the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to officially conduct international film expertise in the United States of America. We are absolutely confident that, sooner or later, such an international expertise will be conducted and, as in the case of the so-called Tarastian body, will be recognized by the Attorney-General's Office, which will pave the way for the legal proceedings against Kuchma and its immediate surroundings. I've got everything. Before meeting with members of the organized criminal group of Ukraine in the courts of the United States and Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u169	Alexander Petrovich Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u170	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski The constant flow of time does its job. It is becoming less and less direct participants in the events of the Great Homeland War. But there are people among us who, with full authority, can claim to be a party to a war, even though they did not have to attack, defeat enemy planes, or lower enemy vehicles. They were the ones who were children during the war. It was difficult, incredibly difficult for adults, soldiers, and the workers in the rear during the war, but who and on what scales could weigh the suffering of children who grew up and grew up in wartime misery? The vast majority of them are orphans or half orphans, some of them were born under German bombs, some carried the Leningrad blockade, some Nazi camps. And those who were even in the back were behind the presses, working to win. They had no opportunity to learn, many of them did not become scientists, high - ranking leaders. Malnutrition, fear, horrible images of death and destruction -- all of this reminds them now of that time. And the difficult postwar years when these people entered adult life. Most of them carried on their shoulders the burden of rebuilding the ruined national farm. Now they're mostly pensioners who've been abandoned on their own. A meager pension does not even allow you to eat properly, let alone treat. You need to be treated because war childhood is evident. So maybe it's time to take care of these people? Now came the natural process of bringing these people together, whose childhood was during the war. These are people born in 1928-45. They set up a social organization called the Children of the Great National War, which aims to recognize this category of citizens as participants in the war. Life-Murishing has also been created and there is a regional community organization called the Children of the Great Homeland War, which today has a population of about 14,000 citizens, whose childhood has been fueled by war. Ukraine’s Socialist Party advocates that society follow the people with disabilities and veterans of the Great War of Homeland take the lead over a population category such as the children of war. The Socialist Party's faction in Parliament, together with representatives of the “Babys of the Great War” District Social Organisations, is drafting and introducing a number of bills to be considered by the Supreme Council, which would also be defined by this category of population. We want to create in society an atmosphere of special concern for those who have been deprived of the joys of life. According to socialists, this should be a genuine civil campaign. And it's very important that we don't leave the authorities outside. This is primarily about the State Committee on Family Problems, State and District Administrations, City Halls. They have something to work on, to create conditions for people who have felt guilty for most of their lives. We would like to be heard in various funds, especially in newspapers, radios, and television. It is important to create an atmosphere of moral support, to warm these people with the warmth of our hearts, with daily attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u171	In exchange for the speech of the deputy Malinowski, a national deputy, Stepan Bulba, is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u172	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine To me, which is my voter, Smyrnov Vladimir Ivanovich. His next appeal. "Smyrnov Vladimir Ivanovich is addressing you again with the help of an extension of his era. In order to report to the Attorney General’s Office, the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kyiv district of Poltava is closing my case. The Henprosecutor's office seems to have closed the question. In Poltava, there was a new outcry of harassment in the decision to close the case. At the same time, I was given the difference between this decision and another investigation. Otherwise, I can't call it harassment, abuse and corruption after four closures. Please help to print my address on the newspapers or to publish it in the Supreme Council. " I'm doing my electorate's request. "Dear Svetoslav Mihajlović, you are asked for the protection of Ukrainian citizen Smirnov Vladimir Ivanovic and his family, including two young children. One of them is a childhood invalid. For six years now, since 1997, we have been harassing and terrorizing officials of the Poltava Authority, who have abused their authority and, in excess of their authority, have fabricated illegal criminal cases, thus fulfilling the order for the destruction of the private enterprise and the social destruction of me and my family. My repeated complaints, attempts to reach you, appeals to the High Council member Bulba Stepanović in your name remain ineffective. In all cases, complaints are sent under the signature of the Deputy Chief of Administration of the Czernikov Office to the same officials who carry out unlawful and corrupt acts, i.e. your environment and subordinates are trying to frame or divorce you, as you said, in one of their interviews on television, hiding the true situation on the ground. The main reason for the case is the firm's winning in the Supreme Court of Civil Affairs. Without any evidence, the Poltava Meatcombinate decided to use the procurator's office to find out the truth, which instead of presupposing innocence to investigate, took on the principle: enough charges. Through falsifications of documents, the artificial creation of evidence for the transfer of the case from civil law to criminal law, coercion, fulfilment of civil obligations with huge contract losses, and the prosecution of Sachenko is bringing a case against me.” I want, there's a lot of information here, of course, I won't be able to just publish it. I want to make this letter official again, and I ask the head of support, that the Attorney-General receive it as my turn of opportunity, in order to finally protect a man who is found innocent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u173	The word is given to Mikola Eutyhievich Melnik, Sozpartia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u174	Mikola Melnik, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnichtina Dear Chairman! Deputies! There is no more immoral action in the world than war. True, an aggressor always has and will suffer a loss of immorality. Ukraine’s immoral vote yesterday was also joined by the American coalition because of its immoral state, its immoral status as a neutral state caused by the destruction of a powerful Ukrainian army until yesterday to be so proud. Now we are truly experiencing the loss of spiritual, physical, and material losses with America, the American Coalition. And there's no motivation for justification in this fight. In this vote, the stupid parliamentarians cynically voted in favour of the declaration of war against Iraq. I was not touched by the slave vote of the deputies who are now in the golden coalition of the President's Administration. These MPs are in suspension, not in force for the time being to make any decision on their own. For example, the leader of the Agrarian Party, Catherine Vaschuk, was never concerned with morality, for she is a dependent servant of today’s regime. What about Yushchenka? Our people should have known long ago about the great. The Pharisees' hit parade pillows of their voters. Yushchenka is said to be a great politician. That's what they say, but that's not what I think. And big politicians always live a double immoral life. Yesterday’s speech from this rostrum was on the verge of a moral breakdown, and his vote did not know the limits of the pharisaic immorality. Is Yushchenka’s crime against the people of Ukraine smaller than Kuchma, against whom Yushchenko is fighting? And now I'm going to move on to the country's problems. It's a long spring. Please don't interrupt. I don't have much time. Has Yuchenko not voted? We know how he voted. The brother voted. Don't interrupt. I don't have much time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u175	Then you'll take the line. There'll be a replica. Let's finish the speech. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u176	And now I'm going to move on to the country's problems. The long spring adjusts the spring work. The farmer waits for the results of the wintering of the wheat. But even warm air does not counsel the soul. The fuel in the price went up. The prices went up and the minibar went up. Prices for meat are down. For the past 12 years, a peasant has not yet paid such a low price for meat that he was planning to buy fuel, seeds, fertilizers. In the summer, 7 billion dollars were stolen from a peasant because of the low price of grain. Credits are given by banks of peasants on a tea bed and so forth. With a big bag at a six-month rate. Government, the National Bank is in no way able to decide that loans should be given for at least a year. Today, credit is given at 1.6 billion, and only 7 billion peasant grains have been stolen. The village will die - the government of Yanukovic will die. And a great disgrace will come down from the arena of today’s cynical immoral power. That's where she goes. But what is wrong with people? Unless those deluded by the dummies of these politicians entrusted them with their miserable fate. Parliamentary hearings, the meeting of agrarians with the President, brought only disappointment. It hurts the rest of us for disorderly power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u177	Vladimir Leonidovich Singer. Soccer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u178	Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelničina Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Dear colleagues! The Socialist Party of Ukraine has always adhered to the principle of the celebration of the law for the celebration of democracy. Without the rule of law there can be no democracy, there can be no respect for human rights. I would like to draw your attention to a national problem that has repeatedly sounded from this rostrum. Failure to execute court decisions, failure to comply with the decisions of the third branch of power. Ignoring the court's decisions on various issues in different spheres of social life is a gross violation of citizens' constitutional rights. And such a violation often has to do with an executive branch of power. Let me give you a few examples. Economics. For more than 6 years, the challenge of executing the judgment of the Hmelnicki Municipal Court in case 21203/A of 22 April 1997 concerning the limited liability society of Olympus continues. The set of documents on this matter exceeds all the limits allowed. About ten appeals to various institutions, leaving Ukraine’s Supreme Court unresponsive. Loss of budget as a result of Olympus's activities being paralyzed, composed of tax revenues, about 1 million dollars. And the worst of all is that the constitutional rights of people to property have been violated, and there are significant material and moral damage. This is the sphere, as I said, of economics. Now the sphere of politics. The same Hmelnicki City Court has made a well - founded decision regarding violations, including gross violations of existing legislation, in the course of the village’s village head elections to the Schumovtzi Hmelnicki district of the Hmelnicki district. Case 23737 of April 16, 2002. However, the decision of the court is ignored. And appeals to different authorities remain unresponsive. All of this is done under the cover of the head of the district government of Cimbaluk. This is the effect of the legislative branch of power. Please consider my request to the Minister of Justice, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u179	The word is given in place of the claimed Shuma of Igor Mikhailovich of the People’s Deputy Shufrich. Nestor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u180	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to take advantage of the right of replication, because the previous statements mentioned the name of the leader of the faction of the united Social Democrats, and I am authorized by this faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kravchuk Leonid Makarovich. In his speech yesterday and in his position, Leonid Makarovich made his position clear: We are against war by expressing the faction’s position. But the war has already begun, and unfortunately we don't have an impact on how countries like Russia, Germany, France, China do. And if people are dying today, and we have experts who are very few in the world who can help them avoid losing their lives, we have to do it. As to the involvement of my colleague Surkis before, in the charge of involvement in an org-crime group. We may criticize, fellow believers, we may not agree, but it is, at least, unfair to blame. Criticism, possession -- they have to be present in this room, but you can't blame your colleague without a verdict. Now, let me make a statement. Dear colleagues! In recent times, individual political forces have been trying to accuse the Social Democrats of making a crime situation worse in the Zacarpathian region directly. The stubborn interest of the noted forces was understood in Zakarpat. They also understood and selected the line of conduct -- the oppression of social tension and the destabilization of the political situation in a particular region, both in general and in the state. However, such a line of conduct cannot be taken lightly by the parliamentary faction of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party. [[united]] We express our deep resentment about this, we appreciate such actions as deliberate political provocation, and in which we claim that any crimes committed in our country, regardless of the locality, any crimes committed against man, whether it is a deputy or an ordinary citizen, should first of all receive a legal assessment. There is no need to make political dividends on such matters. Social Democrats are deeply convinced that not only can all political parties but they must unite their efforts to fight crime. As far as Carpathian is concerned, we would like to bring to the knowledge of the Ukrainian people’s deputies the real state of affairs in the criminogenic situation of the region. Thus, in the last two months of the year in the Zacarpathian region, not only has it been possible to stabilize the criminogenic situation but it has been greatly improved in some ways. In particular, the total number of crimes reported. I'm sorry, I had the first line. In particular, the total number of reported crimes decreased by 12.6 percent. There is a positive trend in reducing global crime. Crimes have increased from 78.5 percent to 85 percent. 89 crimes of public crime were discovered against 85 in the same period of the previous year. All murders, robberies, and serious bodily harm with fatal consequences have been solved. A number of measures have been taken by the relevant services and units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zakartat region to counter the illegal circulation of weapons and ammunition. In these cases, 83 criminal cases have been committed. Taking into account the industry’s orientation on the forest sector, crime in this direction is under special caution in the IMF. Yes, during the course of the crimes, 46 beneficial crimes have been identified. And last year, during this period of 32. Based on what has been taught, the MP’s faction of SDPU(o) urges all the political forces represented in Parliament to focus on their direct responsibilities of lawmaking and to stop using political provocations. Primitive accounting for crime in both Zakarpat and Ukraine will not be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u181	Lilia Grigorovich has the replica. Please give us a minute and we'll take our chances.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u182	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters, in today's debate, the name Victor Yushchenka, members of the "Our Ukraine" faction, has been repeatedly removed. And it came at a very false angle. Regrettably, the great rulers of the United Nations Security Council proved unable to counter the threat. What led to both those who wanted to attack and those who had pacifist moods was unknown, but in the end all their impulses led to the bombing of Baghdad at 4: 00 a.m. We have two ways out: to pray to God, or to pray, and to offer a hand of help. The question is, To whom and how? Apparently, it's just to pray and stay away, it seems that's not true, because Hemingway said, "Don't ask who the bell's ringing, he's calling after you." In view of that, I believe that, unlike, let's say, the position of Germany, where, on the one hand, it was very true and correct, just as Ukraine was opposed to the war in Iraq, but after 9 hours of sitting Parliament before the bombings on Baghdad gave permission to send a battalion, indirectly supporting, indirectly, the possible war, the Ukrainian Parliament did so after the bombs were dropped and there were casualties, and in addition to prayer and compassion and humanitarian assistance, we directed the hand of help to the real world, because the world is globalized because war is already coming. In view of this, I read an interview with Yuri Onichuk’s van, who says: "We're not going to fight, we're going to help." These are the people who are leaving. I would like to say this: Dear friends, lying gives birth to lies, lying gives birth to war, including the one that began there, in Baghdad. What right and how do you, fellow socialists, have the right to say that Yushchenko voted, or Peter Andriyovich, or Viktor Andriyovich for the direction? Because I've got a name vote in my hands, and that wasn't it. What are you building on the lie? War is not true. On the lie you are building your political campaign. Surrender! Because in addition to one prayer, another hand of help can be offered. By the way, I want to say to Ivan Sidorovich Bokom that I voted in favour of the leadership of this battalion of President Kuchma, your ruling. So let's be honest, there's a war in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear friends, we'll risk it. Today's workday is over. The replica. What is the point of the reply? She didn't call her last name. She mentioned it, answered it. Dear friends, the next day we begin, sessional, April 1st on Tuesday at 10 a.m. The secretariat shall be given an assignment. I didn't hear. She said no for the Socialist Party. Ivan Sidorovich, in answer, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u184	I, my dear colleagues, have something to say. Lilia Stepanovna spoke here and said that Viktor Andriyovich did not vote in favour of the battalion. But Viktor Andriyovich voted in favour of the battalion's directing agreement. And that's basically the same thing. You can talk about different things. But for ratification he called it. And that's what he said yesterday on Freedom and on TV about help. Help Whom? Not hypocrites. By whom? At the expense of the poor Ukrainian people, you want to help a great state, and you want to notice? Please go and keep an eye out for yourself. Who won't let you do that? That's all I'm talking about. If you want Ukraine to be a sight for the aggressor, please note and be volunteers as well. We allow you to do that. And Victor Andriyovich, and everyone, please. We don't mind you being oblivious. But do not involve the Ukrainian people in this war, where ours is neither overcrowded nor overcrowded.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-21-m0.u185	The position is clear. The secretariat is requested to generalize all the proposals that were made during the 12 - minute period during the 12 - hour period, to form appropriate questions as suggested by the national deputies. The next sessional week opens on April 1st on Tuesday at 10 a.m. I'll see you later.
