ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:35]] Registered -396 A total of 396 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, on February 11th of the 48th year of life in a car crash, the National Deputy of Ukraine died tragically on February 2nd and the 3rd call by Anatoly Vasilovich Jermak. And on February 16, 63rd, a Ukrainian national MP died on the 2nd call of Tutin Vechaslav Aleksandrovich. Please honor the memory of our colleagues for a moment of silence. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Master Vladimir Yakovic. Let's welcome him to all kinds of finesse. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, queries, requests, statements and messages. Members of factions and groups, please apply. In the meantime, if there's no objection, I'm going to announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Is there no objection? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Stepan Cloud to the President of Ukraine about the provision of security assurances and the non-persecution of Vladimir Rizun, the pseudonym of Victor Suvorov, on his return to Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:03:52]] For-103 The decision is not taken. Mikola Pavluk to the President of Ukraine about problems in the management of the maritime sector of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of certain regulations by Mintrans of Ukraine. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:04:23]] For-86 The decision is not taken. Stepan Cloud to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the holding, under the chairmanship of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of a joint meeting of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Legal Policy to consider the situation that took place in the Higher Council of Justice as a result of her position as head, national deputy of Ukraine Sergio Kiwalov. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:06]] For-161 Decision taken. John Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the ignoring of the Ministry of Health to resolve the issue of financing the Crimean Research Station of Medical Plants. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:05:39]] For-170. Decision taken. Ludmili Kirichenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the capital repair of the red-leaf town's mining house, Lugansk region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:08]] For 155 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of compensation of pension benefits at the Korovograd sewing factory "Zoryanka". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:34]] For 135 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the liquidation of arrears on salary for former employees of the Suma Stock Exchange Company Humotechnika. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:03]] For-142 Decision taken. Ivan Tomić to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the exclusion of the local agrarian college of the Ternopil district from electricity supply. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:31]] For-183 Decision taken. Anatolia Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problem of granting benefits to teaching workers in rural areas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:56]] For-170. Decision taken. Mikoli Pavluca to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on problems in the management of the maritime sector in connection with the adoption of certain regulations by Mintrans of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:24]] For-95 Decision taken. Andrew School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the state of allocation of funds for the construction and use of the road in the city of Town of Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:51]] For-90 Decision taken. Alexander Masenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of ensuring the enforcement of the court's decision to collect damages from a small private company called SV for the benefit of the village of Orżica Poltawska oblast. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:23]] For-143 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reconstruction of the Korovograd music-dramatic theatre. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:49]] For-149 Decision taken. Olga Hinzburg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the sorting of the amount of benefits. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:14]] For-144 Decision taken. Andrija Verevski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restructuring of communications enterprises in the Poltav region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:37]] For-75 For -75, no decision is made. Sergey Shevchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of centralised funds for the treatment of children with a lack of growth hormone, which is provided by valid legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:07]] For-188. For - 188, the decision is made. Andrew School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the national programme "Foreign Ukraine" for the period until 2005. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:32]] For-88 For 88, no decision is taken. Hennady Rudenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the critical ecological situation in the village of Mikhailivka-first Kotilev Region in connection with the operation of the gas company ".process". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:07]] For-84 For 84, no decision is taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a justification for the purpose of exclusion from the list of enterprises not subject to privatization, highway pipelines and a number of oil and gas companies belonging to the State. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:40]] For 118 For 118, the decision is made. Jurya Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of the requirements for licensing the entrepreneurial activities of telecommunications operators by the government of the State Liaison Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:12]] For-143 For 143. Decision taken. Victor Borszewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crisis situation in Yellow City of the waters of the Dnipropetrov region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:40]] For-142 For-142. Decision taken. Sergey Shevchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conditions for the functioning of the Ukrainian School of the Name Gruszewski in Tbilisi. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:05]] For 114 For 114. Decision taken. Mikoli Krutz to the Prime Minister for setting up gas and electricity tariffs for residential utilities at the population level. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:32]] For the 180. For 108. Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of texts to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the state residences used by the President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:01]] For 177 For 177. Decision taken. Paul Matvienko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of the payment of benefits and compensation to the population of the People's Region of the Žitomir Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:28]] For a hundred and Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Samowidski, Shershun, Abdulin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the ignoring of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the decisions of the Committee on Environmental Policy, the use of environment and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and the formal approach to informing the Ukrainian National Deputies on this issue. I'll bet you a vote on that request. [[10:16:10]] For-157. Decision taken. Mikoli Noshchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the arbitrary promotion of Naftogaz National Company, Ukraine for gas prices for utilities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:39]] For 176 Decision taken. Alexander Zadrozhny to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the enforcement of legislation when calculating the average monthly salary for employees of the Chernobyl AES who were released after the state cut. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:12]] For 131 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Security Service, the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine regarding the prevention of the theft of state property, smuggling and other abuses at the Odessa Seaport. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:46]] For-151 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! Please, keep it down for half a ton, please. Mikhail Pavlovski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund, the Head of the Supreme Economic Court, the Head of the Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization concerning the non-admission of deliberate bankruptcy and the retraining of the Ingul Mikolai company, as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is strategically important for Ukraine's economy and security. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:33]] For-160. Decision taken. Viktor Borszewski - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the malicious opposition to the leadership of the State-Communication and the Criminal conduct of the national telecommunications systems of the C-32 Dnipro network of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:10]] For 122 Decision taken. Jury Artemenko, to the first Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on compensation for the transport of benefits to enterprises of citizens. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:41]] For 175 Decision taken. Alexander Colonyari - to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the mechanism for paying higher wages to staff members of the budgetary institutions in 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:14]] For 116 Decision taken. Jury Artemenko to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, regarding the size of single-time support for marriage and children under the age of 18 years of the dead Heroes of the Soviet Union. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:46]] For-123 For -123, the decision is made. Andrija Verevski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Kirilenko on the use of public budget funds aimed at financial support for agri-industrial enterprises in the Poltava region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:17]] For-73 For 73, no decision is taken. Vladimir Yavorowski to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the provision of information on the texts of the decrees of the President of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the state residences used by the President of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:49]] For-166 For - 166, the decision is made. Groups of National Deputies: Artemenko, Sobolev, Matviyczuk - to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the distribution of media-related articles by district government administrations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:19]] For 139 For - 139, the decision is made. People of Kirichenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the situation around the society with limited responsibility for September. [[Luhansk Region]] I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:48]] For-50 The decision is not taken. Sergei Sinchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, in view of his dissatisfaction with the response of the Luhansk District Attorney’s Office to the MP’s appeal to violations of tax legislation between companies. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:18]] For 115 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the response to the persecution by the Director-General of the State Enterprise Ukrnaftazcomplet of workers who do not support the management of the enterprise for the theft of state funds. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:54]] For-140. Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of law by the head and judge of the Babushkin district court of Dnipropetrovska. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:24]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Oleg Humanyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the removal of shareholders of former employees of the Zbrazyk sugar plant from receiving a share of state property during its privatisation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:54]] For 101 Decision taken. Michael Wolinz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the obstacle to the legitimate activity of the primary association with limited responsibility for Prom Product in the city of Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:23]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the illegal broadcast of medical sessions in Ukraine without the permission of the Ministry of Health. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:53]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Stepan Cloud to the Attorney General of Ukraine, reexamined information regarding the falsification of the official documents of the High Council of Justice. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:20]] For 155 Decision taken. Romana Zvarič to the Attorney General of Ukraine in connection with the dissemination of false information about the content of the speech of the National MP at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:50]] For-98 Decision taken. Panels of National Deputies - Spodarenko, Grzezhev, Boki, Nikolainko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Head of the State Committee on Forest Agriculture of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of legislation set out in the address of the public organizations of the region to the President of Ukraine, Head of the Ivano-Franco District and the District State Administration. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:33]] For 109 Decision taken. Viacheslav Koval to the Minister of Health, Ukraine’s Minister of Education, on the problem of incarceration in Ukrainian by medical professionals and pharmacies in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:02]] For 112 Decision taken. Anatolysa Moroza to the Minister for Emergency Situations and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in relation to the review of the renewal of documents by a member of the CHAES disaster. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:33]] For 134 Decision taken. Vladimir Yeshchenko to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, head of the Cerkas District State Administration regarding the preservation of pension benefits to pensioners for public transport to garden and urban areas. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:03]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure of officials of the State Executive Department of the Babushkin District Office of Justice of the City of Dnipropetrovska Court of Abuse. and the abuse of the official position of the holder. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:42]] For-136 Decision taken. Vasil Bartkov to the Ukrainian Minister for Emergency Situations and Population Protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster on the deployment of the emergency relief unit of the Ministry of the Valley of Ivano-Frankiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:15.]] For 112 For -112, the decision is made. Michael Dobkin to the Minister of Health on the threat of the tuberculosis epidemic in the Redwater and Cominternov areas of Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:43]] For a hundred and For 150, the decision is made. Mikoli Noshchenka to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine regarding the correct application of the rules on electricity consumption and the terms for the granting of benefits and subsidies in the Mid-Budgland district of Suma. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:16]] For-98 For - 98, the decision is made. Mikli Tomenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the obstacle to the performance of his professional duties by members of the Vyzgrad Police Department to journalists of the radio company Kyiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:45]] For-160. For 160, the decision is made. Viktor Borszewski to the minister of Ukraine for emergencies and for the protection of the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, the minister of ecology and the natural resources of Ukraine on the threat of environmental disaster in connection with the uncontrolled flooding of the New Deep Mine in Yellow Water. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:21]] For-163 For -163, the decision is made. Jury Karmazin to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of illegal detention in the service office of the Public Inspectorate of Bullets into Firearms of various calibres and the concealment of the crime by the management of the State Auto-Inspection Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Lviv Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:00]] For a hundred and For 145. Decision taken. John Kuras to the head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the elimination of the contradiction between accounting and tax. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:26]] For 112 For 112. Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for assisting the Baran region of Žitomir region in receiving state funds for the construction of social facilities. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:57]] For-129 It's for a hundred Decision taken. Valentina Savitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on assisting in the implementation of the Education Act in Novograd-Wolinski and Novograd-Wollin region of the Žitomir region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:30.]] For 131 For 131. Decision taken. Ukrainian and Russian national deputies to the President of Ukraine for abuse of office by the Attorney General of the Ukraine of Piscona. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:35:07]] For 122 For 122. The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Anatolysa Moroz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the appeal of Hanina on the question of the non-objective investigation of the criminal case concerning the theft of property and the abuse of office by the former head of the KSP "Ukraine" of the Mikhail district of Zaporez Region of Horoshun. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:57]] For-96 Decision taken. Groups of national deputies Teren, Turkinov, Seminoga to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the spread of dirty counterfeits directed against Ukrainian national deputies Yushchenka and Timoshenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:28]] For-188. Decision taken. National Deputy Terrena to the head of the Ukrainian Savings Bank Gribkov for the implementation of the 2002 State Budget in part of the payments of savings to citizens and the need to improve the organization of payments in 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:02]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for conducting an objective investigation of the organization of the murder of Georgia Gongadze, the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Kravchenk and his subordinates, who is listed in the list of militia personnel and published by Tetjana Korobova in the newspaper Grani Plus. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please, by the factions. Anatolysa Moroz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the appeal of Hanina on the question of the non-objective investigation of the criminal case concerning the theft of property and the abuse of office by the former head of the KSP "Ukraine" of the Mikhail district of Zaporez Region of Horoshun. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:57]] For-96 Decision taken. Groups of national deputies Teren, Turkinov, Seminoga to the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the spread of dirty counterfeits directed against Ukrainian national deputies Yushchenka and Timoshenko. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:36:28]] For-188. Decision taken. National Deputy Terrena to the head of the Ukrainian Savings Bank Gribkov for the implementation of the 2002 State Budget in part of the payments of savings to citizens and the need to improve the organization of payments in 2003. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:02]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Gregory Omelchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for conducting an objective investigation of the organization of the murder of Georgia Gongadze, the former Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Kravchenk and his subordinates, who is listed in the list of militia personnel and published by Tetjana Korobova in the newspaper Grani Plus. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:37:42]] For 121 Decision taken. Gregory Omelchenka is with the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the deliberate delay of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the submission of the Office of the General of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crime for the violation of the criminal case against the National Deputy of the People's Republic of Ukraine, Mirimsky Lev Yuliyovich, and the submission to the Supreme Council of an application for consent to bring him to criminal responsibility. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:22]] For 104 Decision taken. National Deputy Onischuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for dissatisfaction with the reply of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to a parliamentary request for discrimination against Ukrainian military veterans who were released and retired until 1994. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:38:55]] For-126 Decision taken. The National Deputy Anishuk is headed by the Antimonopoly Committee, the Head of the State Price Control Inspectorate on an unjustified increase in tariffs by organizations that provide cable television services in the Odessa region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:27]] For-123 The decision has been made. National Deputy Yeshchenka is headed by the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets on ignoring gross violations of Ukrainian law by officials of the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:39:58]] For 106 Decision taken. The National Deputy of the Blacksmith to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the number of violations of Ukrainian law by leading the AT "Demos" and the illegal activity of private entities working in its territory and under its cover. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:40:30.]] For-67 For 67, no decision is taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to make such a small announcement that a large part of your requests for content are not parliamentary requests, but requests, proposals, even accompanying letters to voter requests, that is, ordinary parliamentary petitions. This loses the authority of the request as a form of control over the activities of the public authorities, so the answers are not rarely the same, or not specific. So I'd like to take this into account and take it into account in our future work. Let's move on to the factions. Let's do the performances and then do the procedure. From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ivan Sidorovich Boki, please. Get ready for Calinchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u2	Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Ukraine’s regime, which has consistently disrupted agricultural production and rural infrastructure, has taken another step to exacerbate the social and moral situation in the countryside. So far, he's been closing down local hospitals, field and obstetrics, schools, residential workshops, kindergartens, veterans' houses, clubs, libraries, bus routes, now the turn to the post offices. On account of their nonprofits in many villages, the post office shuts down, and from this year on, the State Liaison Committee has transferred them to three working days a week. From now on, newspapers, letters, telegrams are delivered only on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. The paper comes to the peasants on the second, third day, it breeds confusion with delivery, complicates it, and the letters to their relatives go back more than 200 years in Kingdom Russia. Among the rural liaison offices and the peasants, the money of the state’s monopoly was deeply indignant. The villagers are deprived of the opportunity to make rapid use of the cost of postal and telephone services. The waiters were cut back on their hours and wages, but their load did not decrease. After all, in recent years, mail has provided the elderly and the sick with the basic necessities of the consumer cooperative’s network’s collapse. Now, therefore, mailmen who have given up their hard work for many years quit their jobs and fill the unemployed army. In many post offices, people have to pick up their own mail, and it's been here for weeks without movement. Retirement for the elderly has become more difficult. Despite the Constitutional Court’s approval in June 2001, the post office went into violation of Ukraine’s postal law and essentially wanted to force pensioners into bank services that were remote from rural areas. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine sees this decision as a deliberate violation of power over the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens, which aims to destroy the fundamental fabric of the Ukrainian village and destabilize social peace in Ukraine, transforming the village into a zone for secondary citizens of the state. The initiators of such innovations cannot help but understand the damaging effect they have had on the moral and demographic situation in which millions of people are hurled into humiliating situations. Socialist MPs, on behalf of millions of their constituents in the country, demand that the President and the government immediately stop the collapse of the rural postal network, take responsibility for the restoration of liaison offices based on the relevant law, and on the schedule of the post offices in cities and district centres. The shameful decision of the post office must be annulled and its initiators punished as those who compromised Ukraine’s good name in front of its people. This incident should serve as a lesson for all who pretend to be peasants and peasants by preparing for them the fate of pastures in their homeland.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u3	National deputy Kalinchuk of the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Please prepare Shevchuk Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, the first question I want to raise today, especially the important day before spring-field work for farmers. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement, the enforcement of decisions by courts in Ukraine relies on the State's executive service. Regrettably, there are some authorities in the executive service that do not act satisfactorily. The effect of the property described by the court’s decision does not take into account the interests of the owner in the choice of the buyer and the setting of real prices. Intermediate services from Easter on sale raise serious questions of a legal nature. Let me give you a few examples in the Odessa region that are typical of all of Ukraine. The basic assets of the worldwide inter-economic organization with construction costs of 161 thousand The bracelet is only implemented for 27,000. That's right. The auto-tractor technology was being implemented without auction, and the advantage was given to one firm, which valued it 6-10 times the cost of balancing. The "Osipovské" farm in the district of Frunzen described and removed 82 units of technology, including 13 tractors, three grain harvesters, and it was implemented by up to 43,000. That's right. Question: "Who sells property?" Who, by the way, appreciates it. In general, there is a trend where the actions of commercial entities are primarily carried out, including in breach of legislation, when property is described and realised, already dispersed among former members of the SAA and is currently on lease. In particular, 1,400 tons of grains were collected for the execution of decisions on commercial calls by the public administration of justice, and grain was made at low prices, exported without any prior consideration, and no accounting was made. At the same time, the state's decision on behalf of the House of Commerce to the Society of Progress in favour of the Mycolayian Rural Council was not implemented, and the local budget did not receive $57,000. That's right. In view of the situation that has taken place in agriculture today, the faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine considers it necessary to approach the decisions of the courts very carefully and in a stately manner, and according to a decree of the Supreme Council of 6 February this year to give a legal assessment of the actions of certain structures of the State executive service. Second, about human relations. As early as 2001, judges in Vishnevsky’s retirement, who lived in Lubashivsky Odessa, were recalculated the amount of over 1,500 dollars for life. Unfortunately, he died, but he never got the money. His 72-year-old wife turns to different institutions, and the car is said to be there now. I also personally referred to the administration of justice in the Odessa region and the Ministry, but the matter was not resolved. Indeed, high officials expect that God’s funds will no longer be received by law. Please consider my speech as a parliamentary appeal to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u5	From the faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, Sergey Volodymyrovich Shevchuk has the floor. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u6	Honourable National MPs, U.S. Attorney General Svetoslav Piscoun in the latest issue of the weekly "Twilight Week" gave an interview under the heading "Government". In it, the Attorney General noted that in due time the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health had created 200 companies that were operating with a license to sell drugs. Since there were only two secretaries of state working in the MoH, one who, as far as I know, did not have any claims, one who was former, or I, who had no comments, is the question of whose 200 criminal firms are unaccounted for. The situation is similar to the Odessa anecdote when one resident says to another, "Everyone says your daughter is a mess." And he says, "I don't have a daughter at all." - "Well, tell all Odessa about it." So I want to explain to you, dear colleagues, as well as all of Odessa, the next. First, the Attorney General is sometimes wrong. Second, the general prosecutor’s mistakes are important because they are public. Third, he is not prepared to meet with the media, he does not understand the meaning and weight of every statement and every word by the Attorney General of the State. Fourth, for the Attorney General, it is news of the President's assumption of the post of Secretary of State. I want to explain what is probably known to every Secretary of the Elder: the Institute of Secretaries was introduced to us at the end of 2001, and it had never existed in an independent and dependent Ukraine at all. So if anyone did act in contravention of the Criminal Code, he was in a position other than that of the Secretary of State, which was not introduced at the time. And the fifth. The Attorney General is quite superficial in his study of issues of concern. If he claims that after the cost of a license to trade drugs, the prosecutor's office has dropped from 300 dollars to 200 dollars, which is about the price of one package of modern antibiotics, and that after that, I quote, "The prices of drugs have naturally fallen," then I am obliged to explain to Mr. Piscon that the pricing process is more complicated than he thinks. Prices for medicines or their active ingredients are generally formed to cross the customs border of Ukraine, and illegal income for pharmacists remains there, outside the customs territory of the State. You, the attorney general, should be told about this by numerous law enforcement officers who are looking after Minchurt, twisting around cash flows, drug tenders, and the purchase of valuable equipment. I understand, and we all understand what they're doing, of course, just for the sake of state security. However, as a member of Parliament, I respect the office of Attorney General, so I do not want to recommend to Mr. Piscoon what term and how he should have publicly refuted his false claims on the pages of the distinguished newspaper "The Mirror of the Week." I hope that happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u7	From the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine is Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska. Prepare Gurvo.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. On February 12, this year, parliamentary hearings were held to commemorate the memory of the victims of hunger in the 1932-1933 years. Their preparation and conduct showed that it was important for some of the initiators not to understand this complex and controversial historical phenomenon, not to contribute to strengthening social morality and the responsibility of authority to the people, but to use the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rostrum to raise political accounts, to divert society’s attention from pressing social problems. Members of the Supreme Council Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, as well as other national deputies, were practically excluded from the hearing process. Today, the organization of hearings was initiated by a so - called orgcommittee, unknown to whom it was formed and with what powers, which consisted of people of one political orientation. It was this group of people who joined the organ committee who set up a hearing scenario, a selection of invited ones, and a list of speakers. As soon as the parliamentary hearings began, the national deputies were deprived of information about the list of speakers. The chairman of the committee and the Udovenko referred to the fact that the list of speakers was being prepared by the org committee, that it had been finally formed and was also overloaded. This resulted in a one - sided selection of invitees and speakers. As a result of these actions, the management of the content hearing committee did not respond to the stated theme: respect for the memory of the victims of hunger in 1932-1933. In relation to the above, we believe that: First, that parliamentary hearings about the memory of the victims of hunger of 1932-1933 did not reach their goal, did not become an event that consolidates society and deepens society's understanding of this tragic page of our history; Secondly, they showed that the practice of holding parliamentary hearings needed to be improved; Thirdly, the conduct of these hearings demonstrated disregard by the committee's board of directors for the opinion of committee members, which is determined by the responsible committee. In this regard, we believe that it is necessary to approve in the Supreme Council of Ukraine the procedure for preparing parliamentary hearings to ensure democracy, equal representation in the preparation and organization of hearings of all factions and political forces that exist in Parliament. Parliamentary hearings should be based on the level of representation of public organisations, experts, witnesses of various political, ideological, representatives of age, social, property, educational, ethnic, cultural and religious groups and regions. You and I are just about to hear a speech from the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, which in due course took responsibility for the reforms in the villages declared by the President. So today it is blasphemy on the part of this political power to act in defense of the deluded and deluded peasantry in Ukraine and beyond. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would also like to welcome today hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who took part on February 15 in the marches of peace, rallying, and polettes against the end of the war against Iraq. I want to congratulate them on their first victory. With the support of the public, the UN Security Council has decided to continue its mandate as UN inspectors in Iraq. On February 15, we saw once again that the consolidation of people of goodwill could be achieved that aggression would not be allowed. I congratulate you on this first victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u9	The People's Deputy Gurov of the People's Authority faction is invited to the presentation. Get ready for Michael Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u10	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Vadim Gurov, 32 constituency, Krivbass, People's Landing. Now it's the hour of Krivbass. There was a proposal to privatize Ukrupprom. True, they don't know how to do it, or immediately, the whole thing, 100 per cent or only 50 per cent, but it could be part of the operation. So if there is no clear strategy, if there is no purpose and no outcome, how can such a big deal start? At least it is necessary to adopt the Overhead Act, the Land Use Act and, above all, a separate Law on Privatization of Ukraine, if that is the case. Finally, we need to understand that Krivbass is the pearl of Ukraine, it is our present and future of our children and grandchildren, it is the foundation of our future, it is the 800,000th city. Metal will always be needed at any time and metal will not melt without iron ore. I don't want to be seen as an adversary to privatization. The point is another. And to what extent are we ready for this privatization, and can it have a positive effect? Today, GAC Ukrrupprom brings together all the remains of government shares in mining enrichment units that conduct open mining of iron ore, as well as another 100 per cent of government underground Krivbass. While the State has this wealth, it is possible to talk about the management of the mining and metallurgical complex as a whole, to deal with cross-sectoral balances, to regulate exports and imports of raw materials at least in a limited way. The vision of this may be different, but here we have the negro, the land we have is the same, and this land is called Ukraine. Any future owner of a privatized company will be able to address the issues of a single technical policy - land drain for new mines and careers, to understand what has been done over the centuries in the exploitation of the Krivoroz Basin. The answer is obvious, of course not! Because today, given that Krivbass is a single organism with the most complex hydrogeological and hydrotechnical conditions. Its work is provided by at least three state-owned enterprises: Krivbassrestructuring, Krivbasshydroprotection, Krivbassvod provision. We also allocate money for this work, including from the State budget. And I didn't happen to mention mined water. Because mined water is 30 grams of salt per liter of water. Already today, when the water is being drained from an overcrowded renegade and then the so-called river wash starts, the problem goes beyond Krivbass and figuratively, and literally because the land of Nikolayevsky and Hmelnicki district is affected. It's the best of our niggers who've turned into sunflowers. Today, everyone has a problem with the Yellow Water mine, where the emergency with the discharge of radioactive water has reminded us again of Chernobyl. The yellow waters are right next to the Horn of Curve.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u12	The Mayan mine, which is now preparing for closure, was also mined. I conclude my statement with only one request, a proposal, if you wish, a request. Once before making a final decision, we need to read it. In ancient court proceedings, there was a good principle: If you doubt it, abstain. I think that the ancient Romans still had fewer problems than we do today and let us not aggravate these problems. Please take this statement as a request by the Prime Minister. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u13	Mikhailo Alexiyovich from the Democratic Initiative Group is invited to the presentation. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! Dear Head! Discussions at tomorrow’s meeting on the attitude of the leaders of the law enforcement authorities to the request of the national deputies are essential. We should be self - critical of the fact that at times our petitions are not subject to the execution of the bodies to which they are directed. But there was little evidence of gross disregard for the statements made by the legislative branch by individual leaders. I recall recently when a colleague of mine at the Parliament of Anatoly Løvin came to me with the help of Attorney General Piscot to resolve the question he had addressed. But I also followed the letter. Conclusion one: if the chief law enforcement officer refers to the implementation of the People's Deputy Status Act, does he have the moral right to demand that others not be violated. What prosecutorial oversight might this be? I'm a former prosecutor, and I'm sorry to talk about it, about my new governor, but the facts are, and I'm going to tell you, I have to talk about it. Worse still, a similar attitude toward the questions of the national MPs is not uncommonly difficult to bear, which I do not have the right to avoid leading to the known representatives of the legislative body. In accordance with article 6, paragraph 4, of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, according to the commission of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, other deputies had to check the petitions of the citizens and some of the employees of the DPA authorities and the prosecutor's office regarding the abuse of the authority of individual law enforcement officers, if that is the case. As it turned out, a similar question was addressed to the Attorney General, to the Supreme Council earlier, but a proper solution was not found and could not be found, since he himself was not interested in abusing lawlessness. As established in the review, individual DPA investigators, who were recently managed by a current law enforcement officer, assisted by the prosecutor's authorities by a simple racket in the form of illegal removal of goods in commercial structures at a price much lower than their physical, actual value and implemented them through a structure called the Rekon Society, to which they were glued after its creation in the trade union organization of the DPA. Yes, in pursuit of the purpose of the incarceration of the Mersedes Benz, Toyota Landcrouser and others, when they entered Ukraine at the address of Prometheus, they were removed, and then, without judicial decisions, they were distributed among their customers at prices below two and a half times their actual value without forgetting themselves. Counterfeiting was allowed to cover up abuse, pressure on experts who had to make an expert report on the cost of cars, whose findings contradicted objective data. Similarly, a large number of sugars, gasoline, and other goods were illegally removed and implemented. Even to come within a legal framework, cases were unlawfully broken, arrests were made, and even arrests were made by supervisors. In time, the director of this firm, Galicic, and the accountant. Their illegal arrest was admitted by the court itself. In view of the fact that the reflection in the report on the facts has a direct bearing on the discussion scheduled for tomorrow regarding the attitude of the heads of law enforcement authorities to the appeals of the national deputies. Therefore, by handing over the guidance of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask that it be distributed to the national deputies of Ukraine, so that the materials reflected in it find not only their place in the closed session but also their place in the decision to demand the interests of the State and security.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u15	The national deputy Terrence, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko, is invited to the presentation. From Julia Timoshenko's block. Get ready for Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u16	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear colleagues, Ukrainians, Western Ukraine, and already in Kiev, a postcard was thrown into each mailbox, in which Yushchenko reportedly pours the dirt on Julia Timoshenko. The good people, the citizens of Ukraine, the card given is a dirty fake, it's a gross forgery made by the political forgers of today's government, officials near the presidential trough who fear that after the presidential elections, after Kuchma goes into political non-existence, she will have to be responsible for the robbery of the Ukrainian people. This is a fake presidential election. This is a falstart of lies, and these are attempts to dissuade the opposition. And now, you see, they're inspired by the Pitts with the properly hired people, they're already running on TV, and all of this is a system -- the Qutmin system. But we're used to the filth and immorality of power. And that does not call into question. It was like a parliamentary election, but there were fake "Village News" and "Evening News," and now these cards are colored, on offset paper, every few bracelets released for the money of the poor Ukrainian people, and they've been released to keep on teasing the people. Here's my document. The document, which shows who was ordering them to be distributed by mail, is in this document with signatures accordingly, says that it would indicate the term, take personal control, report for the distribution of these postcards. We were still making inquiries to the Attorney General’s Office, when false material was released, and false material was being printed. And now, again today, the Supreme Council voted in favour of sending parliamentary requests to the Bureau and the Prosecutor's Office, but the question is, Will the Prosecutor's Office be silent again by luring the faithful Presidential water into its mouth? I want to say that the example of the immorality of power is also that President Kuchma passed the second law that we passed here with you, the veto, he vetoed the law that we passed here -- the benefits of Ukrainian printing, the assistance of Ukrainian polygraph. Dear colleagues, we did the right thing by adopting these laws. Today, there are 0.9 books per capita in Ukraine. Even in Kingdom Russia, two books were published per capita. Today, in Ukraine, more than 100 million of us a year have been engulfed by Russian books that contain the Ukrainian trade market. US dollars in Russia. But the authorities don't need the book, the authorities don't need the truth, the authorities need people to be dark, because it's easier to steal from the fool and the blind. I want to say that the authorities won't be able to fight the opposition, we're going to stand one candidate and we're going to win the first round, and I think the Ukrainian people will win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u17	Eugene Lapin is a national MP from the European Choice Group. Please. Prepare Pinzenic Victor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, in the circle of parliamentary work, political debates and pre-election expectations, we should not forget the eternal values of our people, which must and must be constant and holy to all generations of Ukrainians regardless of age, social status and political preferences. Humanity is approaching a significant date -- 60 years from the end of World War II, and for us Ukrainians, the country war. This year the regions of Ukraine began celebrating the 60th anniversary of the liberation of their territories from the fascist invaders. The progress of this liberating war in the blood - entwined Ukrainian lands — the Corsonian hell — was horrifying. Rage, the storm of Carpathians, the liberation of Crimea, and hundreds of other victories are recorded forever in the history of our people. The nation that lost millions of better sons and daughters in this terrible war. You and I here represent all the regions of our country, with them closely intertwined our lives, our activities, our daily concerns. And to some extent, we are also responsible for its development. On February 145, 1943, the first district center of the city of Lugansk was liberated from the fascists. The “Regions ” party has already begun the process of carrying out an estaphetic of the liberation of Ukraine’s regions. We think it's the same thing as making it all-U.S. It will continue for two years until October 28, 2004, when the Carpathians were released 60 years ago. A watch of memory or estephet should pass at all locations, from the remotest village, to the district center. This is not about taking pompous action at the expense of government funds. First of all, there should be specific matters regarding the identification of participants in hostilities, widows of the dead, war veterans, youth work, obelisk care, brotherly burials, cultural and sporting activities, and other activities. In our power to make sure that our initiative is taken by the regional public, so that it is not done above, but dictated for the civilized, humane need of society to honor and preserve the heroics of its glorious predecessors. Similar actions help to consolidate society in the way of coping with national problems. The National Deputies of the "Regions of Ukraine" and the "European Elections" Group propose a draft decree for the conduct of an all-Ukrainian action marking the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the region of Ukraine from the fascist invaders for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we are addressing all the MP factions and groups, the political parties, all the state and public organizations, all the citizens of Ukraine, with a request to participate directly in marking this momentous event for the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u19	Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik is invited from the faction "Our Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u20	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. I'm authorized by the faction "Our Ukraine" to make a statement of the following content. We, the deputies of the faction "Our Ukraine", find that the onset of the oligarchy regime that is now taking place in Ukraine is increasing to Victor Yushchenka's block. At first, the authorities tried to pressure and blackmail the MPs to destroy our faction in parliament, then they set up an information blockade. But the faction of "Our Ukraine" both existed and existed. And people have learned to read between lines, to hear and see things that are not said, to make faithful conclusions. In their insurmountable rage, our opponents resorted to even more dirty technologies. Yes, recently, a false open letter has been distributed across Ukraine to voters who seem to be the leader of our Ukraine. The main purpose of this provocation is to discredit Victor Yushchenk in public and create distrust of correspondence as the only way in our totalitarian state of communication with people. The faction "Our Ukraine" points to the scale of this provocative action, as well as the fact that big organizational and financial resources were involved in the distribution of counterfeits, including the state-owned enterprise "The Crucifixion". The organizers deliberately violated the law, hoping for the promised impunity. That's why the faction "Our Ukraine" refers to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, demanding a thorough investigation into this shameful incident and a criminal case. At the same time, an appropriate appeal has been made to the court for the protection of the honor and dignity of Victor Yushchenk. The "Our Ukraine" faction calls for a speech at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Attorney-General, the head of the Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Transport and the liaison of information on the circumstances, customers and performers of this provocation. We reserve the right to use all the constitutional and legislative means of parliamentary activity to achieve the fastest objective investigation into the distribution of a false letter. The political council of Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine" will make appropriate decisions on the protection of law, honour and dignity by non-parliamentary methods and at the all-Ukrainian level. What we're informing the authorities, the political forces, the public. We are convinced that we will be able to defend the law and human rights, to make the authority accountable to the citizens. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, the Supreme Council has registered a draft decree to investigate the spread of a false open letter from the head of the faction "Our Ukraine" to the electorate. We ask that on the day of the vote, on Thursday, this issue be included in the agenda and voted, the decision to create an appropriate group to investigate and inform the Supreme Council on this disgraceful fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who have applied to speak from factions and groups have been given this opportunity. Questions, suggestions, and comments that have been violated in your interventions will help to prepare appropriate assignments. Out of procedure, please. I see, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u22	Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, tomorrow is a very serious day; tomorrow we will consider meeting the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine to ensure that the Ukrainian People's Deputies exercise their powers. That's a beautiful thing we're going to be looking at, that's an emerging question. I am interested in the question, "Why should we consider this issue in a closed regime?" As a national MP, I ask you to put my fart to the vote now and spend tomorrow in open mode, because we, the people's deputies, have nothing to hide. May all the people be told how they comply with the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, the requirements of article of the Constitution of Ukraine, as they think they continue to serve Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u23	Please, Gennady Yochipovich Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! The representative of Alexandrovska criticized the organization, especially the content of the parliamentary hearings devoted to honoring the memory of the victims of the famine. I wouldn't want to excuse myself because she was expressing her faction's position. And indeed, much has been done to ensure that these hearings are held at a high organizational level. The committee has done much to ensure that these hearings take place. Since the committee was not sitting because there were parliamentary holidays, an organizational committee was formed that included all those who wanted to participate in the committee’s work. That's the first one. Everyone could not get the word for the performances, but Simonenko, Oliynik, spoke. Three Communists made their appearance. This is more in percentage than their faction in Parliament. And all the feedback was very positive about the organization and the content of the hearings. And so I reject any charges against these hearings of the great tragedy of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's get down to business on schedule. The draft law on State and Municipal Property Delimitation is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the State Committee on Land Resources of Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovich. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich. Briefly, if I may.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the requirements of section 9, paragraph 4, of the Final Provisions of the Code of Land, the State Commission has developed a draft law on the delimitation of state and municipal property, which is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The purpose of demarcating state and municipal property is to define land that will be allocated to state and municipal property and legal measures to determine land boundaries. According to previous estimates, the state will receive an additional 1.2 billion dollars a year, without reducing local budgets. At present, some 30 percent of the land in large cities is uninventoryed. The legal basis for the delimitation of state and municipal property is laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on local self-government, and local government. In Ukraine so far, unfortunately, the land of municipal property has not been defined. Articles 83, 84 of the Code of Land define what the land of government and municipal property is. More than 30 million acres [30 million ha] of land are owned by the state. Of these, more than 7 million hectares are inhabited, accounting for 24 percent. It is enough to point out that the countries of the population have the most potential to fill the budget. The delimitation of state property will create territorial conditions to ensure national sovereignty, the security of the country, environmental measures to implement state-wide programmes and self-sufficient development of territorial communities. According to previous calculations from state land to municipal property, a large part of the land in populated areas and individual land areas outside their borders should pass as a result of the delimitation, which will be determined on a case-by-case basis. The bill lays down the legal framework for the delimitation of state, municipal property, which will allow for a substantial strengthening of the material and financial base of local self-government provided for in article 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The main features of the bill are the following. Basic principles have been laid down for the transfer of state property to municipal property, free of charge, the creation of conditions for protection, sovereignty and national security, first and foremost, the State, legal and natural persons, the integration of local and national interests, environmental security and environmental sustainability. The list of lands remaining in state ownership and those that may be transferred to municipal property by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, taking into account the public’s interests, and these lands are defined by articles 3, 4 of the bill, agricultural land, mining, and so on. Authorize the executive authorities to determine the boundaries of the land of government property and order of work. Issues have also been addressed regarding the issue of the right to share property of territorial communities in the transfer of land of state property to municipal property. The costs to be incurred at the expense of this work are government, local budgets proportionally to the portion of the land of the property. The transition to market-based approaches to managing socio-economic development in the country called for the need to implement new approaches to land policy, primarily in population areas. Thanks to this law in determining municipal property for the land of the territorial community, the settlements will not only develop engineering and transport, environmental and social infrastructure, but will also appear in the market as equal partners who will use municipal property as a financial and economic basis for their activities, without diminishing the role of the State. The responsibility of the territorial communities for land conditions will also be increased. At the same time, the State can focus on improving the efficiency of land use, which is of public interest, and on the territorial basis of national security. Ladies and gentlemen, please approve the proposed draft in the first reading and, after appropriate elaboration with regard to the additions and proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies, make it operational as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Five minutes. Light up on the board, please. Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u28	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I have such a question. A lot of voters are turning to us, it's really a problem that concerns all of the reform, and it's about delimiting the consideration of the issue of land ownership. I'll tell you what, here's an example. It may be necessary to make changes to the earth’s code; it may be necessary to regulate legislatively the ownership of the lands that are now established by colonies. Wessel district, for example, the Wessel district of Zaporozhye, colony number 8. About 6,000 hectares were taken from the so-called rubble, and there were people working at the same time. That was six years after they were cut off. The people alive there did not get the land. Not much, they tore up the peasants. Some got half the village, even more, and others didn't get it. We need to settle this question. People are already taking the pitchfork and the administration are storming, and they're coming to see me. So how do you think this is going to work out in order to solve the problem? And it's not just the Zaporozhye region. This is a problem all over Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u29	Thank you for the questions raised. These problems are not just in Zaporozhya. There are both in Kirovograd and in a number of areas where state-owned enterprises have been created, namely, state-owned land that serves closed businesses. But those citizens, the agricultural workers who work in this company, live in rural areas, they have the right to obtain a medium-sized piece of pie from the current Earth Code with good will, of course, the heads of the administration and the heads of that institution. We are today providing practical assistance in addressing these issues in the Kirovograd area, in Zaporozhye, but today the working group is formed and has worked out proposals for amendments and additions to the current Earth Code, and this rule, which you just announced, we will extend it because it deserves attention and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u30	Sergei Matvienkov, please. Group "European Choice."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u31	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, I have a question for you. I'm right here in the middle. I have a question for you. It doesn't matter if you see me or not, it's my main question. So it's the first one. Well, there's no doubt that there's a need for land division, and I think there's no doubt about it, and there has to be a mechanism. But I'd like to take a closer look at this problem. I have nothing against peasants in any way, but the mechanism that arises today and the way of developing the Earth Code. We gave the peasants land for free. Yeah, that's right. But for some reason, all the mechanisms that we continue to use. For a hundred years the enterprise on this land has been spared, the land has been redeemed, the split-up mechanism has so far been allocated to the pay budget. Don't you think there would have to be a zero option here, if, so to speak, section -- there are no questions. Why did two subjects of the work they were doing on earth today not come into existence under equal conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u32	Thank you for asking. I'd like to divide your question into two parts. First. The draft law lays down rules and procedures for the delimitation of state land and the transfer to municipal property. This work must be done on a free basis. That's the first one. The other one. Based on the Land Code, which sets out the rules for free privatization of land that are entitled to free privatization of citizens. In agriculture, it's the average share of pie that's made up of any other population. To maintain a supportive personal farm, to serve a house, a garage, a garden society. There are rules in the Earth Code, but you mean privatization of land privatized by enterprises. Today, as a result of the Code of Earth, the following standards and usages are completed on January 1, 2004. Remuneration, i.e. rent, and corresponding use for state and municipal enterprises and property of natural and legal persons remains. So all of these standards are written out. The question is that we do this job. One moment, please, the question is that we should be able to accept with you more quickly, your fellow national MPs, your friends, the draft laws that are already in the Supreme Council. This is, first, a draft land market law and a draft law on land and land assessment. They're so necessary to solve the many problems you're talking about. So these laws write out the procedure, the standard, and the order of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u33	Oleg Belarus, militia faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u34	Please give the word to Eugene Ivanovich Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u35	Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u36	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovich. The faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, Eugene Kirilchuk, the Motherland Party. Anatoly Stepanovich, I have two questions for you. Well, first of all, there are councils under the code within the population. So why do you propose in this bill that in the city of Kiev, Sevastopol, there should be Kabmin in the cities of district subordination? Do you think the board sessions of these cities will work worse than any other person? And the second question is, what is the fate of the Trachtomir Nature Reserve on Dniper, where a huge amount of land is placed in private hands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u37	Thank you for the questions raised. I would like to return you to article 83 of the Land Code, which defines ownership of the land of the territorial communities. At the present time, why and why the bill for consideration by the Supreme Council has not been drawn up, that is, the land not transferred from the state to municipal property. Article 83 of the 84th Earth Code clearly sets out the procedure and regulations for doing this work. And what you're saying is that you have to make decisions in a session by members of a level, really, it says here that you have to agree with the self-government authorities. It's all foresight. Now, as you say, the reserve on the shore of Dniper. I only know one thing: that these lands are not privately owned. These lands are owned by the state, as far as I know, by the Forest Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u38	Vladimir Cherniak, please. Just for a little while, please, time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u39	Dear Anatoly Stepanovich, the land of state and municipal property should be divided. And, of course, that's the law you need. But questions arise. First of all, why are there two bills: government and MPs, what is their alternative? Secondly, how does this bill address the problem of land under state-owned enterprises? And thirdly, there is still no complete clarity about budget comings. You said 1.2 billion dollars would come to the State budget, and every year, and there would be no decline in local budgets. How can this be accomplished? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Kirilovich, I spoke to the people's deputies and I said the following to you, it was literally three weeks ago that, unfortunately, there was a work in Ukraine today in the community to conduct an inventory and a monetary valuation of 46 percent of the total amount of work to be done. If we had enough funding today, which is the delimitation of state and municipal property and provides for additional revenue from the state and local levels, we would do it quickly and qualitatively. More than 1.2 billion a year, more than 4 billion each year. That's what I'm saying at the local level. And as for the alternative, I'll give you some help, please get to know and understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u41	Time's up, we've moved on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u42	Thank you, distinguished national deputies for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u43	Anatoly Orzhachowski, you had something from the procedure, please. It's very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Hersonian. I have to ask you as the Head of the Supreme Council. The question that is being considered today is the delimitation of state and municipal property in time, but we think in the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government that the main thing in preparing this issue and making recommendations should be our own committee of expertise, because who better to know the situation in local and executive authorities and local self-government bodies. That's why we're making a proposal, what's already happened, recognized as the main reporter today, and those who are preparing, the Committee on the Problems of the Agro-Industry Complex. On the second reading there is a request to be sent to the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u45	For the report, please refer to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stanislav Telisforovich Staszewski. Please, Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u46	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. For the first time in our country, the introduction of municipal property to the earth is an undeniable fact of recognizing the role of local self - government in the exercise of power by the Ukrainian people. As indicated in the Constitution of Ukraine, article 142: The earth, like other natural resources, is the material foundation of local self - government. The need for territorial communities to acquire villages, villages, cities, land rights requires the adoption of the Law on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property. The bill that we are introducing for your consideration consists of three chapters and contains 16 articles. Unlike authors who consider land delimitation to be an act of transfer from state to private property, we stand for the fact that the distinction between state and municipal property is to make appropriate arrangements for the distribution of state ownership land on land of the territorial communities and the land of the State, and to determine and establish in nature the boundaries of land of state and municipal property. [[Article 1 of our bill]] The scope of the law is clearly defined so that it does not extend to the regulation of land transfer relations and the acquisition of land rights under civil law agreements. The allocation of land to both state and municipal property is proposed for us to be conducted in full compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, as defined by the Ukrainian Code of Land, the Property Law, the Law on Local Self-Government. At the same time, land containing immovable property belonging to the State and to the territorial community is fully related to the land of municipal property. The mandate of government authorities and local self-government authorities to separate the land of state and municipal property in our bill is the corresponding provision of the Earth Code. This is the way in which the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the district government administrations agree with the district and district councils decide to separate land from the population. Within the population, however, these issues are dealt with by rural, rural, city councils in agreement with relevant government administrations. On land-limiting land-forming areas whose areas are completely bordered by land-cadastral documentation. If the boundary definition materials are missing or the existing boundaries do not match the land-cadastral documentation, land-forming is carried out according to the land-removal rules in agreement with owners or users of areas. Land demarcation is carried out according to projects that will be developed by state or municipal land administrations on the basis of agreements with executive authorities or local governments. Projects should be approved by sessions of rural, rural, urban, and district councils. The right of state and municipal property to land is borne out by acts the form of which must be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides that the financing of land-disaggregation costs is carried out within the population at local budget costs outside the population budget at the expense of the State Budget. It is suggested that disputes arising from the delimitation of state and municipal property are settled in court. The bill that we are introducing for your consideration is fully supported by the convention of local regional authorities. They appealed to the Supreme Council and to each national MP separately with their appeal. The main scientific and expert office has also supported this bill and is proposing to accept it as a basis. The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government also recommended that it be accepted as a basis. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations carefully considered our bill and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council should be adopted as a basis for the first reading. And the proposals that were made to take into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Please, Your Honor, support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u47	Please sign up for the question. Five minutes, please. Please point it on the board. Alexander Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Please tell the honourable reporter how much your law takes into account the following questions. We now have 500,000 acres [500,000 ha] of land under military rule, of which 280,000 hectares have been leased — that is, they don't need it. On each military 2 hectares of land, aircraft may fall, and rockets may fall on buildings that are never equipped with weapons and that are specifically engaged in land. It's the same thing with railways, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So that's how much land has been distributed by the departments, and they're already trading this land, especially in cities, when we know in the center of the city the area is pretty expensive. And there's no reflection on that question, I didn't see it in the bill. Whether your bill will take into account the issues of order, the revision of certain lands, and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u49	I thank you for this question, it's complicated, but it's very important. Yes, his decision was found in our bill, which is proposed for consideration. But it is also decided in the Codex earth. It says that public property objects, such as those in the military section, are directly involved in the process. Lands that are under sociocultural objects, housing and other nonessential purposes should be transferred to the communal property of the area where the object is located.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u50	Valerius Assadchev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u51	Thank you. Stanislaw Telisforovich, I wanted to ask Danilenko in principle, but it just didn't work out for me. It seems to me that now there are two bills trying to resolve the specific contradictions that have arisen in real life. I mean, the state is pulling on itself, it's trying to separate the whole thing, the communal property on itself. Although it seems to me that the problem here is much deeper, and it lies in the legal regime of the land of public property, where it has to be clearly recorded that there is a land of the state that is the land of the community. Now, once again, which organs are going to do this directly afterwards. But the fundamental thing that comes out of the Constitution, in my opinion, is this legal regime. And in my opinion, it's not written in either nor in the other, unfortunately, the law. I'd like you to say exactly what you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u52	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. I agree with you. But we should go back to article 13 of the Constitution, where formation is clearly defined. As far as drag is concerned. I wouldn't ask that question. Why? Because according to the Law of the earth, five more laws are needed to improve land relations. [[Chapter 9, fourth paragraph]] One of them is the divisiveness, the exclusive distinction between state property and municipal land with the fact that both the State and those governed by municipal land are to make decisions in accordance with the laws that are now in force. There it is decided by the authorities. As for local self - government, the matter is decided by the council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u53	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u54	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Stanislaw Telisforovich, you know, I don't want to repeat here the remarks or warnings of a colleague of Blackjack who said that we have the hall again, we demonstrate the imperfections of the committee's legislative work when similar bills are introduced. In my opinion, your bill 2098-1 is more acceptable and has the prospect of being voted in this room. I have two questions to ask you about this bill and this bill regarding the final clauses. Take a look, please, at the end of the line: how about we continue to work out the law with lands and land that, at the time of the adoption of the law, are in municipal property? That's the first question. And the second of the final positions. What do you think is the purpose and possible legal consequences of the experiment that we're going to be offered regarding land delimitation in Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk and the city of Sevastopol?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u55	Thank you. The point is, the last thing I'm going to start with is with the important issue of land and land affairs, which is strictly in accordance with the Constitution of the Supreme Council, is that experiments are not being conducted properly. We know what the experiments are doing, all the more with the ground. With regard to proposals by a bill without a unit, there is also an appropriate grain, and just when we considered this issue on an agrarian committee, we agreed that all that there was when we worked on the second reading, we would include it in the bill, so that in the second reading it would be a workable document.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u56	Thank you, Stanislav Telisforovich. Time's up. The co-report invites the head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Vladimir Alexiyovich Lechchenko. Please, Volodymyr Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u57	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters, I emphasize that I will now report, not my own opinion, but the opinion of a professional committee on agrarian politics and land relations. So we've got two bills on land delimitation of state utility property. One draft law from the Cabinet of Ministers and the other from the national deputies of Ukraine. Of course, if they had come separately to be no different, the Committee on Agrarian Politics, after discussing one or the other, would have made it mandatory for the Supreme Council to consider it as a basis. But in view of the two bills that came, we were put before the choice that the Supreme Council would make. The point is that both bills correspond to the subject to which they are addressed according to certain flaws and shortcomings. There is the conclusion of our chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, both in the first bill from the Cabinet of Ministers and the second. At a meeting of the Agrarian Policy Committee, we practically accepted all the comments. Here are some of them. For example, the draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine identifies the issue of delimitation by transferring land from state property to a utility. This is already defined by article 117 of the Ukrainian Land Code, so this would not have to be dealt with in this particular bill. The project does not take into account the fact that certain principles of land delimitation to the municipal and national boundaries already laid down by the Ukrainian law on local self - government in Ukraine. Article 3 of the Government’s Bill on Listing Lands in Delimitation, which remains outside the State, needs to be brought into line with the Earth Code. This very list of laws listed by the Cabinet of Ministers includes a much larger number of lands than the Ukraine Code of Land provides for the relevant case. In particular, agricultural land is included here. Article 6 of the bill provides that ownership of the land of the territorial communities arises after the boundaries of the land have been approved. However, this is contrary to article 125 of the land code, under which ownership of the land is created upon receipt by the owner of the document, which bears witness to the ownership and registration of the land. Indeed, the Committee on Agrarian Politics and Land Relations also raised the question: What was the purpose of the experiment envisaged by the Cabinet bill to be carried out in the cities of Kiev, Dnipropetrovsk, and Sevastopol? As a result, many of the provisions of this draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine could be used in furthering the law passed by the national deputies because the Committee on Agricultural Policy had just stopped to propose a bill for consideration by the Supreme Council to be adopted on the basis of a parliamentary bill. Although there are faults here, they need to be taken into account when working on the second reading. For example, it would be appropriate to determine that the law does not extend to the regulation of relations related to land belonging to the common property of district councils and district councils. And in the Final Positions, which has already been said today, it is necessary to establish the thesis that the land areas that are owned by the municipal property at the time of the adoption of this law will be transferred to the state property only if they are not in conformity with the Ukrainian Land Code. Based on all of this, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations proposes to the Supreme Council to accept as a basis the project submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which follows number 2098-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Please sign up, five minutes. We're almost out, we've got 10 minutes to talk in general, 45 minutes to go. Please, Nightshenko, Mikola Nightshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u59	Dear co-reporter, I have a question of such a plan. At the very beginning, you said that both bills answered the question. At the same time, there are a number of violations of the already anticipated actions regarding the demarcation of the Earth Code, the basic law, the Law on Local Self - Rule. I'd like you to do a background check. Please tell me, what was the purpose of these contradictions? To create tension.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u60	I said that if every draft law came to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations separately, and there was no other, of course when we discussed it, we would have suggested to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take the basis, then to work on both of them in the second reading, referring to those precisely, well, no infringements, the inadequacies laid down in the Cabinet Bill. What happened to the Agrarian Policy Committee was two bills, and I don't think there were any contradictions, there could have been both three, and five, and seven, and so on. Our mission to the Ukrainian National Deputies is to determine which project is the best, and of those other projects that will not be accepted as a basis, to take better positions, so that the law will come out in a way that meets the requirements of Ukraine's legislation and the needs of our electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u61	Please, Cherniak, next Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u62	Volodymyr Vasilovich, I'm back on the issue of efficiency and quality of legislative activity. We agreed that the Cabinet of Ministers was working with the appropriate committees in the drafting phase. I don't know any cases if he did, and then a lot of questions could be answered. Next. We agreed that the committee should be defined, not just taking out two, three, five, ten bills into the session room, but deciding in a professional way what would be the basis. It is even better to arrange for a harmonized bill. Here, our committees, including the committee I work on, have been blamed in front of the session hall, we pass several laws, bills, we waste time. Just now and almost all the time, only your speeches have been discussed. I mean, do you think you could have avoided the situation and prepared a harmonized bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u63	I think, of course, you could avoid that and determine, as you say, one bill. And I have to say this. In recent times, the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations has just established closer relations with the government of Ukraine, with committees, and with ministries. And right now, we've got some work to do on the drafting of the bill that's getting better. And I think you'll see it soon in this session room. But with regard to these two laws. The Agrarian Policy Committee has clearly identified itself and is proposing, on a basis, the second, the MP, number 2098-1, and it's not as if there's something we want to say that was defined here. And one more thing. If two bills or three, five, seven, have come to the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council will consider all, the committee will not be able to dictate which law to withdraw and so on. We proposed, I think the voting session will be decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u64	Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u65	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. Dear Volodymyr Alexiovich! No doubt you are our partner on land issues. But I have two short questions for you. We realize that the Law on Local Self - Government says that the councils handle land issues, provide land, and so forth. [[Article 43]] At the same time, the Codex earth delegated these powers to local administrations today, and they seem to agree with the councils there. But we do realize that in a session for the sake of democracy and openness, more than when the administration distributes the land. Would it not, for example, lead to our having a waste of land? And do we not need to make changes to the earthly codex? And the second. What do you think on the committee about the few million people who have been missed, the former colporteurs who have not received the land? It's our estimate that 3 to 4 million people who spent 40 years in colospas have gone somewhere in the last days into irrigation or trading and so on. As for the first question. You know, it's the second bill that the people's deputies passed that's more consistent with the question that you asked. It is there that the councils will be entrusted with greater authority over these lands. As far as the Ukraine Code of Land is concerned, I have a special attitude toward this bill. The corresponding additions and draft changes have already been submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We will soon consider them. Well, as for these people, who were missed for some reason or other, it's a matter of some kind governed by valid legislation. There's land of supply and all that sort of thing. But the question is really that we need to think about it, including in the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. I think we'll be able to answer these questions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u66	Have a seat, please. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u67	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Constitution, in particular article 13 of the Constitution, requires that the earth, its nadra, atmospheric air, water, and other natural resources within the territory of Ukraine, natural resources, and the continental shelf are subjects of the property rights of the Ukrainian people. And when you're driving through Ukraine today and you see fenced forests that are already in possession -- this is a question for Anatolia Stepanovich Danilenko -- it has to be stopped once and for all. This is particularly true of the Kyiv region, where Mr. Susuha works as governor. - Well, I hope it won't take long to work, but there's a big question, how does the Constitution work? The Constitution provides, in particular in 142, that the material and financial basis of local self - government is movable and immovable property, the income of local budgets, and the land. And so today, when I look at this bill -- on the delimitation of state and municipal property -- I have a lot of questions, a lot of questions for the government bill. The Kabin suggests that the decisions on delimitation should be taken by the authorities, while in Kiev and Sevastopol and the cities of regional importance, it is proposed that only the Kabmin do so. The question is, Is there no advice in these cities, or is there not enough professional competence to resolve these issues? What can be done to explain and justify the issue when it is proposed that the legal rights of the state and municipal property should be waived? After all, why is there no regulation in the government bill on land delimitation? Once again, it is proposed that this be determined by an instruction approved by the State Commission. To what extent will we address the issue of land ownership with instructions? That's why I'm supporting the second bill, the bill of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. I also don't understand why the Cabinet of Ministers is ignoring the constitutional rights of the local self-government authorities and the Ukrainian Earth Code? In particular, I would like to pause on a separate issue regarding the city of Sevastopol. There are features in the identification of the city’s territory that is in fact covered by forests and rural areas. Obviously the way out here is, the way out is in part two of article 140 of the Constitution, which says that the characteristics of local self-government in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol are defined by individual laws. In this law, it is necessary to provide for the specificities of Sevastopol as a basis for the adoption of a bill by the MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u68	A break of 30 minutes is announced. After the break, Bespali will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u69	Dear friends, we are continuing our meetings. The representative of the "Our Ukraine" faction Boris Jakovicz Bespalij is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u70	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, the fact that there was no previously communal property in Ukraine is a completely new form of ownership, it turns out that the law on this subject is more than timely. And the question that will come before us on Thursday, when we vote, is not whether to pass a law on the separation of public utility land ownership or not. Which one? And I think the main thing for us right now is to define that criterion, that dry residue that distinguishes these two bills, because everything else can be corrected in the second reading. And in my opinion, it is a question of who separates or, if you will, divides the earth. Under the Cabinet bill, executive authorities throughout Ukraine and within the population, and outside the population, are doing so. According to the MP’s Bill, articles 8 and 9, the executive branch divides the land outside the population, of course, by agreeing with the appropriate level of council, and in the local councils in the locations of the population. Now, this is the principle, which is why the two bills, regardless of our keen desire, could not be brought together at this stage, I think. It's probably just like the rest of us. And you can see that from the position of the profile committee. On the question of MPs, I also support Bill 1298-1, all the more so that it fits both the letter and the spirit of the Constitution. I think there's no big differences in the bill here, but there's one danger, and so I'm going to let myself go to the left factions in this case. I understand that if these two bills were to be chosen, the left ones would vote in favour of the MP's bill, but in a number of cases they do not vote on laws related to land issues at all. And here again we have this theme of bruise in our hands, or crane in the sky, or vice versa. I think that if we vote in favour of this bill, we will get cranes in our hands in this case, because we get full municipal property of the territorial communities of cities and villages, and full state property that no one can question. And one more thing, I want to support the speech, the replica, more specifically, the representative of our committee on State Building and the local government of Orzhachovsky on the subject of the law. This law does not deal with the use of land; rather, it empowers government authorities and local authorities. So it's a law of authority, so it's a subject of knowledge to the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, which I would like to take into account on behalf of the committee when we take, hopefully, a decision to adopt Bill 1298-1 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention and confidence in your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u71	Nightscap by Mikola Petrovich, "Trouble Ukraine" faction. Get ready for Bunny Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u72	Dear Chairman, the honourable ones are present! Nightshenko Mikola Petrovich, Hard Ukraine faction. I support the views of those MPs who today have come forward in support of the MP's bill. What causes such action? The study of the first bill will be a long time, and its analysis has shown that there are substantial differences with conceptual norms that are defined by valid, active legislation and the Constitution. Well, the main thing, for example, is article 9 of the new bill is too general, it doesn't give complete information about the procedure for the appropriate distinction. And today they're talking about procedure. If only it was a procedure! Because, for example, article 84 of the Earth Code clearly defines which land cannot be transferred to municipal property. The new bill doubles the list of such lands. What does this rule out in the process of work? Conflict between local authority, executive power and self-government. The question is also raised that includes the meaning of the organization of land-distinguishing work, land-transfer work, and land-building. And that's the principle: it changes the context in general, the approach to who will separate who will make the decisions. If the main land law, the Earth Code, is the authority of the local government or the council, all of this is now passed on to the executive authorities. It's a fundamental question. And now by procedure. I'd be inclined to base a bill that doesn't have these differences. Then there's going to be an operating space to analyze: maybe make some changes to existing legislation. But this will be done consciously, in a balanced way. And it's going to be a follow-up procedure, not a removal procedure. We know how hard it is to remove what was already adopted in the first reading, even under the procedure itself. I say today for a reasonable approach to this, and I propose to take, on the first reading, the approval of a bill that has a "-1", or a bill of parliament. And better yet, in the government bill, transfer, complete in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u73	I see. Thank you. Hare Ivan Alexanderovich. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u74	Thank you. Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Honourable National Deputies, the adoption of the Law on the Delimitation of Lands of State and Municipal Property, provided for in paragraph 4 of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Land Code. If we add that municipal property was introduced as early as 1996 in the Constitution, it is clear that we are late for the adoption of this law. I'm not saying that implementation of the law will significantly strengthen the material and financial base of local self-government. A simple but vital truth needs to be realized, especially for those who are concerned that the land will not be in the hands of new depositors and be used effectively. This truth is that the lack of legislation in the present conditions does not stop the privatization of the land, but it will turn this process into a shadow, lead to various abuses and ineffective use. There are no laws -- there will be instructions that fit only the interests of the public. That is why the Cabinet of Ministers did not rush into drafting this bill, which regulated land ownership. A similar logic is seen in the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and the question of the delimitation of state and municipal property. Instead of quickly drafting an appropriate bill and submitting it to Parliament, the government went another way, you might say, anti-constitutional. On August 1, 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree approving the so - called temporary arrangement for land delimitation. But in this order, it is futile to seek in detail a clear order of distinction. Everything was referred to to the commission of the State Commission to give instructions on this matter. Here the government acts as if there are no transitional provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land and 92 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the Law on the Distinguishing of State and Municipal Property should be adopted. We have two bills: one from the Cabinet of Ministers, the other from the People's Deputies. What bill should be preferred? In my opinion, a bill submitted by the people's deputies is better. First. A bill of national deputies regulates a much broader circle of relations than a government bill. It's different. If a government bill proposes to determine the powers to separate land by executive authorities: the Cabinet of Ministers, local government administrations. In addition to executive powers, the bill of MPs confers such powers on villages, villages, cities. Third. The National Deputies Bill sets out in more detail the order of land delimitation and the financing of work related to this activity. I'd like to draw your attention to the deadlines for doing these jobs, ladies and gentlemen. I'm very afraid that it's been six years, and actually nothing has been done on the line. I'm afraid that won't happen again. Therefore, in the transitional positions of the bill, the deadlines for this work should be very clear. If that's not the term, there's not going to be that distinction. So, I propose that we base the bill on a bill that's being drafted in accordance with the main scientific and expert management's comments, and we can use some of the government's bill to improve this bill. So we need to adopt this bill, we need to adopt this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear friends! We're done. I wanted to give the floor to Anatoly Stepanovich Danilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u76	Thank you. Article 8, I'm sorry, I'm referring to John Alexanderovich, and I'm determining, if within a populated area, that's the decision of rural, rural, urban councils. Just a minute, please, it's all set. But essentially. Article 8, please read. But essentially. The concept of the bill, which was presented by the National Deputy of Staszewski and the National Deputy of Vaschuk, is quite different. Today, according to the Earth Code, 83rd, 84th article treats what is state land, what is municipal property. And here's the concept of this law in the next, which is given by the people's deputies, which is passed from municipal land to state land. There is no land of municipal property today, there is a land of state, private, physical, and legal persons. As a result of the earthly code of articles in the second chapter of the Codex earth, the right to use and manage local self - government is given. That's why we need to support the government bill. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u77	Anatoly Stepanovich, of course. Thank you for your position. Regrettably, the committee offered a twenty - five - minute discussion on the subject, although we all understand that land affairs require much more serious treatment. I'd like to note and add a commission to the two committees, because it's extremely difficult for the two committees to deal with these complex misunderstandings and still come out in an agreed position so that we don't have buttons on very difficult issues. Thank you to all participants and let's move on to the next question. Draft Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. [[2025 and 2025-1]] The committee proposed the following procedure: a reporter for Rudzikowski Mikolaiovich, co-reporter of Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. The protocol for the report is 10 minutes, to answer the question to the reporter - 5 minutes, for the co-report - 7 minutes, to answer the question to the co-rapporteur - 5 minutes, to discuss and make a decision - 15 minutes. By procedure? Please, National Deputy Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u78	Matvienko. Alexander Alexiyovich, I'm talking to you, I think it's worth combining two reports to the two authors, and then one report to me on these two bills from the committee. And the answers to the questions, both to the rapporteurs and to the co-rapporteur from the committee, as appropriate. And discussion. So we're going to give a little bit more time to discuss, saving these two bills time for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u79	Matvienkov, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I understand that the drafters of the bill are, of course, afraid of criticism because they will not be criticized. That's why they took the wrong person to the committee, Anatoly Sergeyevich, 15 minutes just to discuss the bill. That is why I would suggest that, at this time in the Hall, the rules of procedure should be exhausted and that we should speak on this issue, since this is very, very much so, a fateful bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear friends! Nicolanca, from the place, and let's sum it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u82	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich! Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party. I support the importance, the particular importance of this bill, and I propose that at least 15-20 minutes be added to make sure that even factions can say what they think about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u83	Dear friends, will there be any comments? We're going to make some changes to the proposed rules right over here, and we're going to increase it by 15 minutes. Do we have a deal? It's a deal. And we agreed that we're considering these bills in two to allow Matthewnka to take a position that will allow us to compare both bills. The first reporter, Mikola Mikolaiovich Rudzikowski, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u84	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Several times we have considered a similar bill on elections on a proportional basis has been supported by this bill several times, but we have not achieved a successful vote. Now this bill, introduced by me and MP Melniczuk Valentin Vasilovich, we would like to inform you and the voters about the substance of this bill. The bill proposes to hold elections for 120 days in a single national constituency. There are also 225 territorial technological constituencies created during this period. Election committees are formed by representatives of parties and political blocs, the leadership of the territorial and district election committees is determined by drawing proportionally for each party or block represented in the electoral process. The role of observers is elevated. Financing. The proposals put forward are serious in terms of changing the funding system, there is one cumulative account that can be used to fund an electoral campaign in order to control the legality of these funds and the appropriateness of their use to finance the electoral campaign. And second, it goes to 225, or in every territory, one calculation account that can be used to finance an electoral campaign in this area. Why? If we're going to run a proportional election, we're not going to have majors who can quickly finance any of the other measures in a district or district, but we're going to pay for it from the central meeting at the village club of Stepanovka Ternopil district, well, it's very difficult to organize. Next. There is a 500 - 000 - dollar mortgage, considering that it is not a very long deadline for a campaign to be held. No electoral foundation limit. Why I'm focusing on these very financial issues. We were tasked with drafting a bill to move away from black electoral funding, that is, that all payments, all expenses, go through accounts and electoral funds, and be accounted for. Next. Many deputies, especially the majority, opposed the adoption of this law, supporting it in essence. It is meant that the majors feared that after a while, there, a year later, elections would be again on a proportional basis. We have established that this law will enter into force on June 1, 2005, after which it will be decided that the Supreme Council will not be able to stop its work a year before the elections. The prosecution procedure has been improved. Because during the last election campaign, you saw that the final decision was an appeal court, although famous lawyers and even representatives of the Supreme Court claimed that the decision was not quite correct. Therefore, it is possible to sue all decisions taken by lower courts in an order of oversight before the Supreme Court. There is a very clear vote and vote count that will virtually make it impossible to falsify during the election. The positive thing, I think, is that this bill will also allow for representation from each party and bloc from all regions of Ukraine. So the party and the bloc will be able to express their position, let's say, all of Ukraine's territories, and to some extent the representatives and regional and social groups of various parts of Ukraine, which will have a positive impact on the consolidation of Ukrainian society, which can't provide any major electoral law. It guarantees the right of the electorate to express his position and thus to have his representative in the Supreme Council. What does that mean? The proposed alternative may lead to voters in one district voting and having no members in the Supreme Council. In another district, there were two or three deputies from the same constituency. This could lead to society’s mistrust in such an electoral system. And so the proposed bill is an integral part of the evolution of our electoral legislation, to which society has confidence. That is to say, it will be another step from fifty percent of the election to the Supreme Council under such a party system to one hundred percent of the voting system. Please, if you have any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u85	Yes, sign up for the questions. Let me explain. Nigger, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u86	Dear Mikolayovich, of course, this bill has long been knocking at the door of parliament and accepting it and it is in the context of political reform, this bill. I think we're finally going to get the right majority here to vote for it. I was really impressed by what you said that this law should inspire the confidence of our constituents. And that's the main question right now -- the trust of political parties and the trust of MPs. If he has such confidence in him, he will be accepted. I'd like you to say a few more words on this point, especially in the context of the regional dimension, that it doesn't deny the regional aspect, but it combines itself, because there are MPs who are more difficult to go to major districts, and to remove them, I'd like you to add some more arguments about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u87	Well, I would still argue for this bill, going beyond your question. After all, opposition, and Alexander Moroz with representatives, a group of authors proposed a change of power in the Constitution. The President announced the transition to the parliamentary-presidential republic, i.e. almost the same. Declared both by opposition and by authority. In the context of this adoption of the Law on Proportional Elections is an integral part of this process -- change in the system of power, because if it goes from executive to legislative, to the Supreme Council, the level of responsibility of the Supreme Council and the creation of a majority, a stable workforce that has a specific line and that forms and forms its policies from a political point of view rather than regional interests, is a very important component of this process. And so the adoption of this law is to lay the groundwork for the stability of our state in the future, taking into account the declared opposition and the power to change the system of power. As for the representatives of the regions, of course, the headmistress allows local elite representatives to be practically guaranteed to be on the Supreme Council. But we're going to lead to the fact that the regions of Ukraine will represent only the Donetsk region, if by majority, the right parties will represent 3 Western areas, the Socialists will represent Central Ukraine, the Communists of the south and east of Ukraine, which will lead to brutal regionalization. We cannot establish, given the changes in the system of power, such foundations in future political processes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u88	Mikola Mikolaiovich, tighten up, please. Kalinczuk, faction of the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Mikolayovich, indeed, is proposed to hold elections for a proportional electoral system that should stimulate political party development. But I do have something to do with this. And don't you think we should pick up this 4% barrier above 5 or 6%? That's the first question. And the second question. Does it not seem to you that there is a violation of citizens' personal rights if you look at part of article 53 of the bill, which states that "if a private house has been granted to conduct a pre-election public action, a pre-election campaign of one party, the owner of this house has no right to refuse to grant it under the same conditions of another party" is his right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u90	The principle of private property, which I understand is your faction, tells us that someone who owns private property has the right to manage it in his own right, except for what is regulated by the laws of Ukraine. And so, as you propose, as the Supreme Council will vote, so will it. As for the level of the barrier. We had a serious discussion on this issue at the Socialist faction. But my proposal was not to raise the barriers to allow parties on the verge, including those who now have factions in the Supreme Council, but did not go through as parties in the elections to the Supreme Council, so let's say monopolize the electoral process with a number of constituencies and parties, but to allow for a wider representation of Ukrainian society in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u91	It's a faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u92	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party, Hersonian. Mikola Mikolaiovich, please comment on this situation. So if you look at central television, let's say we see a lot of, you see a lot of, you know, they show the work of individual majority deputies. The MP helps out by opening the school, and the computer class teaches, and there he treats the sick, and so on and so forth. And the more such deputies appear. But it is paradoxical that Ukraine is getting worse and worse. The MP works better - Ukraine lives worse. What's the problem? The problem is, of course, there is no collective responsibility when a senior MP has worked and there is no political power behind him. The same will come to his place again. He solved his internal problems financially, came second and so on, and so on. And the party system, it seems to you, paints a lactus paper that paints every political power and gives responsibility forever, as this party did, as it did the pre-election program. That's your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u93	From my point of view, it will indeed increase, as the responsibility of the national MP, but also the responsibility of those political forces that went to the Supreme Council for the announced programme and steps after, let's say, the achievement of victory and the creation of a faction in the Supreme Council. Because the question, in fact, is the responsibility of a majority member of the majority in taking one or the other, let's say that the programming position is much more difficult to track in general to Ukrainian society than it is to a political power. For example, it's very difficult right now to ask voters in any region, whether central or southern Ukraine, how your mayor relates to the ratification of the charter of the European speech, no voter will say how his majority would vote. But with regard to the party, given that they declare some of the software principles, voters can answer. And that's why we need to adopt this kind of law in order to bring the faction closer to the Supreme Council and the view of a social or social group that is voting for this party or the party block in the Supreme Council. And then there'll be the consolidation of society if we find the Consolidation of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u94	Question rules are exhausted. People’s MP Gavrish Stepan Bogdanovic is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Of course, the bill on the election of the National Deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we are looking at as the fourth in this parliamentary rostrum, should gather us all into the session hall, because it defines not only the normative provision of new elections to the Ukrainian Parliament, but it sets out the national model of part of the political reform of power that should lead us to the formation of an effective tool for the administration of the Ukrainian State, first on our representative level with you. And it is clear that the very concept behind which the electoral system is based should include not only a consensus between the political forces of the Ukrainian Parliament, but first, a consensus between the political forces of Parliament and Ukrainian civil society. Let's ask ourselves, "Who are we adopting this law for?" If, for yourself, by trying to preserve steel and already tested traditions of going to parliament, that would be an unfair answer. We are adopting this law, without a doubt, in order to accelerate the democratization of Ukrainian society, first of all, on pluralistic principles, the possibility of finding alternatives to political development issues, of building in Ukraine a party of parliamentary types that would practice, first of all, national interests in their political programmes; which, by declaring their programmes, would come with them to Parliament and could directly implement them in the creation of political coalitions that would assume responsibility for the work of the executive. The future model of parliamentary elections, which will be set out in our bill, is to pursue the main objective of finding a compromise of consensus with the Ukrainian State, where the role of the Ukrainian Parliament is absolutely decisive. Of course, when we talk about the bill, we set ourselves first -- to ensure national interests in it, and that's why it's fair in both professional and political terms. We came out of article 76 of the Constitution, which establishes a general equal and direct election right is that. The principle of democracy in Ukraine, which is enshrined in the Declaration of Human Rights, which was approved by the UN General Assembly in 1948. And I think it's this direct election law that led us to build this model. At the very beginning, I'd like to draw your attention once again to, as it were, architecture, the principle of the electoral architecture proposed in our law. When it comes to the election procedures that my fellow national MP Rudzkowski stressed, these procedures are practically consistent. Perhaps with some exceptions that are better either in one or another bill and are not essential and can be further developed in the second reading. For example, we propose that the barrier to the political parties of parliament be increased from 4 percent to 5, motivated by the fact that we need to create more serious political coalitions that could work as hard as possible with society, get more confidence and support from it, thus making it impossible for small-scale political parties, which, using one resource or another, I will still talk about it, have every chance of going to Parliament virtually without working with voters in the national section. We also suggest that the wage, let's say, political parties that go to the polls are equal to 20,000 minimum wage. We also believe that this will lead to the formation of serious major political parties and coalitions, that is, blocks, and it will allow, once again, not 30, 40 parties, but 5, 6, 7, which will necessarily try to have the widest possible national programs and thus lead their programs to a particular electorate. We also suggest that the parties that have won two and a half percent of the votes but have not gone to parliament should not overcome the 5 percent barrier and be able to return the money. And to everyone else who's got less than two and a half percent, that kind of money stop didn't come back -- it's a world experience, and it's going to mean that nobody's going to take this election lightly. The model of this law's architecture is that it's a law on a proportional basis, but instead of closed lists, we offer open lists. We have examined the experience of choosing similar models, such as those in some Eastern European countries, which have modified their electoral legislation, first in Estonia and Latvia, and have concluded that open lists are best suited to the interests of our national development, article 76 of the Constitution and voter positions, allowing for the unification of the interests of the parties and, say, civil society in the sole sense of our social development. Electoral open lists are formed by parties at their assemblies and conferences in 450 district districts. These territorial districts have a technological nature, and after the elections they are eliminated, so the elections are held in a single national multi-mandate district. Voters vote for a particular party that is called a ballot, but the difference between our law and the bill is that in this respect the ballot may be indicated, and this is not necessarily an insistence, a representative of a particular party that advocates the party. The main difference is to calculate the votes as a result of the elections, and they are voted on as follows. Voters vote in favour of a party, offering their sympathy, and the Central Election Commission calculates these votes by arithmetical mourning. Those parties that have overcome the five - percent electoral barrier are entitled to the corresponding quotas. And within these quotas, the electoral list of national MPs who go to Parliament and get a mandate is formed, not by a party, but directly by the Central Election Commission, according to the results of the elections. Thus, if a certain percentage of the vote was voted in the territorial district for this party, it is this party's representative, the candidate to the MP, who is entitled to be on that list, based on the rating of the votes voted for in the territorial districts. Of course, we understand perfectly that this system is, to some extent, the possibility of having closed lists when, in fact, only five leading leaders who are party members or may not be party members determine the face of the party for which voters vote. We consider Achilles to be the fifth model. I would like, given that I have little time left, to take a few concrete examples of this situation, responding to the previous speech. First of all, the alternative law expects, as it were, to come to Parliament and knock on the door. I'd like to say that he opened the door a long time ago, because in this law, there are MPs who are chosen for a proportional, rigid model of closed lists. So relative to the observation that this could lead to deharmonization with the interests of the regions. I want to bring you the statistics that we got from the experts, which is the next thing we're going to say on the electoral lists, the parties and the blocks that went into Parliament are elected to Parliament by an average of 73.5 percent of the people who have Kiev pencil. Only others have a regional permit. So let's say we take the block for our Ukraine and figure out that 74.65 percent are people who have Kyiv pen. Of these, 12 represent only regions, 8 represent a particular region in one person. I can get statistics like that on the "For Ukraine One" block. Eighty-five percent are kyans, barely representing just four regions and three of them one by one. You want to, and the Socialist Party is asked to call me, 63.63 percent is cyans, and the rest is not cyans. Only two regions. Excuse me, 8 regions. So the question of the regional sign, it's being taken off. It is our law that offers maximum representation from the Ukrainian regions. And in closing, I would like to express my concern about the findings of the science-expert administration, which, in my view, did not comment on this law professionally enough, because all of these positions they point to are either not provided for directly by this law, or clearly resolved in article 56. Finally, we have sent two bills of expertise to the world institutions and we have received a response from the International Institute of Elections and Political Processes, which states that the model proposed in our law is more consistent with the level of representative democracy and one that is more in favour of the Ukrainian electorate. With regard to another bill, it is emphasized that it has better procedures, which we agree with and are willing to work together if we can find consensus in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u96	Please sign in. Please point it on the board. Yeah, five minutes to ask. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u97	I see you, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u98	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine" faction, the National Movement of Ukraine. Reverend Stephen Bogdanovich! I refer to your excitement, not the tribune mentioned in the words "proprietary" from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is known that this institution of penance as a permissive nature has long been abolished in a certain city and should not appear in legal terms. What's more, today we're going to be looking at a bill on the state register of natural persons. But I wanted to ask you: have you done such a detailed analysis of the electoral lists, and please tell me, how many persons elected in one-mandom constituencies, as prescribed in their constituency, do I use your term "proprietary," and how many of them are prescribed in Kiev?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u99	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich! I'll tell you what I don't want to say, I'll tell you more precisely, 73.5 percent of the voters are kyans, if that works for you. And as far as major MPs are concerned, this is not a tact question, because they represent one region or another, regardless of what they do. It is these electors who are in the region who, in the competitive process, give these candidates the advantage of choosing them as national deputies. They know exactly who they're choosing -- Klukkowski, Gavrish, or some other national MP. And there's a big difference in that when a voter votes for a closed list and he doesn't know who he's voting for, and when he votes for a specific name, for a party, with a specific name, realizing that this person, although he doesn't live in this district, is a worthy high representative of this particular party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u100	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u101	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vaszczuk Katherina.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u102	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u103	Dear Stephen Bogdanovich! Your bill impresses me with many things, especially the ability of people to get to know those they choose better and the possibility of a greater link between MPs and voters. But I have this question: don't you think the basic flaw in the bill is two such moments? One thing a person can do in his district, and a party can't win -- and all of his work, and it's a very hard job, it's complicated, it's going to be nothing, it's just a person staying with nothing. And the second. Your bill, like the previous bills, and those that will report, is one very big flaw: they are totally not working on gender equality. Let's make it sound like the Supreme Council has a man, only 24 women, while 54 percent of voters have women. And all women's social organizations are proposing that at least 30 percent of women's representation in parliament be clearly recorded in all laws. This ideology has already been supported by our party, a party of socialists, and other parties. So, what do you think: Can such an ideology be supported by your bill? Thank you. To change the face of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u104	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u105	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. I mean, I'm in charge of gender policy, including election policy, but this is about our compromise with you, which we're going to sign in the session room. As far as my law is concerned, he creates maximum preferences to fight women for his rights, along with parties to convince voters. And as far as I know, you didn't fight in a major district for the first time, and you never knew defeat from men, which is what I wish you in the future. As for the first question, it is indeed possible that a candidate or a party representative was actively campaigning for his party. I want to tell you that this is a perfectly normal phenomenon. And the party didn't break the 5% barrier. Well, it's the price of party structure, the price of party choice, the price of party ideology, and it's a political and voluntary risk that each of us has to take. Of course, I would not like to say that a similar question is caused by our sense of protection first of all. I think the problem is that the national interests of building a party are parliamentary. And our struggle for these mandates is, as it were, a struggle for voter confidence. If they don't trust this party, that means we made bad bets with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u106	Please, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u107	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Please give the word to Joseph to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u108	Joseph of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u109	Stepan Bogdanovich, you've allowed an invalid comparison of those in Kiev, because if you speak after birth, there's no one in the socialist faction born in Kiev. So I'd like you to be more accurate here in your comparisons. I understand that you stand up for your law, and you can understand that. I'd like to ask you a question like that. The president spoke in favour of a proportional election system for the Supreme Council. You know when it was. You're a man close to the President, and you're joining a majority who seems to support the President. You understand very well that that version of the bill on the election of the people's deputies that you're proposing is not proportional, because it's proportional when they vote in favour of the list of political parties. If they don't vote for the list, they vote for the name specific, it's not a proportional system, it's a different modification of the majority system. Please tell me this is once again a conflict between the President and the majority regarding this law, whether we can somehow go to the President's concessions in this and make arrangements for a proportional system.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u110	Thank you. With regard to the first question, I have information regarding the regional representation of Ukrainian national MPs elected by the list of political parties. I was driving it. You can manage it, you can also take it online. And it's not my invalidity, it's an invalidity, maybe, that was programmed in the question itself. We, public politicians, should not be afraid to give any public assessment of the facts that have taken place. I said that some percentages of deputies are not prescribed, that is, prescribed in Kiev. I was corrected by Yuri Bogdanovich, and I answered that question as I understood it. With regard to the second question, I think it has to do with the fact that you have carefully read my law. It is in this law that it is the law of a proportional system where voters vote for a party list. But this list of parties is open in nature, and the elector can choose their sympathy in it, but give due respect to it by coming out of the party program, once, and the representative, the second. I don't see any problem here for discussion. The voter votes for 450 candidates from one party or another.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u111	Thank you, Stepan Bogdanovich, time is up. Thank you. Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko is invited to the report. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! Let me inform you of the decision of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government on the bill on election of Ukrainian national deputies. I want to point out right now that these bills don't have special money, unlike the ones we've already discussed, at 1017-2 and 1017-7. They have innovations that improve the organization of elections, and so for most people's deputies, I say again, they're familiar. And what we want to confirm today is that time has given us the opportunity to work on some aspects of the selection process, and we're hoping that the next hearing of these drafts in the session will turn a quantitative change into a qualitative one, and we're finally voting for one of these bills to be adopted as a basis. How did the committee consider these bills, vote? For a bill reported by Mr. Rudzikowski, a national MP, 14 votes were cast by members of the committee. A bill reported by Mr. Havrish voted on the committee by three national deputies. And we've been paying attention to all the factors, including I'm here to deny Mr. Gavrish about the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Unlike Mr. Havrish, I'd like to defend the profession of Science and Technology, and we think there are professionals there, and they've prepared their findings professionally. After supporting the project, implemented by Melniczuk and Rudzkowski. The committee believes that when preparing the bill for the second reading, it would be necessary to take into account the separate provisions of the Bill introduced by Gavrish, Jooff and Dashutinim, which improve, once again, the procedure for organising elections. What was the direction of the committee in making such a decision? First. Based on the national interests of the public, we all realize today that there is an urgent need to address the problem of the political structure of society, the creation of responsible powerful political parties. What is more, we want the President to state in Parliament this in his statement as an initiative for political reform to form a government. And if we want Parliament to form a government, then Parliament should be made up, I say again, really out of authoritative political, influential parties. To what extent do the bills reflect this goal, or how will they ensure that this goal is achieved? The law of Melniczuk and Rudzkowski deals with this problem better. The Havrish bill is dangerous, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under this bill, we can stimulate the process of creating quasi-parties of the kind of "The Winter Generation" that will seek not to build a party, but to accumulate regional authority and thus seek passage into the Supreme Council. It is clear that such a "salary" in the Supreme Council cannot be the basis for the construction of serious political parties. On the other hand, there is a danger of bidding on. For the brand of the weak party and led by it to "tulstosums." I don't think it can be denied either. Against this background, the argument made by the opponents of the Rudzkowski project, which seems to be turning parties into holding companies, when some poor people buy their place on the political party list, is an argument that's possible and objective and fair, but against the background of how to buy the district and how to buy the parties, it seems to me that this trouble is much less. Gavris's project opens up the possibility of voting not for a party, but for an enterprising businessman under the brand of the party. And let's not hide our heads in the sand. The elections in Chercas, the elections in Melitopolis should have convinced us already that this road is a road to nowhere, that authoritative parties under such a system can't come to Parliament. We hide or preserve the majority system in the coordinates or project proposed by Mr. Gavrish. In this connection, the second conclusion is that the possibility of counterfeiting and bribery is much greater in the project than in the Rudzikowski-Melniczuk project. What's more, if financial support for proportional law goes to the party and it's still going to open up the agitation for this political party, then the Gavrish project, that money goes to the seller's pocket or to the seller's pocket and we're diluting society, we're spreading in this society this Melitopolian, Church example. Third. As a serious factor in the impact of the elections, the administrative resources were also at the centre of the committee’s consideration of the two bills. I don't think it's hard to understand today that such a thing as an administrative resource is absolutely effective and active in the Gavrish project, unlike the project that Rudzkowski is proposing, and practice has already shown that. If we want to destroy or at least reduce the impact of the administrative resources, we have to support Rudzkowski's bill, which is what the committee did. Clearly, the practical majority system in the Havrish project provides much greater opportunities for administrative intervention. Moreover, there are a number of subjective shortcomings that violate the rights of the electorate. So for example, we know that in a few days this could happen, and in our country it's absolutely possible when under pressure or under intimidation, or under any other influence, a candidate representing a party is shot. In one day, the party cannot replace this candidate. They say there'll be a double. But a double can also be taken off successfully, and in this way we have a roadside situation where the voters of this district cannot vote for the party, because the candidate of this party is simply not going to be there. There are a number of other shortcomings. Now, as to what Gavrish said, he used as a principle of direct electoral law. I want to deny to him that a proportional system does not violate this principle. Now let's follow the analogy. What do we always think of as a bicycle? We have the practice of proportional choices. Let's spread it. This practice is now being applied in Bulgaria, Romania, Slovakia, Israel. The practice proposed by the Gavrish project has no clear analogy in any state of the world. Obviously, you should not invent your own mistakes; you should learn from the mistakes of others. The committee suggests that the rest of us understand that we have to break the virtual reality. If we are really for political structure, for the formation of political parties, we must support the bill that serves this purpose. If we're in charge of data conservation today, then obviously we have to follow the proposal of the Gavrish project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, is there a question? None. Yes. Please sign up for five minutes. Light it up, please. Stepan Bogdanovich Gavrish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, I will not talk about the limits of the tendency of your speech and subjectivity as the committee heads, since I have not heard any of the positions you have just expressed as the committee head. I think it's not entirely ethical in terms of your position in this respect as a person, it's true. But I'd like to ask you. On what basis do you claim that there are no analogs? I've given you examples. I'm bringing you an article in paragraph nine of the electoral law to the Estonian Parliament, where it says, "The candidates should be placed according to the number of votes they received." This is definitely the position in Latvia. What you were guided by when you concluded that this was nowhere in the world, as it were.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u115	Thank you. As far as my argument is concerned, although you insist on commenting, I'll tell you that I've generalized the logic that was at the committee meeting. And he had to inform his fellow national deputies so that they would know what the committee was led by without any claim to their own position. I didn't comment on her. Now, as to what you're saying, it's a practice. I'd like you to follow the language of the report. I said there's no pure design for such a system. As far as Latvia and Estonia are concerned, there is a mixed system. Part two, where there is not a common list, but a specific link to circles, is some kind of, well, similarity, but this is not the law of Latvia and Estonia, I repeat, Stepan Bogdanovich. And you can't help but agree. It's a mixed system. It's not just your project, I was talking about the cleanliness of the system you're proposing. It doesn't exist in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u116	People's Deputy Permanent, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u117	Please pass the word to Kruglov Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u118	Mikola Petrovich Kruglov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u119	Dear reporter, would you please tell me that any of the bills we've heard, including yours, needs to be amended to the Constitution or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u120	Thank you. There is no need for any or any other bill of amendment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u121	Sergey Slubenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u122	Sergey Slabenko, Volinsk region I'd like to ask you a question like that. You stressed that if this bill was adopted, it would be possible to bribe voters in the form that candidates would invest certain funds in the constituencies and thus help them to be chosen by party signs or by the party they represent. Don't you think there's a little bit of a contradiction here, we're looking at the same thing right now. Now there's no proportional system. However, there are political parties that are represented in Parliament, and there are examples of those political parties that have actually spent enough money on the media to invest through the media, including information about their activities, publicizing them. This is exactly the contradiction of the question for me: whether, let's say, the transition exclusively to a proportional system, or if it doesn't create the same conditions as the powerful media-owned parties, and they're going to be the winners. In doing so, I would like to emphasize, you understand, perhaps very rarely, who would invest in a political power with which he could not win together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u123	Thank you. As far as the media is concerned, they are now ruled by the authorities. And the favor of this power, and the opposition, by upholding a proportional law, would seem to be cutting itself out today. But what I'm saying is that our society has shown that it's the most politically mature than we can imagine, because political forces have taken on more than 60 percent. So there's something that needs to be countered. Now, whether it's a bribe or not. I want you to take another look at the election analysis in Chercas and the election in Melitopol. In Chercas, a candidate who was in the ranking didn't even get in, and by which resources, you know. In Melitopolis, however, a candidate who had never officially appeared. And that's why these are the problems that we have to confront today. On the other hand, it is clear that the law on a proportional basis, as proposed by Rudzkov-Melniczuk, is not perfect, and obviously we can move forward to the regional lists and to the mixed system. But in this particular situation, given the coordinates, I think it's both appropriate and most likely as another step towards, really, democratic choices.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u124	Yes, Anatoly Sergiyovich, thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. Please explain to the board who signed up for the performance. Dear colleagues, are we going to have a discussion in 14 hours, as agreed? Please, Yuri Carmazin. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u125	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. In particular, I would like to begin my speech with what the block "For Our Ukraine", which was discussed in the elections, was not: there was a block of Victor Yushchenka called "Our Ukraine." It's a little bit different, I'd like to do an analogy with Zaeda. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u126	I'm asking you to calm down, or I'll turn off the microphone. Be correct. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u127	Thank you, thank you. I didn't hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u128	That's all you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u129	That's how they insulted us! You didn't stop them when you said, "For our Ukraine." Now, about the draft laws. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have cases where there are still pending criminal cases, pending criminal cases, although I am aware of the direction given, following the falsification of elections. I'm addressing the Attorney General of Saintess Piscoon: there's a criminal case in Odessa, investigating the counterfeiting of those elections. Now, Mr. Gavrish, let you know, and a group of deputies: we had forged elections like they were forged in the Donetsk region in many other areas! So given today's directive, "the highest directive" is to stop the case and bring it here to Kiev. I don't think all the plans are gonna work. So in order for these plans and this scenario not to be repeated in the state, you have to go to the Melniczuk-Rudkowski bill, first. It's different. In order for the courts that have played a sad, black role in these elections not to continue to play a black role, we need to make changes to that draft section of chapter 12 that is in the bill of these people's deputies, and in parts 3, 7, 10, 13, 14 of article 83, part 3 of article 84, parts 3 and 5 of article 85, to throw these standards out of there, thinking that these are the norms of the Civil Process Code. And so to provide for a separate chapter 30-B of the Civil Procedure Code, a new edition to be developed in order for the courts to really protect citizens rather than be part of the execution. Because in many cases their decisions were dictated from the street of the Bank. And that was a prerequisite for shortening most of it there in the hall. You want proof in time. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as the majority struggled, including the blocks, and how people raced. That is what it takes to have a proportional system today. Although if you put your hand on your heart, I'm in the majority system, but not in this state, yet. The country ruled by President Kuchma is not a country that can make such a system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u130	Please, Stepan Bogdanovich Replica. You insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u131	Thank you. Too bad Anatolia Sergiyovich isn't in the hall. I would like to point out to him once again that he has been carelessly reading the electoral legislation of Estonia and Latvia. There's a proportional system, in one of the 11 multi-mandate districts, in the other five multi-mandate districts, but the election results predict that there is an open list that defines the Central Election Commission. But there is another question about switching facts. It's because of an existing election model to close the lists, let's say the team of the Winter Generation just got 2.3 percent of the votes. It is this system that will provoke regional parties and small parties that can win through various resources, including administrative ones. I also want to apologize to Victor Yashchenk's Block "Our Ukraine" for the wrong name.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u132	Eugene Gorenik, please prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u133	Eugene Hoornik, Volinsky Electoral District 89, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In the traditions of the Ukrainian people, it is common for us to choose our chosen ones so that we know who they choose and who they vote for. But in our country, there is a system that is capable of transforming any normal process exactly to the opposite. And we see this in recent examples. According to Geerkalo weekly, statistics show that for the current official majority of the Supreme Council, 11 million voters voted in favour of members of the opposition faction by 17 million voters. And when there's a further or major or mixed system with the power that there is now, this system is going to get even more complicated. Therefore, the task of electoral legislation is to ensure that the will of the people is poured out to its representatives in order that the majority voted for by the people, both at the national and regional levels, be represented in government. Then we won't have a situation like this, for example, in the Ivano-Frankiv region, when 75 percent of voters voted in favour of the "Our Ukraine" bloc, and there are representatives of the former "For the One Ukraine" bloc with fewer than 2.5 percent of voters. So we have a combination of both electoral legislation to the Supreme Council and regional electoral legislation, which also needs improvement. We have two bills that are not being considered for the first time in one or another revision. I would like to give some examples of the application of the bill, which represents the deputies Gavrish and Jooffe. The point is that they will lead to the situation that we had in the election to the Supreme Council in Melitopolis, Chercas, and other districts. They're absolutely not warning the case that happened with the candidate for deputy Jir, who was removed from the registration two hours before the election, and there was no way to compensate for it. They can lead to a situation where the leader of the constituency, for example in Kiev, and the leader, in fact, has to fly in the canopy, get fewer votes than anyone ever will, who will fly on the periphery might not even go to parliament at all, not to mention that if one wins a district election, one may not go to parliament at all. What is more, it is surprising that by actually taking part in the major elections, a person ceases to be bound to the district. So I propose to improve Rudzkowski's project, Melniczuk, by filling it with really gender-specific requirements and rejecting the Havrish project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u134	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, please. You don't? Mikola Tomenko. Get ready for Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u135	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." , Dear colleagues! It seems to me that in this discussion, which has already stalled, there are a few things that need to be said in order not to defraud the Ukrainian people and the President who advocates political reform. If we're in this room saying that we want to carry out political reform and that's what the President wants to do, including, we need to understand that the election law is a test and a principle of political reform. How will we now vote in favour of the law on parliamentary opposition and most of it, when, for example, we have a majority or mixed election. What are we talking about? What parliamentary majority of the opposition will be made up of natural persons of national MPs? There's no such thing in the world. What we are now offered by the majority faction. I mean, we have to say right now: the election law, we put everything down and we vote for it. If we adopt a law on elections on a proportional basis, then we understand the logic of how government forms, how the system of executive power forms, how the system of local self-government forms. Well, how are we going to carry out political reform when Eugene Gjornnik spoke in his district of Ivano-Frankov in favour of "Our Ukraine" voted 75 percent, and the authorities formed "The One Ukraine", which was voted for by 2 percent?Oh, my God! What are we going to talk about?Oh, my God! What political reform? So I think we need to postpone everything and talk about what really everyone who wants political reform needs to start with the law on elections on a proportional basis. [[And I want to.]] If we were to live in a rich country and a democratic country, I would support Stephen Gavrish, because this is a principle for a democratic country. As long as we live in a non-democratic poor country, I support Rudzikowski and Melniczuk, because we have to write laws, not for American experts, but for the real country. And if American or Russian experts highly praised the Gavrish bill, it's definitely bad for Ukraine. So that's what we need to take into account when we talk about the election system. Party lists. I fully agree with Catherine Vastuk that we need to write, of course, if we have a normal level of political culture that has failed to produce party lists, maybe write it in the law on political parties, let's say we have a public discussion in the parties, how the list is formed, how the principle of non-partyism and partyism is taken into account, because many non-party people, scientists, experts who have to work in the Supreme Council. And let's say I don't deny that 20 percent or 25 percent, let's say women, would give the tolerance and wisdom of our parliament to have more women here. So I think I should say right now that the election law is a test for political reform or its absence. If we don't go through with it, there's no point in further deliberating about it. And a key thesis, I think. When you compare what major elections are, what proportional, proportional choices are, is strategy, program, candidate, technology. In major elections, as practice has shown, these are technologies, candidates, programs and strategies. So first, of course, we need to build Ukraine and the political regime in Ukraine, and then think about how to use electoral technologies that were very successful a few days ago, and I think they showed how to win elections with electoral technologies and. They dropped $5 million, they dropped a card, and they did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u136	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich, thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, get ready for Matviyenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u137	Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", National Movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we are making a third attempt today to address the issue of reforming electoral legislation and to improve it to the fullest extent possible in accordance with international standards of fair and free elections. And so it turns out that the biggest discussion is just about one element of electoral legislation -- around the electoral system. I would like to emphasize that the two bills that we are considering today are just one word for each other, both using the term "proportional electoral system." However, I can say with full responsibility that if Rudzikowski-Melniczuk's bill is really one of the options of a proportional system, then the bill introduced by Gavrish, Jooffe and Dashutin, with a proportional system, is practically non-existent. It is a unique electoral system that is the product of logical designs that, contrary to what one author claims, is not used in any country in the world. Any talk about Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania or anything else is a legend. And to disprove this legend, it's enough to take a collection of the electoral laws of Central and Eastern Europe published by the Iphes. There are also Ukrainian legislation, there are Baltic and there are other countries. It is published in Ukrainian this year and is accessible to everyone. Thus, as far as world practice is concerned, this system is not tested. And I can argue that it leads to a substantial distortion of the will of the electorate. It combines all the shortcomings of the majority electoral system, where a large number of votes are just lost, and it combines with the principle or method of comparing the results obtained in different districts, i.e. in absolutely different circumstances, where completely random factors can completely distort the will of the electorate. But I wouldn't stop on this electoral system if it wasn't another principle of the difference between two bills. One of them develops the procedural part by improving the achievements of the previous electoral law, which was followed by the March 2002 elections. This is Rudzkowski and Melniczuk. The law of Havrish, Joseph, and Dashutin rejects all these gains and suggests that we go back to regulating the electoral process in the 1997 edition. So to what we've been through, to what has already created a lot of difficulties, which has led to the need to improve the procedural part. And I have reason to believe that such a highly artificial electoral system, including an old procedure that has long been exhausted, is not an accident. I absolutely share that point of view, what a combination is, is a straight path to applying the distortion of voter will, which in jargon today is called an administrative resource. So I hope that all those who really practice the principles of free and fair elections on Thursday will make their choice in favour of the Rudzi-Melniczuk bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u138	Sergei Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u139	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, we have dealt with this issue on several occasions in the Chamber and have spoken on this subject on several occasions, so I will repeat the point of view that has been expressed again and again. My dears, let us understand the mechanism and structure of our parties. Let us regroup in the mechanism for the work of these parties, after all. More than a hundred! Who among the voters today will know what we are asking for today in the political arena? That's question number one. Second question. The first bill is nothing to say here, a hundred per cent violation of the Constitution, where the human right to vote and be elected simply takes away a party that has the right to dictate its opinion. My dears, you're talking about a breach of the so-called system that can be used by the administration. You call me, look closely at the party lists, what kind of cash bags are you talking about? That there's no room for cash bags on party lists? My dears, look how they put names on that list of who's ahead, who's back. What are you talking about? Open your eyes! Do not deceive the Ukrainian people. Second moment. If we choose Parliament on this principle, I declare once again officially, it will be the parliament of the city of Kiev, no more! And they will work, so to speak, only within this city. With regard to the second bill. He's closer to the subject, you can talk about him, but, dearest Stephen Bogdanovich, we've already talked about this. There is a paradox: the person has raised 90 per cent in his district, but he does not go to parliament because his party has not recruited, and the person who has obtained half a vote is in Parliament and represents interests, so to speak, of this region, of this district. Therefore, we need to approach this area carefully. So I think that these are all, both the first and the second bills, especially the first ones, is how to hide from the electorate, how to get away from the electorate. And now there is, and we've built a structure, and we already know this mechanism, and look, we've passed the elections, and they come to the voters of the party, and they say, "My dears, if we were too few, we would have voted more for us, and then we would have done it, and then we would have shown ourselves. Here, give us more votes, here's to the next Parliament, and then we'll show ourselves, and you'll see that we'll turn the mountains." My dears, we've heard this before on every election campaign. That's not what we need, once again, that's what we need, that's what we need. And the mechanism for the responsibility of each MP to carry out his personal duties, that is, we can ask why there are eighty people in the room today, not the three hundred who should be interested in discussing this issue, and where are the others, and why are there such deputies, our colleagues, whom we do not know in person, and why do they, when they come to the district, so to speak, arise this situation? And the last, well, where in the world are they referring again to world practice, well, where in the world is a system where they don't know their senator? Have fear of God, after all. Open up all the electoral rules and rights. In every country of their senator, they know everything and he has a personal responsibility for every step, for his own action. Finally, we have already considered all these bills and given a specific task, and Parliament has spoken. We need a clear, transparent system of accountability for everyone. Let us, therefore, draft such a bill and not introduce it today, not make any further distinctions on this issue today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u140	National MP Alexander Alexander Moroz. Get ready, Nikolaynka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! It's good that I have to speak after Sergei Matvienkov because I'm in the opposite position. First of all, he can't blame me for disrespecting the majority system, because I've chosen three times in the majority district, and obviously if I did, I think people did listen, you could choose. The most democratic electoral law, of course, is the majority system. There is no doubt about it, but in a democratic society, democratic mechanisms cannot be put in place in a dictatorial society in a system of power organization like today. So, no doubt, such powerful deputies as, say, Stephen Bogdanovich, Sergey Matvienkov, will also be elected deputies in the majority system. Because each party will take care of it, for example, for Stephen Bogdanovich, I would suggest that he be on the list of the Socialist Party and run around Galician, where he came from. For the Socialist Party, he'd be voted for, everything would be fine. And others are realizing their potential. And people, as I'm discussing with my predecessor, I want to say that people have long figured out how many parties there are, what they're worth, what they're looking for, and what the results of the elections should be. The March 31 election demonstrated this. So if we want to make political reform, if we want to strike a balance between branches of government, we have to go this way. If we want to ensure the political restructuring of society, so that we have tens of parties, not 100 with extra decorations for different structures, including questionable content, we have to go this way. And then the Agrarian Party will have the right to represent itself in Parliament and to have access to political influence of the state and other parties and parties of the regions. Again, I call one of the flaws of the project that Stephen Bogdanovich reported. We're going to have regional parties, but we don't have a federation -- we have a unitary state. We need to pay attention to that. I will no longer talk about what might be wrong here for those who are counting on this way of holding their supporters to parliament. For it is not only about Parliament, but about the whole system of power, about the entire system of representative bodies. And you take the approach that Stepan Bogdanovich's project has taken to form the present structures of local authority. You'll see how much it's not going to harmonize what's being proposed for the higher legislature with what's being proposed for the representative bodies on the ground. So I'm talking to representatives of all the political parties here represented: the SDPU, the Party of the Regions, the Democratic Party, and so on, the agrarians. Support the project you need. Note that if you identify the ability or use of an administrative resource today, it is still necessary to understand whose direction this administrative resource will be under. Because these elections will be after the new president. Think about it. We do not need anyone to direct who will be a deputy and who will not, to be determined by the fate of both political organizations, parties, and all nations. And I think that the project that Mikola Rudkowski reported is entirely in line with that task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u142	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please. Just for a little while, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u143	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'm also a major, like Alexander Alexander, three times in the same district and I have some kind of moral right to evaluate these laws from the position of several of my electoral companies. First of all, I would like to continue today the debate that has been going on here, and say that it is hurting Ukraine at all today, and why our Ukraine is not living as it would have wanted without being excluded from everyone in this room and outside it. First of all, I'd like to say, this is irresponsibility, the absence of a future, of a sequence. See, more than ten governments have changed, several have already changed the compositions of the Supreme Council, how many have been replaced by deputies, how many have been replaced by heads of administration and so forth. Carusel's coming up with the staff, one after the other, it's all spinning. Where, then, is the responsibility? What changes for the better? Who is to blame? What program is being implemented? I was talking to Valérie today. He rightly says: Where are the basics? Each Prime Minister comes and brings a new program. Exactly the same way every deputy major goes with his program, he implements it in the walls of the Supreme Council in today's situation can and will never come true. I think it's a classic scheme. We need to get out of here today, get into the party system. The party has its own structures in place, people know a particular member of the party, they're responsible for their deputies. There's the Socialist Party of Ukraine today -- it has its own program. There is today, let's say the People's Movement has its own program and all that. And they answer: form a government, implement their program, please respond. This law of Rudzkowski is a lamus paper that will paint all the political forces, make them clear, and people will know who to vote for. I don't want to offend any of the deputies today. Such, intelligent, honest MPs in "Deminitives", "Eurobibers" and "The People's Powers." You tell me, "What is this political power?".. They will break up after the election, and no one will know who voted for it. And people will come again, they'll buy the districts, they'll press through the administration, and they'll come back to the Supreme Council. A national MP is so beautiful in the district, computers are putting in, feeding the poor, doing everything, an MP is doing fine, and the state is poor every day. Do we not see this contradiction? Do we not see that nothing is to be realized today? And that's why I'm proposing, like it or not, to immediately approve the Proportional System Act, and so that political parties, and we have a lot of parties here today that can come to Parliament, prepare for it today. What a lot of party representatives said to me today, "We'll vote later." You're wasting your time. You don't build party structures, you don't go to people, and your people down there won't do anything or do anything today until there's a proportional system. We're going to save Ukraine because of responsibility, because of the new electoral system.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-02-18-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! We have completed our consideration of the matter. It's not easy. I think we need to hold consultations in order to have a positive vote. And we must proceed from the fact that we are adopting the law, not at any current political moment, but in order to structure society and to carry out political reform, that both the government and parliament have mutual responsibility and that Parliament depends on the government, but on the government of Parliament. I mean in a good way. I suggest we negotiate with the head of the committee to hold consultations intensely until the day of the vote, and then decide on the decision to make a decision that is agreed upon, and we don't have to make a idle move. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed, recess until 16:00.
