ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Please register. [[10:01:14]] Registered -414 A total of 414 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I inform you that to represent the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" is authorized by the national deputies of Ukraine: Yushtenka Viktor Andriyovich, Pinzenika Viktor Mikhajlovich, Kostenka Yuri Ivanovich, Tarasjuka Boris Ivanovich, Prashenko Petra Alexiyovich, Martinenko Mikol Volodymyrovic. In accordance with the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy Sabashuk Petar Pavlovich, I inform you of the temporary suspension of membership in the "Our Ukraine" faction for the period of election to the city head of Zaporozhya. Honorable National MPs, out of procedure? Five minutes, please log in. Rudzkowski, please. Others, please sign up. Five minutes. On the board, please explain. Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u2	The Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable members of the government, I address you, to the entire public, to the head of the Central Electoral Commission. In the 206th constituency in Chernigov, elections are held. There is a gross violation of the law on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy. The candidate Jaroslavsky is now untapped all over the city on large boards, and there's an agitation for him at a time when the agitation period starts only with 14 numbers. Yesterday, the District Electoral Commission, of course, gave a warning to the candidate in charge. I ask you to consider this as a parliamentary request, asking you to intervene in order to ensure the legality of the elections in Chernigov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u4	The Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Victor the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u5	Victor the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u6	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! I just got back from the district, from the Chernites, and I want to let you know what's going on in Chernów. I'm talking about what's going on with the press. Unfortunately, neither the President's statement nor the actions taken by the President's Administration are carried out by the local authorities. Today, there is full pressure on the media. Today, there has been a court-martialed repression under the newspaper Time, which expresses its opinions, the opinions of our voters. So I ask that the Prime Minister draw the conclusions from the administration of the area today as an active governor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u7	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u8	The application will be submitted according to the applicable law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u9	Anatoly Frost, please. The Communist faction. So let's essentially schedule meetings, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u10	Please pass the word to Boris Ilchi Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u11	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u12	Oil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u13	Boris Olinick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to make such an open parliamentary request. I address you, Reverend Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic, as a matter of national importance. Forty years have passed since he went beyond the eternal limits of Basil Simonenko, an inextricable great poet who has joined history with the image of prominent supporters of Ukraine’s independence. He was born in the village of Biljevka in Poltavščina. Thanks to the villagers, the local and Lubenian circuit authorities, it was possible to preserve the orphaned Vasileva’s house, to which worshipers of Simon’s poetry from Ukraine and from neighboring and distant lands came and came. Regrettably, the house is now in such a state that it has two years left without urgent repairs and equipment, according to experts. You, Victor Fedorovich, are called upon to help the household of the famous son of Ukraine to be properly decorated and to build a memorial near it to Vasileva Simonek. Thank you very much. I'm making this request.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u15	Victor Terrence, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u16	Victor Terrence, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm drawing your attention, and please listen to me. Vladimir Mikhailovich, will you give us 30 seconds later?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u17	I'm listening, please talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u18	On May 2, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a decree to report to the government on its execution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision on the trust of society. There is a decree that can only be annulled by another Supreme Council decree. I would like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, how did the Conciliation Council accept the authority of the Supreme Council, and why is the government's trust report not being heeded today? The Conciliation Council said that this was a political issue. It's political, because 4-5-6 million fraudulent trust investors are waiting for it to be resolved. Our faction strongly urges us today to ask the first question of what was adopted by the Supreme Council. We have no right to violate the Rules. The first issue of the day’s order today was the government’s report on the execution of the trust decree. Next comes the text. And on May 20th, our faction insists that there be a Food Security Day for the government, a Food Security Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday, when we agreed on the meeting schedule for the current week, we agreed that this was a matter for us to remove and agree on, and there was no objection. Honorable National Deputies, according to the calendar plan today, are holding the Ukrainian Government Day at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. To implement the Supreme Council decision of 6 February 2003, the subject of our consideration will be information on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to protect the national interests of the State in the areas of national conscious patriotic upbringing of the young generation and to ensure its development. The Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sport, and Tourism proposes the following regulations: a report. Please, don't interrupt, you've spoken, you've taken advantage of your right. The interviewer will be given up to 15 minutes for the report and up to 30 minutes for the answer to written and oral questions. Take 15 minutes to speak to the profile committee. For 30 minutes, we will discuss and then we will consider the information of the Cabinet of Ministers on compliance by the executive authorities with the requirements of legislation when carrying out comprehensively in the spring and spring work and the enforcement of legislation in preparation for and implementation of the 2003 crop harvest. We also agreed that today, the APC minister will inform us about the state of supply of food and grain for Ukraine. Yesterday was agreed on our council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u20	The committee is not ready and the government is not ready to move. You considered that question yesterday and agreed it. On the next Conciliation Council, we'll define, and I'm very tolerant of you. Please invite me to make a presentation with the Head of the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young Valentina Longzhenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished members of the government! The development of a sovereign, democratic, legal Ukrainian state, its formation and approval are not possible without the development of the spirituality of citizens. Raising them on the basis of patriotism, respect for the historical heritage of the Ukrainian people, human values, and social optimism. The Constitution of Ukraine states that the State should promote the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its real consciousness, tradition and culture, as well as the development of ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of all indigenous peoples and national minorities in Ukraine. So the efforts of state and public organizations to raise a national-conscious patriotic personality must be focused primarily on the youth environment, because the foundations of valuable personality orientations are based on young people. It is the government that is working to solve these problems by implementing important legislative acts in the areas of education, health, culture, and spirituality. What is a nationally conscious, patriotic person? It is primarily a harmoniously developed, humanistic, educated, physically and morally healthy person who loves his state, honors the history, spiritual heritage of his people, and wants to contribute to the development of the state. How do young people view it? When asked during a social survey in April: "A national conscious person is who?"'--the young Chinaman Nazar replied, 'It is a man who is proud of those who live in Ukraine, those who live in Kiev, those who communicate in Ukrainian, those who have the national currency of the bracelet and who can indeed say with pride 'I am Ukrainian'. Sociology polls confirm that two thirds of the young people share Nazar’s opinion. The increase in the number of young people who are willing to defend their country with guns is evidence of increased patriotic feelings. Today, so are two thirds of the young people. Modern - day youths have a pragmatic view of their own future. Young people rely primarily on their own strength, willing to develop their own business, learn, and work. Young people expect, not benefits, but just and equal starting conditions for their own self - realization. After all, Ukraine’s prosperity can be achieved only through the simultaneous and mutually responsible development of both the state and the nation and the personality. Young citizens are aware of their role in the development of the state and therefore the vast majority of them, more than 90 percent of them, put education first among the values of life. In Ukraine, important steps have been taken to reform education in such a way that it meets the needs of the day for content, accessibility, quality, competitiveness in the world market and education, and work. During the years of independence, the number of students has doubled. 95 percent of the schools in the world are teaching in Ukrainian, and modern educational programs have been introduced: civic education, legal literacy, child safety, and youth. In general, it was possible to maintain a network of extra - school institutions, which were more than 4,000,600 facilities in the MON, Minculture, Statecompartment, and Statecomsimyoung people at the beginning of 2002. During the past 10 years, 1 in 5 school - age children has been an out - of - school teacher. In the field of attention, Derkomsimiymymyouths are actively employed by a thousand 700 clubs at their residence. However, there are a number of painful, unresolved problems. These include, inter alia, the lack of provision by Ukrainian-language textbooks, especially vocational and technical institutions; the lack of a single concept of teaching humanitarian disciplines, first and foremost, history; and an imperfect mechanism for lending higher education. So the government is now developing a draft regulation that provides for a more rational use of budgetary resources in the course of implementing the learning lending programme. The program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provides for the release of modern textbooks, the promotion of development, and the support of national books. Dear National Deputies! The key to raising a patriot is creating conditions for professional self - realization for young people to have jobs. According to Minpraci, 8555,000 young people benefited from the State Employment Service in 2002, of whom almost 300,000 were employed. Of this number, nearly 10,000 young people received one - time unemployment assistance for the organization of entrepreneurial activities. 40 percent of young people want to start their own business. The government is supporting the development of a network of youth business centres, business incubators, which increased to 80 in 2002. A favourable information and investment climate is formed for young entrepreneurs. For 5 years, there is an annual Ukrainian Business Competition for entrepreneurial activities among young people and students. With a view to taking full account of the interests of young people, as a special social-age category, a network of youth labour centres is being formed, not only at the district level, but now at the district and city levels. They reached 55 on April 1, 2003. During the past year alone, nearly 100,000 jobs have been provided to young people. Equally important is the provision of secondary employment for young people in leisure. Government support is provided for the development of youth labour groups, with 380,000 young people, students, and students working in the past year. Among the activities of the labour force were the expansion of archaeological, restorative and restorative work aimed at rebuilding and preserving historical and cultural monuments in Ukraine, which has a positive effect on the patriotic upbringing of young people, their historical and national self-awareness. Employment in rural areas remains the most pressing problem. Today, 3.2 million young people live in the countryside, and the unemployment rate among them is much higher than in the city. In order to address this problem of integration, young people in modern economic relations are taking the measures envisaged in the State Employment Programme, as well as measures to improve the situation of young people that they have recently adopted, the Cabinet of Ministers approved for this year. Dear National Deputies! "Without family there is no happiness on earth" - they say to Ukrainians. And they say, "When a strong family, the state is strong." Parenting families have been tested for centuries on the national upbringing of children in the family. It is a powerful source of worldview, national spirit, high morals, vocational training, civic strength, deep human feelings, love for mother, father, grandmother, grandparents, family and people, respect for native language, history, and culture. Yet, according to a national report on the situation of families in Ukraine prepared last year, the educational potential of the family is declining. Among the factors. which have led to the socio-economic problems experienced by the family during the transition period, the change in standards of conduct and family values during the life of one generation, the reduction of parental influence on children in family conditions, the loss of family experience, the decline in the impact of the territorial community on family life. That is why the program of activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is particularly focused on the design of a conceptually new family policy. This will be facilitated by the implementation of the Ukrainian Family Programme, the Rural Women National Plan of Action to Improve the Status of Women, as well as full economic independence and support for socially vulnerable families, once again in the full scope of the State Assistance for Families with Children Act. Today, there are 2 and a half million young families in Ukraine, with more than 80 percent of children born from birth to birth. At the same time, some 800,000 young families need to improve living conditions, more than 30 percent of them not being provided at all. That is why the implementation of the State Youth Housing Programme 2002-2012, which was approved last year by the Cabinet of Ministers, is so relevant. The program will solve the housing problems of more than 70,000 young families. Everything in the complex helps to increase the confidence of our young people in their own future. The government’s programme of action is intended to triple the amount of long - term loans for construction, housing reconstruction for young people, and, above all, rural areas. The implementation of these and other measures will not only improve the status of different categories of families and ensure their social support, but also contribute to the widest possible exposure of the Ukrainian family to the upbringing of the young generation. Respectful national MPs, the next factor affecting the formation of young people in the state, the formation of patriotic feelings, is the creation of a state worthy of the physical and moral health of young people. In order to improve the health of the population, particularly children and young people in Ukraine, a number of important documents have been adopted in this area, such as improving reproductive health, prevention of HIV infections, tuberculosis, tobacco. There is a network of centres, social services for young people now operating 667, as well as 1,500 specialised forms that provide extensive social services to young people. It was only last year that some 2 million were provided. Not only are the volumes of such services growing, but also their diversity, creating new types of specialized social services like Trust, crisis centers. In this way it can be argued that Ukraine is in the process of developing an active system of social work with young people. In recent times, social work with young people has also begun in rural areas. It is important, as we believe, that there is an initiative of the Plains region to establish in every rural and rural council of cultural and social services carried out by the Ministry of Culture, the State Committee on Family and Youth Affairs, along with local authorities in the Plains region. We are confident that this approach will enable each young person to approach, promote socialization, promote patriotism, and form a healthy way of life. Presidential decrees have been adopted to address these issues in recent years on measures for the development of spirituality, the protection of morals, the development of a healthy way of life for citizens, the National Programme for the Revival and Development of Ukrainian Cossacks, the concept of preceptive training and military and patriotic education for young people. As of June 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers had for the first time implemented state support for the development of a network of drug rehabilitation centers that would enable young people to return to normal life. These questions will be discussed during this year’s parliamentary hearing on the situation of young people on the subject of developing a healthy lifestyle for Ukrainian youths, conditions, problems, and prospects. The introduction of various forms of work in educational institutions is ongoing. There is a growing movement of children and students' youth to preserve, to multiply the cultural and historical heritage, the natural environment of the land, and to restore traditions, customs and rituals of the people, such as "My Earth is the land of my parents." Traditional congregations have become, "Youth is a healthy way of life." This year they passed on the land of Taras Shevchenko, Bogdan Hmelnicki, in Cherkaschi. The country’s all - country sports children’s competitions New methods of impacting the minds of young people, such as the arts, are under way. We're already doing the second art action "Art Against Drugs and AIDS." And tens of thousands of young people have been involved in this action. Dear National Deputies! An important factor in the patriotic upbringing is the formation of a youth’s historical consciousness, which is an extremely difficult task in a transitional society. It should be noted that the interest of young people in learning national history, traditions, habits, and customs, in the sources of material and spiritual culture, has increased considerably in recent times. Young people know and value the contribution of historical personalities to the formation and development of the Ukrainian state, such as Bogdan Hmelnicki, Taras Shevchenko, Mikhailo Gruszewski, John Mazepa, Lesia Ukraine, who have contributed to the establishment of an independent Ukrainian state, the preservation and formation of its national culture and consciousness. More than 50 percent of the youths surveyed express the desire to know more about their own country’s history in all its fullness and complexity, in all contradictions, to know the whole truth, not the selective facts. In recent times, therefore, the work of central and local authorities on the heroic and patriotic upbringing of children and young people has increased significantly. At the state level is the anniversary of the formation of the youth underground organization Youth Guard and the anniversary of the heroic defence under the Kruts is celebrated, because both are examples of the patriotism of young people, their willingness to give up their lives for their homeland. With the State support and active participation of social organizations such as the Ukrainian Scout organization Plast, the Ukrainian Youth Association in Ukraine, the Children's and Youth Society Sic and many others are gaining new powers of heroic patriotic action, festivals of military and political song. You know what? The 10th edition of the All-Ukrainian Festival "Veterans, Youths, the Future", which is in preparation for the 60th anniversary of the victory in the Great Homeland War. In Herson County, the second time is the "Obreig" Military Patriotic Song Festival, the Luhansk Region is being implemented by the Youth Guards Program. Respect for one’s own people is also shaped by respect for the nations of the world. With the aim of involving young people in the course of European integration announced in the message of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council "European Choice", the government creates the conditions for promoting the integration of young people into European and international youth space. One important step in this direction is to hold in Kiev in September of this year under the auspices of the United Nations Regional Youth Forum, Youth of the 21st Century. Realities and perspectives," which has now been announced by young people from 30 countries around the world. The international creative festival of children of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organization "Let's Change the World for the Better" which takes place annually in Artec, as well as the children's and young people's creativity festival "Our Earth - Ukraine", whose main goal is to promote the prestige of Ukrainian youth, to promote the integration of Ukrainian national minorities into Ukrainian society, to strengthen friendly relations between Ukrainian children and Ukrainians abroad. Plants of culture, education are carried out with the revival of national holidays and rituals, the promotion of cultural values. This is done within the framework of a program designed for young people by 2005. At the same time, it's important to note in a self-critical way that we don't always make good use of what, not so long ago, in Soviet times, has worked very effectively in the discipline of young people, I mean the activities of military and patriotic clubs and associations, the conduct of military and patriotic games for young people. Honorable national MPs, the upbringing of young people in the spirit of patriotism and national consciousness cannot be without the active participation of public organizations. We are grateful to the Association for the Defence of Ukraine, for the organization of veterans, for the Union of veterans of Afghanistan, for the Union of Ukraine, for the Association of them. Helen Telliga, a Cossack’s Society for Helping Youths A particularly important factor, though, is the increasing education of young people in the spirit of patriotism, the national consciousness of youth. I want to say that in recent years, the number of social youth organizations at all levels has doubled, and every third of these organizations are dealing with patriotic education. These organizations need to be referred to the All-Ukrainian Union of Studying Young Zerevo, the Military Patriotic Union of Ukraine, the Young Movement of Ukraine, the Youth Sea League, the Young Ukraine Foundation, the Republican Christian Youth and many others. Since this year, you know, because of your support, public youth, children’s, women’s organizations have openly and transparently started funding the first competition among their programs. One third of these programs are aimed at military patriotic education. Such programs were supported by 144 of the 70 public organizations and the results of the competition were announced on April 30 in the newspaper Government Courier. Ladies and gentlemen, our work together inspires the hope that the level of patriotic consciousness of young Ukrainian citizens will increase. According to sociological research, two thirds of young citizens look to their future in Ukraine with optimism. However, almost half would like to leave Ukraine if there was such a possibility. This is the final figure that seems to be striking and shocking in the deeper investigation, indicating that the intention to leave Ukraine is to seek international education, to have a job, to get money, and to return to Ukraine. The question that's being considered today is not a simple one, because we're at the stage not only of socio-economic, but of global transformation. In preparation for Government Day, the State Committee on Family Affairs and Young People, along with ministries and other central executives, have prepared information and analysis materials that have been provided to you. I am convinced that they can be the basis for our future work. With a view to ensuring national interests in the national conscious and patriotic upbringing of the young generation, the government is asking you, honourable national deputies, to speed up the adoption of the Ukrainian National Youth Support Program 2003-2008, which you adopted in the first reading. We are now working with the Committee of the Supreme Council on the development of the National Programme of Patriotic Education for Young People. In addition, it seems necessary to adopt legislation such as providing young people with housing, first - place guarantees, protecting social morality, State support for raising children in families, and volunteering. Doing so will serve as a basis for enhancing the effectiveness of public policy in the area of the patriotic upbringing of the young generation, which will contribute to the full development of young citizens, their wider involvement in the processes that will bring our nation to a worthy place in the world’s cohort. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u22	Honorable National MPs. I ask you to have a discussion half a ton below so that you can work. That's the first one. And secondly, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please explain your names. Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u23	Dear reporter, Valentina Ivanovna. I already told you. Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. I'm already on Government Day, when we're talking about recovery, there's children's rest, I've been asking you questions. Time is running out and I want to ask you this. Do you know that patriotic feelings, feelings, and upbringing depend on caring for our young nation? So I'd very much like you to tell us the truth: why haven't I ever met this year, how much money or how much money the government spends on this summer's children's health, how much money is it that we spend on social insurance funds, parental benefits, trade unions, and so on, how much is the state? Because it is not the first year, let’s say, in many areas, that it does not allocate money at all, but it is just child support on the Internet, such as recreation and the recovery of children. Please give us the right answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u24	Thank you, Honorable People's Deputy Vernigor, for asking. I can confirm the figures that I quoted on March 11th during the government's Day of Preparation for the Annual Child Health Organization. More than 111 million are made available from the State Budget for the rehabilitation of children in Chernobyl. You know that, ministers can confirm. The State Budget provides 14 million for the rehabilitation of children at the International Children's Centre, Artek. The State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth provides 2.5 million dollars for the rehabilitation of children of socially vulnerable categories. The State Budget of the Ministry of Education provides 15 million for the rehabilitation of children of socially vulnerable categories for the organization of preschool camps, as well as the State Budget, and the budget of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy has been allocated 4 million. The Social Insurance Fund is spending about 80 million dollars, and this year I agree with you completely that in many local budgets last year, there were no funds for the recovery of children. Yet, nearly 50 million were allocated to local budgets last year. This year, more than 80 million funds were planned in local budgets for the rehabilitation of children, as well as for the collection of 50 million extrabudgetary funds. The Ukrainian State Committee on Family and Youth, in line with the Supreme Council’s decision, carried out individual work with each district government, adopted plans for the rehabilitation of children, and for funding. And on May 20 of this year, we invite you to a nationwide meeting where every area will report on the readiness to prepare the camps and the financing. Yesterday I was checked out in the Cherkas region. Unfortunately, the governor and I have been in the same two camps that haven't worked for many years and that don't work for this year. And yesterday we agreed with the new owners of these companies that during this year they will bring these two institutions to normal. These are the camps, I told you, we have almost 100. And our job this year is to do everything we can to determine the fate of these camps and prepare them for discovery next year. I want to thank the unions for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u25	Valentina Ivanovna is now writing a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u26	Questions from the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism What steps are being taken by the executive authorities and local authorities to ensure the child’s rights to education and to hold him responsible for violating these rights? Dear colleagues! You know, according to the Education Act, we have a general compulsory secondary education. In line with the Law on Organs and Services for Minors and Special Institutions for Minors in the Service of Juveniles, the task of monitoring the exercise of children’s rights, including in the area of education, is to be carried out in conjunction with the Law on Organs and Services in the field of juvenile affairs. We're in September months, we're in the services of minors, we're in the regional administrations of the Ministry of Education, and we're in the criminal department of juvenile affairs, and we're in the process of doing things like learning, and we're showing all the children who didn't come to school. So in 2001, 35,000 children were discovered, 30,000 children in 2000 and about the same number in 2002. And thanks to the Service’s cooperation in the affairs of minors, local authorities, and educational institutions, virtually all these children have been brought back to school. During the first quarter of 2003, nearly 6,000 uneducated teenagers were discovered, of which 3,000 were from disadvantaged families, so we have now developed a social assistance program for disadvantaged families, and our social services are working with such families to provide education for all our children. [[That's 82,000 of them.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u27	Yes, Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u28	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Michael Gladys.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u29	Michael Glady, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u30	Dear Valentina Ivanovna! Mikhailo Gladys, Ukrainian Agrarian Party, Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction. Please tell me two questions to you. First. What can be explained, in particular, is the fact that many schools, both urban and rural, have reduced Ukrainian education. That's the first question. And the second. Please tell me how many times, starting in February 1993, when the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young Ukraine was passed at the governmental level of an integrated Cabinet of Ministers developed this issue. As far as I know, there was no such complex analysis. What will you do, what will be your next action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u31	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Indeed, the law on social development and development of young people, which was adopted in 1993, is fundamental and you know that, at the very least, I can speak, starting in 1998, that you were then vice-premier, thank you for the support that the government has been considering the implementation of these articles or other articles, thematic reports on ensuring the socialization of young people. This was also true of employment, and this was about housing. It was in 1998-1999 that we developed the first experimental program of providing young people with housing. You know that during this. These five years have been changed, complemented and initiated by MPs, and from the government's initiative to the law on social development, the development of young people in support of the first job in support of youth employment. We worked together comprehensively last year, along with many national deputies. And the analysis of the implementation of the law on social creation, the development of young people has shown that we need to develop a national programme that foresees the progressive implementation of every article of this law. Such a national program was designed and presented at parliamentary hearings last year and you accepted it in the first reading. Now it is our job to work on the second reading and, of course, to step up the chapter on raising a national - conscious patriotic youth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u32	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u33	Questions from the Democratic Initiatives MP group. "Is it provided, if so, by the way, by national conscious and patriotic education of young people in general and vocational schools. How quickly is civic education being introduced into the educational system? How many educational institutions have introduced this subject or specialty? What is the methodological basis for teaching this subject?" I want to let you know that in the ninth grade, we're studying the Basics of Law. It has a fairly high level of science and technology. The Ministry of Education and Science recommends two alternative programs and three textbooks for use. Practically all educational institutions in Ukraine received free of charge toolkits from the teaching of the basics of law. You know that a study of the state of legal education in Ukrainian educational institutions by the Ministry of Education has shown that the training of students from legal disciplines needs a more purposeful form of practical application of acquired legal knowledge in the most common situations of life. And that's why the solution to this problem is based on the new "Practical Law" course. So far, we've got programs, textbooks, methodological textbooks on "Civil Education" for 9-11 classes, citizens and 9th grade classes. Now, very actively with public organizations, with the support of the Ministry of Education and Science, the annual social action "Citizen" is being implemented. This project provides for the awareness of schoolchildren with methods and technologies, socio-political activity and skills in civic life. The Ukrainian State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth is doing an extremely extensive work in organizing seminars, courses, teaching programs, and for leaders of social, youth organizations, generally for members of social youth organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u34	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, I have three questions, but they are very connected. I have this impression, I've looked at the material that you're analyzing the effects and you're not analyzing the reasons. The main reason for all the trouble is unemployment. If a youth does not know where to work, he is not interested in language. He is interested in the language of the country where he will work. So they're learning English, they're learning Russian, where they can find jobs. So, on the other hand, when Russian, I remember, was national, Russian teachers were paid 15 percent more. So it is necessary for teachers of Ukrainian to have a salary of 15 percent more than other philosophers. And in terms of unemployment, I'll remind you of that figure. One in three officially registered unemployed are young people. So what's important is that these 90,000 professionals with higher education not to go abroad, but to have jobs here. And because of what you've done to improve the conditions for entering the WTO? Because WTO conditions today are signed by governments that increase unemployment, and thus worsen the conditions for young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Mr. Michael, I fully agree with you that the measures taken by the government, which are used by the central executive authorities, are aimed at overcoming unemployment and giving young people the opportunity to work, are now insufficient, despite the fact that there is a state employment programme, despite what I told you last year, that the state social services centres for young people have employed almost 300,000. Young people, however, if we are looking at 900,000, and according to statistics, the International Organisation for the Work of the Unemployed Young People, we have even more, this is a testimony to the need to take more radical measures. We've analyzed why 30 percent of the young people are unemployed, and their fate is much smaller, because a young person needs a slightly different approach, because often they don't match those needs. As a result, the government adopted a decree establishing the position on the youth work center. I already told you, over the past year, we've created 55 jobs, and almost 100,000 young people have been assisted in consulting, in employment, in secondary employment. A young person will be more likely to understand a young person because he needs more work to do in order to prepare him and persuade his employer to take a young person to work. We'll work in that direction. I agree with you, I'm sorry we have about 2 million. People, according to unofficial statistics that work abroad, are very young people. And I think we have to pay a decent salary for those who teach Ukrainian and those who teach Russian and those who teach accurate sciences to teach young people and try to help them in their employment. And thank you for supporting the national programme, and I'm sure you support the draft law on first place guaranteed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u37	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u38	This is a question from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. It coincides with the question just asked by the national deputy of Pavlovsky. What measures are being taken by the government to employ young people and improve the quality of their professional training in line with demand on the labour market and other social issues? I've practically answered it, I've already answered it. I'm just going to add that, you know, there's a 5-percent quota to keep jobs in the workplaces at businesses, institutions and organizations. In this regard, nearly 40,000 jobs were banned last year, where young people are employed. However, I would like to say in a frank and self-critical manner that we should significantly strengthen the monitoring of the implementation of the legislative norms that are provided for in our laws. This year alone, we want to increase the number of youth employment centres by 50 more and to actually employ as many as 30,000 young people and 200,000 young people to help get a job. Including this year, we are creating mobile counselling points that will work with unemployed youth in rural areas and introduce new programmes to promote the employment of young people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u39	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u40	160th constituency. Dear Valentina Ivanovna! We know how much your committee does because of your energetic position. That's why. At the same time, I would like to say that the government has identified you as the main reporter. But reporting on this, there's still a bit of a backdrop and a place in the patriotic upbringing of young people like the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Defense. According to the general diagrams, you did not set out to work with rural youth in a separate section. You probably won't deny that the level of information, the level of the city's infrastructure is slightly different from the country's young man, where there's no club, there's no wire radio, there's only television in the video. Please explain why rural youths are so forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u41	Thank you, Mr. Nightshenko, for your questions and for your constant cooperation and assistance. You know, I'm sorry, I've already taken up the time given by the Rules, and maybe I haven't paid attention to the lack of time for the activities carried out by ministries, other central executives. To that end, we have prepared, together with them and scientists, a large first analytical report on the implementation of measures towards the upbringing of the young generation that we have given you, and you will have the opportunity to get acquainted with it, to make critical remarks and to learn about the great work done by the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Education in the direction of educating the young generation. As far as rural youth is concerned. I totally agree with you. First of all, we've had an increase in the number of young people in the village by almost 300,000 in recent years. At the same time, the problems of rural youth, primarily related to unemployment, have increased considerably. In fact, less attention is given to rural youths. So last year, together with the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, we developed an inter-branch program called Rural Youth. I've already said that we're going to have a moving consultative point in every area this year that will work with young people. And the main thing. You supported the Government's Action Programme, and it provides that during 2003-2004 in every village, every village will have a social service, we'll talk about one social worker at a time. And this experience is already extremely effective in the Plains region, where social workers, the Ministry of Culture, have united their efforts. And you know, we've been here recently, we've been holding a field meeting with the Supreme Council Committee in the Plains region. I want to say that in the Equinox area, social workers have come to the village, and they're restoring socio-cultural and leisure complexes. First. There has been a significant reduction in juvenile delinquency. It's different. To my question to the heads of the village councils, show me a list and a list of disadvantaged families, disadvantaged children. Most of them said, "We don't have any because we know them and we actually work." Third. In recent months, $2.8 has increased the amount received from paid services provided to people in the countryside. I'm sure that's the way to go, and we'll try to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u42	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Valentina Ivanovna! I'm going to quote you on the naturalistic factors combined with the cultural factors that form the basis of psychological attachment. This kind of mutual complicity allows you to synthesize modern and so forth. It's from the parenting report. And I have a specific question on the ground. One of the real threats to Ukraine’s national interests should be seen as the spread of drug abuse among young people. A drug addict will never be national or patriotically oriented. Please tell me how the State Committee cooperates with the law enforcement agencies and local administrations in order to combat such a frightening and dangerous phenomenon as drug abuse among young people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. In fact, the rate of increase in the number of young people who use drugs is too high, injecting drugs, and then having HIV infection, is increasing in Ukraine. You know, there's a government program that's being developed, and there's a coordinating board at the Cabinet of Ministers. The work of the State Committee on Family Affairs and Youth Because of our family and youth administrations and through public organizations, it is carried out in the following way. First. This is to inform as many young people as possible about what will happen to them after they have become involved in drug use. You know, we combined our efforts with the Ministry of Culture, along with talented artists. And the theater on the Podola put the play "Murphy" last year. And with this play, we've gone through 10 different areas. More than 30,000 young people, including those who use drugs, their parents, educators, doctors, and young people who volunteer, young people who have not been involved, I am confident that because of the artistic influence I have learned about the harmfulness of this influence. Next. We create advisory points and work with young people as well. We work together with the Ministry of Education in institutions and institutions outside the school system. We're trying to get more and more involved in the educational, preventive work of our social centers, we already have them, I said, 667, they don't have that many people working, but 3,000 people are working with young people in information and education. And yet, you know, I agree with you that a young person who uses drugs, and you know, at this stage, it's super-started, she's not going to be a patriot. Yet it is humane to come to the aid of this young man. And that's why last year, the government adopted a decree approving a typical position on the Center for the Resocialization of Drug Addiction Youth "Your Victory." The first such center was created in Hmelnicke five years ago. And you know there are results. More than 20 percent of young people who spent a year there trying to get rid of their drug addiction did so. And our State Committee is doing this work with public organizations and with our district administrations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u45	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u46	Questions from the Democratic Initiatives MP group. What are the public, youth and institutions of the state, private in Ukraine, engaged in the spiritual and patriotic education of young people, supported by non-governmental organizations and institutions? One practical form of child - and - youth education is rest camping. What material basis does the State today have for such a work? How are the two largest bases inherited from Soviet times by Artek and Young Guard used for this purpose? Whether the State supports such a public organization that has a bearing on the national conscious and patriotic upbringing of the Ukrainian scout organization PLAST, the last two questions have come from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! I've already told you that it's nice and positive that over the last five years we've had more than twice the number of youth organizations and children's social organizations. They're almost 4.5 thousand in the regions and over 100 at the all-U.S. level. Yet, to be honest, we have nothing else. It makes us happy and proud because according to our data, only about 7 percent of young people are united and social organizations and work actively. At the same time, in developed nations, such as Sweden, about half the young people are there, work, and engage in activities in one or more social organizations. You know that last year you first supported the government's proposal and budgeted 10 million dollars to support the activities of public organizations: youth, women, children. In line with the government's decision last year, which confirmed the status of the programme contest, the position was published in the "Government courier" on January 25th, during the 2 months 244 programmes were adopted by the competition commission, reviewed and 144 programmes adopted for funding. Which organizations we supported, you can get to know in the government courier on April 30th. I just want to say that and to celebrate the extremely positive activities in the areas of national and patriotic education of young people, such as the All-Ukrainian Children's Patriotic Union of Ukraine, the Federation of Ukrainian Children's Organizations, the National Scouts' Organisation of Plast, the Ukrainian Children's Sports Association of Sic, the All-Ukrainian Youth Society of Education, the Youth Aerospace Union of Sustria, the Association of Ukrainian Youth, the Youth Movement of Zarevo, the Youth League of the Sea, the Young Ukraine Foundation and many others. As far as the Ukrainian scout organization Plast is concerned, so is she. Several of its projects have been won and in the current year there is funding for Plast in the amount of 201 thousand dollars. Oh, and about Artec and the Young Guard. You know, this year as well as last year, there are 14 million children to be healed, primarily talented from disadvantaged families, orphans, children from socially vulnerable families in line with the Artek situation last year, and this year, they're going to be carrying out great national patriotic, educational measures. The first is the "Our Land - Ukraine", where children from all over Ukraine and the diaspora come together. We would like to thank the Supreme Council for raising the issue of the International Children’s Festival of the States of the Black Sea and the Official Members and Associates at one of the PACES meetings. And this year, there's going to be such a festival, and it's going to be attended by children from 16 countries around the world. You know, there's an enormous amount of action going on in Arteka every year, like the Arteka constellation and a lot of other things. In the last two years, about 40,000 Ukrainian children and children from other countries of the world have been healed in Artec. It's about Young Guards. I've been saying, and I'm saying again, this facility belongs to a public organization called the Federation of Children's Organizations. And he is indeed in decline today, and this year he will heal children only in the summer. We offered the Young Guard leadership to take part in a tender to receive public funds to organize the rehabilitation of children of socially vulnerable categories. We didn't get a positive answer from them. I don't know, but maybe it's time we asked the deputies to intervene in this situation, to consider the ownership of the Young Guard.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u47	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u48	Fucking Communist faction. Dear Valentina Ivanovna, you've talked a lot about all this. But I have a question. On May 9, we celebrated the 58th anniversary of the great victory. There's been a lot of reports, a lot of beautiful words at the vet's address. But why is the truth of the great victory kept silent? Why is it not real and true that the Soviet, Soviet army, the Communist Party of the Soviet Union was the organizer of a great victory? Reports were made, heads of administration spoke, and they did not say a word about it. Although the reputation of Communistism among young people has increased over the past ten years, it is growing, and no matter what the authorities do, it cannot be silenced today. So I have a question: what is the committee doing, what does the government do to make history really true to the people of Ukraine and to the same young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u49	Thank you, National Deputy Yeshchenko, for asking. You know, under the initiative of the Ukrainian National Deputy Anatolia Volodymyrovich Tolstouchov, with the support and active cooperation of a number of public organizations, which are united in the society of the Ukrainian civil organization, 10 numbers in the area before the museum of the Great Homeland War have been launched, the All-Ukrainian festival Veterans, Youth, the future has been launched, which will take place for two years. It will take place in every corner of Ukraine, it will end, its sums will be summed up during the celebration of the 60th anniversary of the great victory. You know, when I went there, I heard this conversation. A group of veterans stood there, and several young people approached them. And the veterans ask them, "Why did you come? Is that interesting to you?" To what did the young people completely consciously say: 'How could it be different if almost every family has someone killed or came from the front sick and then died? This is our story. And we want to give tribute to our veterans." During this festival, we'll help veterans, we'll rebuild military and patriotic clubs, do everything we can to reveal the full truth, although perhaps contradictory, to allow young people to have the right to choose, to get acquainted with history, to make their own conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u50	Yes, thank you, Valentina Ivanovna?), time is up. Please have a seat. I invite you to report to the head of the Committee of Samuel, Catherine of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government! Protecting national interests in these areas is an integral part of the security of any state, and Ukraine is no exception here. To that end, our country has created a whole range of state institutions that know the very question of raising young citizens as real patriots of Ukraine. It's both the Ministry of Defense, and the BSC, and the Ministry of Emergency Situations, Education and Science, Culture and Arts, and you don't actually count them all. And it's probably right that the Ukrainian national deputy Gavrish offered to spend Government Day with this kind of agenda, because the security of the state is certainly above all else. And not only in this area, but also in the economy, in politics. And I think we should have studied the problem in general for a long time. At the same time, it is a great pleasure to note that the leaders of the strong human race are all of these governmental institutions. But great trust is expressed to women to speak out with a national security problem. We're going to assume that the man-to-man business was ruined, and now it's time to dig up what we've got in twelve years. And now, essentially, the question. The government report has quite a number of measures and programs carried out by executive authorities regarding the patriotic upbringing of young people, the formation of feelings of love, and the respect for their homeland. But what criteria can be applied to assess the effectiveness of this process? The most important of them, I think, is how young people feel about their state. According to the government itself, 43 percent of young Ukrainians would like to be born and live in another country. You could put a dot on this in the agenda. But it's worth a try and figure out why it's happening, because it's a very serious symptom. I'll start with what doesn't need to be proved. Nationalally conscious and patriotic education for young people is essential to the State’s creation of social conditions and the development of young citizens. All the activities of all branches of government are valued by young people as follows: they are not inclined to trust the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- 74 percent, the President of Ukraine -- 73 percent, the state institutions -- 60 percent. This attitude toward government institutions is primarily explained by the fact that the State does not ensure that the constitutional guarantees of the most important direction of life for young citizens are met. In such areas as employment, education, health, housing, cultural needs, and the material support of socially vulnerable youth groups, the negative score ranges from 50 percent to 80 percent. Why? Because it's like a list of normative acts that are directly aimed at organizing, strengthening, improving, deepening, and so forth, raising conscious patriots, forming high moral principles, ensuring the development of young citizens, that there are more than a hundred. Since many legal acts are not being implemented, no one will be surprised. But some who are concerned with the very issue of patriotic parenting can courageously count on the status of detective literature. For example, in implementing the President’s decree on spiritual development, moral protection, and the healthy lifestyle of citizens issued in 1999, the government by its decree approves an appropriate national programme of patriotic education. Well, in our view, it's meaningful and forward-looking. As early as January 2002, the government abolished the program with advisory, advisory, and so forth. Just nine months later, in October of last year, the President by decree again obliges the government to develop a programme of patriotic education for the population. But we are already looking at the problem of national consciousness and patriotic education in the middle of 2003, and there is nothing to talk about, because this program is never approved. Whether we should be surprised by the decline in the interests of youth toward literature, art, and spiritual acquisitions of our people. Instead, Ukrainian television channels, I want to turn everyone around, offer our young movies of horrors, violence, thefts, the law of a strong fist, kills the brains that everything in the world buys and sells. At the same time, for many years, the Ukrainian Chronic Documentary Studio has been virtually simplified, where more than 80 tapes were produced every year in Soviet times, and now one or two in a year. And the documentary is the story of the country, it's the story of the people. Stahanov's record, taking Berlin, taking the first man into space, winning the Kyiv Dynamo at the Super Bowl in 1975, left us with documentaryists, and what do we leave to our descendants? So is Kyiv's study of science-popular films, a study of the name Duženka. Okay, well, someone doesn't want to mention "Born Revolution" by Love or "Think About Kovpak" by Levczuk or "Commissioners" by Mashchenka. So let's think about the Land of Long, the Babylon of Mikolaychuk, "Only the old men go to battle" Bykov, who make up not only the Soviet-Ukrainian cinematographer, but also the world cinematographer. Sadly, all these recent years have been marked by a home cinematographer’s decline. I want to stop at the role of education institutions in the process of patriotic education and the foundation of public consciousness. In February, Kiev held an exhibition of educational institutions "Education in Ukraine. 2003." One of the goals, according to Vasil Grigorovovich Kremen, was to demonstrate the achievements and better experience of Ukraine’s established institutions, including the introduction of new forms of education for young people. Instead, the organizers of the exhibition did not define the state of patriotic parenting as necessary in the exposure. This example, to my conviction, is a testimony to the fact that the mentioned issue in the education system is taking an inappropriate place. Although, by the way, the national doctrine of education is that civic and patriotic education is one of the main priorities of education. One eloquent example should be cited in this connection, and I would like to turn to the deputies of all factions. Throughout the 12 - year period of schooling, the entire course of history includes 10 study hours to study the history of the Great Homeland War, an hour in the fifth grade, and nine hours in the 11th class — the period of the greatest victory of our parents and grandfathers, which was characterized by mass heroism on the front and back — takes only one hour on average each year. I would like to address the high officials who are in office today: Why is the great feat of our fellow countrymen deliberately silenced? Go into every house, and in every house you will find pictures of the yellowish young smiling faces, and the war has left them forever young. Is not their short life a model for young people as an example of their endless love for their homeland, for their own land, of self - sacrifice for victory? Why is it surprising that the following questions are answered in a survey of the student’s patriotic feelings? Are you ready to defend your homeland? There were the following options. No, protect, don't protect, the state doesn't even respect you. Or they're willing to protect, but only for money. Clearly, such a system of moral values does not change when a graduate becomes a student. The level of patriotism among young people, its attitude towards the State largely depends on the ability to realize constitutional rights to work, to obtain higher education, to housing, to health care, to physical abuse. To the extent that it is possible to resolve these questions, life itself testifies. Let me give you just a few examples. By the beginning of 2002, a third of the unemployed were said to be young people. And the International Labour Organization claims that the unemployed are among the young. Three times more than official statistics. Let's add that to it. There is virtually no regulation for labour migration of more than 2 million citizens. It is clear that people are far from retirement age to earn their income. In view of this, economic mechanisms and incentives are needed in the shortest terms at the legislative level to ensure that new jobs are created for young people, both in general and in the first place, in particular. And a painful problem. Social orphans, vagrancy, begging. There is a steady trend, every year an increase in the number of minors who do not work or study anywhere. The health of young people. The situation is catastrophic. Believe me, it's not an exaggeration. In the last 10 years, the disease rate has increased by all classes of disease. More than 300,000 students and students have been referred to a special medical group in connection with unsatisfying health conditions. According to experts, 1 in 8 children is healthy when they go to school, and only 1 in 12 ends with normal health. The picture will be incomplete, not to mention that there are indicators that we're ahead of all of Europe, that's the rise in HIV-infected people, drug addicts, tuberculosis epidemics, the spread of diseases that are transmitted in different ways. Why aren't our laws working? More than 100 laws, 300 regulations, decrees, orders, about 200 youth programs? First reason. At a lack of financial and organizational level -- I emphasize, and organizational! - provision of already adopted laws, other legal instruments. Today, the lion’s share of the budget is directed, not at prevention, but at education, but at combating negative consequences. However, no matter how many rehabilitation centers, colonies, prisons we create, they will always be filled by 100 percent. The whole world invests money in health, and we are in hospital beds. New rules are needed to organise the budgetary process, regulate financial flows and develop inter-budget relations. This is particularly true with regard to the provision of education for children and adolescents and the support of the young family, the expansion of the network of extra-school institutions, and the improvement of the child-rearing system. In the near future, we will consider proposals for appropriate changes to the Budget Code. I hope that these changes will first and foremost affect the determination of the volume of inter-budget transfers for the benefit of local budgets. To conclude, I would like to emphasize that organizational, financial and educational provision is a necessary but not sufficient element. According to experience and demands of life, the sole guiding theoretical principle of all this activity must exist in order to consolidate efforts to provide patriotic education at all levels from village to capital. I mean, the state concept. It is based on its position at all levels of executive power that local self - government can be developed by specific programs and implemented in a single defined concept of direction. In summary, the state does not have a system of patriotic education. In Ukraine, there is no single focal point for the organization of this work. Regrettably, the National Youth Policy of the President of Ukraine has never raised any problems related to Ukraine’s future. A patriotic education program is needed. Ukraine has an invaluable historical experience of patriotic education. We do not need to be homeless, we do not need to be without memory, we do not need to be on Ukrainian soil temporarily, and then we can move the matter away. That's the main thing that can put patriotic education on a completely different level, is that it can morally heal our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u52	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We agreed for 30 minutes. Please explain to the board the names of the national MPs that are listed for the presentations on the subject under discussion. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Honorable People’s Deputies, Honourable Chairman, Highly Distressed Ukrainian People! The problem discussed today certainly applies to Ukraine’s future. I'd like to focus on a few aspects of today's problem that we're discussing is extremely important. First of all, I thank Valentina Ivanovna for her thorough report, and I'd like to thank you. And to wonder why, on such an important issue, he was unable to be present and speak out as Vice Prime Minister from the humanitarian field and other issues of Dmitri the Tobacco? What, are there more important questions in the state? There's a meeting at the chief chancellor's,--the tobacco guy here as well as here, all the media are showing. Today, the question is about the future of Ukrainian youth, about protecting the national interests of the state in the national-conscious and patriotic upbringing of the young generation and ensuring its development conditions, and there is no Tobaccoer. Well, they put one woman up, let her blow up for all the departments, all the state and all the government. True, the Supreme Council answered the same question, and it also put a woman to the same pain. So, dear friends, look at how normal those that were normal were the self-critical materials presented to us by the government. It even states that the government’s long-term credit scheme for education is not funded at all! It's a disaster! And then we hear in Valentine's Day that we're living in Switzerland. That's how I got the answers. And the report is critical, normal. I'd like to pay attention and I'm sick and tired of deciding on the inequality of children depending on their place of residence and birth, on the significant regional differences in pay rates, if in the Ternopil area, in other areas, 289 dollars, in Kiev, 801 dollars. Regional labour markets. If this ratio is 0.5 in Kiev, then in the Plain region, the Ternopilsky region is 6.9 on average, and let's say the Wolowitz region of Zacarpathian area is 16 percent! I mean, the ratio of 1 to 14, 1 to 20. How can we continue to live like this?Oh, my God! I'd like to hear what we're doing here to increase birth rates and conditions. I wanted to hear what we're doing to make a young man proud of his country, his president, his deputies. Please take a look at the apps we've been given. Half, 50 percent, would want to live in another country or move to another country. These are terrible numbers! And including the fact that we have access to public service for young people today is in violation of the Constitution of Law. I've been addressing the Prime Minister, I'm talking to you right now, I can't finish this thesis, I want young people to have access to the service, and Ukraine, with the arrival of young people, has had a strong development. And in order for us to be optimists to force officials to obey the law, I give the thesis of my speech to the Head so that at least they're in the transcript, and there who has the ears -- he will hear who has the mind -- he will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u54	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Prepare Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u55	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. We are all students of their Soviet school, and we remember well the names of heroes, patriots, lessons and classes in patriotism. Although I don't think everyone's been to those classes. in class, or they had a very bad memory that they'd forgotten everything so quickly. The school was the first chain in a unit for education and education. And what do we today have in our schools after so-called reforms in America, which is more tragic than the economy? And it's scary that there's a tragedy in the economy, there's a story about stealing and saving, and there's no one at school. No one is intimidated by the fact that our school has become the center of drug sales, but the teacher is the sole employee of the business. Let's go over the textbook pages. There's a total twist in the history of Ukraine. Everything beautiful is filled with dirt, greed, and vileness. Hence, adolescents have lost interest in traditional social values and institutions, traditional forms of recreation. They don't trust the adult world. And the army of unoccupied adolescents is on the rise. And the word "patriotism" they don't know. And everyone knows the truth: "The soul determines consciousness." What patriotism can you tell the soldiers of the Ukrainian army if they are demobilizing and are waiting for them to bring him clothes, shoes, because there is nothing to go home. Or any culture of communication in the army other than the motherhood of words. Degree also thrives in such a size that boys remain disabled for the rest of their lives. There are many examples of this in our city. For example, Chatohin Vitali of Kirovograd, a healthy man, went to the army where he was in Krivo Rog, became disabled there, and was not informed, not sent for treatment, and only after the intervention of Communists from our faction was he sent to the Kiev survey. What about the patriotism of the student who receives a 25-32 bracelet scholarship, and after finishing the school, he fills up a series of realtors in markets where he sees nothing but vodka and postage. What high standards of human morality, high patriotism, can be expected of street children who are over a hundred thousand in Ukraine? All of them, many of them, sit on a needle, drink alcohol, and, unfortunately, all of them are waiting for a roadside death. So today we must talk not about the upbringing of patriotism among young people but about the patriotism of those in power. First, we need to create normal living conditions and then talk about patriotism. Today, the word "patriotism" is somehow not consistent with our reality. That word has even come out of our vocabulary for 12 years. Are they patriots who have done terrible things to the country and its people? How much can be said of advertisements and militants who, with the permission of our authorities, corrupt and burn our young? After all, in just one day on 23 April of this year, there were 18 film fighters, 7 movies of horror and 12 films of sex. Is this specifically for patriotism? Many of those in power would answer me the way they're proud and they like to say that freedom has finally arrived, and finally the Iron Curtain has been removed. What is the curtain that is spoken of? Even if he was, he wouldn't keep us, gentlemen, from freedom, and he wouldn't let the world's evil go to you. You have received the richest heritage, and at the same time you have rolled it up, dragged it away from your home, destroyed everything that the Soviets left behind, not thinking about their children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u56	People's deputies are requested to comply with the Rules. Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Prepare Michael Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u57	Mikola Shershun, Ravenshing, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, members of the government, are invited. Recently, on television, he saw a story about a abandoned cemetery and was terrified. According to suspicion of vandalism, law enforcement officials detained seven children for 10 and 12 years. This case convinces us that today we are discussing an extremely important issue, I would say, fundamental to society. After all, the change in political systems has destroyed a whole set of national and patriotic upbringings for young people. Of course, the pioneer and cosmopolitan organizations that were active in youth were ideal, but in their 11 years of independence, the State was not offered anything just better, but virtually nothing at all. In this queen today, the vacuum and wine are almost complete, and so the responsibility for the situation is shared between the government and the Supreme Council and the authorities in the places. Of course, the situation is being changed by the ministries and committees, such as education and science, family and youth, cultures, and so forth. They carry out large, practically educational work, takeoffs, field meetings, excursions, tourist tours in historic places, ecological actions, festivals, and so forth. But their structures on the ground make it inconsistent and pretty qualms and one reason they're not complete and underfunded. The Family Building Development Program, fostering foster children, socializing drug addicts, is funded from local budgets, which means that these programs will either remain declarative or extend for decades. Even though it is now seen in the example of Equality that where rural workers work with young people, where cultural centres have been working, there is rest organized, and there is a level of education, and there is a sense of patriotism, and there is a level of crime among young people 10-12 percent lower than among neighbors, where young people are not cared for. It is not surprising where the state ceases to care for the national and patriotic upbringing of young people, where various social and religious organizations are activated, who are not aware of their funding and often promote anti - Ukrainian ideas. Therefore, I am convinced that we, the national deputies, together with the government, should take the next steps as soon as possible in encouraging local authorities. It is essential to develop the National and Patriotic Education Programme for Youths, which envisioned the creation of a single system of organizations and their state funding. As soon as possible, we need to adopt a number of laws, including cultural laws, on improving the tax system of cultural institutions, on art and sponsorship, on theatres, on non-profit organizations, where, among other things, we need to anticipate the release of theatrical institutions from taxes on land and the exemption from taxation in general, of the funds that earn themselves cultural and educational and artistic establishments, especially in the countryside. In completing my speech, I would like to remind the audience of the famous master of the opera Victor Astafiev: "In our children, we are like a mirror to God, to all the world and to all the people. And I wouldn't want this mirror to turn out to be wrong." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u58	Andrew School will speak instead of Pavlovsky, please. Prepare John the Rabbit. Is there a John Hare?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u59	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Ukrainian National Assembly I'd like to focus first on two aspects. We're talking about the patriotic upbringing of young people, the patriotic upbringing of young people of a conscious generation. So let's not forget that patriotism comes from the word "patria" -- home. And we have to talk here about raising love for this country, not for the state, not for the repressive apparatus that the state is now, not even for it, although it's a state matter, it's a state that has to make sure that the young generation grows in love for the country that gave them life. But we have the opposite effect right now. When asked by ten young people who are asked how they feel about their homeland, they will all say that they have a negative attitude toward the State, the repressive apparatus, the leaders who have no authority among young people, or among people, or among anyone. And they have their own lack of love for the authority that deserves this unlovingness, absolutely true, and they have transferred their dislikes to all the Ukrainians, to all the things associated with the Fatherland. And that's too bad. We can now prepare hundreds of projects, we can say a lot of words about this, but the truth remains one and the only one -- the lack of power on the part of the State, the lack of authority on the part of the Fatherland gives birth to the same lack of love on the part of young people in the country where they live and the authority that governs that country. What can we talk about here when a young person is now the most vulnerable categories of the population: young people, young people, and old generation. The older generation does not have a normal pension, cannot provide its old life, and young people cannot provide their young life because they cannot find a job, can’t study properly, and can finish a higher education. And all of these are not young, and all of this is not ours, even with you, it's the fault of those who break the state budget in our silent submission to this. There cannot be many young people in a poor country. But in a poor country, there may be young people who want a change that calls for older and middle generation to say that you don't have to live an old life, let's live a new life. Youths who must and should go out with their protests on the street and turn their dissatisfaction into power rather than extrapolate them to everything Ukrainian and everything related to their Fatherland. Believe me, this is not the State that young people want to leave, and they want to escape the self-absorbing and insufficient authority that is now in Ukraine. That's what this statistic says. And I'm sure it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u60	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine. Prepare Proscot Tamara.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u61	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We've been given excellent information and analysis material. We've heard a wonderful report from the committee head, but I'm not happy about it, because the reality is different. It's probably painted in black paint today, and we need to take a pretty critical look at this problem today and look for ways out of this problem. It is hard to talk about national conscious patriotic upbringing when our authority is not patriotic. For our authority, such a concept as the Fatherland is not appropriate. One thing that matters to them today is money, it's like grabbing it in your pocket. So the first thing to do is to make our authority patriotic, to update it, to allow young people to take office. We need a national program to raise our young people, which we do not have. In order for a person to be patriotic, the authorities need to ensure that this person realizes all the interests they have. To do this, first of all, you have to take care of your first job. Here we must recognize that our authority has failed this course today, today young people left to themselves. A particularly critical situation arose with rural youth, where they were released, as he said, "bread." And so we need to speak in a regional way. A difficult situation today for the western regions of Ukraine. There's no industry, it's all self-propelled, and there's big migration overseas. We should also talk about young people in Donbassa. The other one. Which nationalally conscious, patriotic upbringing can be talked about when we see a further process of ruseification, when we see an outflow of Ukrainian language from all spheres of social life, such as upbringing. These are educational programs, other measures. Is it possible to talk about national education today when there is no children’s, Ukrainian - speaking book? When we talk here, we discuss the authorities ’ proposals that children’s libraries should be reduced, brought together with other libraries. Dear friends! This is a dead end, we need to develop Ukrainian language, we need to make this situation so that the English language for young people is prestigious and fashionable. Third. What has happened to our sport, where the collective sports have been? All the resources are devoted to some kind of unanimity, no basketball, no football, nothing -- everything's jammed. That is, those kinds of sports that raise collectives that raise a sense of shoulder that raise patriotism. Here you have to work in this direction as well. And the last is State support for these measures. And we see how this is done, very often there are actions that don't raise our young in a patriotic way, in a national way, more than that, government funds go for encouragement, to take different groups from different countries to Ukraine. We cannot raise our young singers from other countries, we must support our culture, our science, and then we will have young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u62	Thank you. Tamara Proscuratov, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u63	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u64	Prepare Safiulin. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, our faction believes that the development of the Ukrainian state cannot be done without the development of the spirituality of citizens, the development of them on the basis of patriotism. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the State promotes the development and consolidation of the Ukrainian nation, although in fact the people of Ukraine are not yet a Ukrainian nation. Unfortunately, some politicians use both Ukrainian and UPA to create artificial watersheds between Western and Eastern countries. Thus, the young person’s view of a particular phenomenon depends on what the authorship of the aid came into her hands. Education contributes to the formation of young people’s patriotic feelings when they are of quality. During the years of independence, many have been made involved in the development of national education. And a new legislative base, textbooks, textbooks, updated content. But for a certain part of the youth, higher education is just a dream. So we think that one way to make higher education accessible is to lend it. We cannot help but note the facts by speaking of raising a national consciousness that young people have an interest in art, literature, and spiritual heritage. We share the opinion of the National MP, the head of the Family and Sports Committee, who have a negative impact on young generations on low - quality patterns of foreign mass culture, overcrowded with elements of cruelty, pornography, propaganda of strangers to the Ukrainian people of moral values. So our faction notes the need for Kabmin's decision to give a state license to distribute, to demonstrate movies, to protect the viewer from the propaganda of violence and cruelty. We note that today, in the context of patriotic education, there is a lack of films about the modern Ukrainian army, about the current military feats. So we think it's necessary to step up the work on military and patriotic education for young people, to step up the activities of military and patriotic associations. A family has an important role to play in the system of national awareness of patriotic parenting. There are government programs that we've been talking about. According to adults, there is a lack of funds and time among obstacles to national education. Although national dignity may be cultivated, pride for its people depends not only on material security but also on the family’s type, the culture of family relationships. So at the time of the development of a national patriotic programme for the upbringing of children in the family, taking into account the socio-economic and spiritual, moral state of families, the demands and needs of Ukrainian society. So we think that the results of patriotic and national education depend on solving the entire set of issues mentioned above, with close cooperation between the legislative and executive branches of government and the active involvement of the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Instead of the national deputy Safiullin, the national deputy Polit will speak. Prepare Gabrieluk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u67	Thank you very much. Komsomol Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The issue under consideration is of strategic importance to the future of our Ukraine. However, after hearing the reports, it is difficult not to come to two sad conclusions: first, Ukraine lacks at least some thoughtful concept of the patriotic upbringing of young people, secondly, most young citizens are reluctant to be the subject of this education, with little understanding of what “patriotism” is today. Twelve years of youth are self-sufficient. But the vacuum of her upbringing quickly filled TV and radio channels, boulevard books, and magazines. A large number of young people are the heroes of militants, thieves in the law, and criminals. It is no less hard to bring up a young person who is today’s harsh reality. Often, parents do not need their child to be brought up, but the family is the first and most basic unit of education for a young citizen. Not much better in kindergarten, in school, in college. But if there's a small amount of care in the kindergarten for children, students and students are presented to themselves. In colleges, patriotic education consists of student law at the polling station, forced voting for the right candidate. It is difficult to convince young mothers to respect the State that they receive the symbolic child-care allowance. Many young Ukrainian citizens are willing to seek happiness abroad. It seems to them that it is easy to find well-paid jobs with social protection. And at least the reality is much more complex, and many are severely exploited, almost half of the young people dream of overseas bread. These are the realities of the lives of young Ukrainian citizens. As a result, we have complete nihilism and the disappointment of a young person in the State. Equally indicative is the example of the Young Guard. I am grateful to my colleagues for their support for the decree of the sixtieth Youth Guard. But when I was in Krasnodon, where young patriots died, I felt terrible. Only gas pipes remain from the eternal fire. Everything else went wrong with the metal merchants. And even the President's decree, Kabmin's order, our order did not force the local authorities to order a memorial. The President's attention was only enough to go through a museum that had been cleaned even by its own staff and to perform at a rally where veterans had been through a metal detector. Of course, the President's security is sacred, the security of the State is secondary. Clearly, this is why, contrary to the pre-election promises of power, the museum has never been granted national status. The wealthiest experience, the unique school, the patriotic education of young people conducted and carried out today by the Komsomol cannot be rejected. The outcome of today's meeting should be that young people are Ukraine's strategic reserve. I therefore support Catherine Semenovna's proposal to adopt a national doctrine of the patriotic upbringing of young people. There is a need to reinvigorate student self-government in schools, to expand the powers of student professors, to maximize the dependence on the administration and the management of institutions. The State should influence the information policy of the media to seek and strengthen the patriotic education of young people. The Supreme Council, supporting the initiative of youth organizations, should play a key role in the legislative provision of patriotic education. Above all, patriotic education must be based on the glorious history of our people. In our hands, respectable colleagues, the future of Ukraine, and we must be aware of our responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u68	Thank you. Yes, Basil Gabrieluk. Please. And prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u69	Gavriluk, 147 constituency, Kremenchuk. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Among the issues that we are discussing today on Government Day is certainly the most important issue, since this is about the future of Ukraine. We certainly have certain acquisitions to create conditions for the upbringing of a patriotic Ukrainian new generation, but I think we need to examine today the causes of the crisis, where not only our economy, but also the moral and ethical principles of our society, education, culture, science and the building blocks of the young generation. And here we need, as they say, the truth to look into the eye. That's right. Today, the moral and spiritual degradation of society threatens the national security of the country. Unless this is evidenced by the fact that only 43 percent of young Ukrainians have answered the question of whether you would like to be born and live in another country. I will stop at the most painful problems for our people — education, health, ingenuity, drug abuse, and alcohol, insurrection, and lack of real opportunities for education and professional work. The root of most of the problems listed above is poverty for almost 28 percent of Ukrainian families. So if, on average, one household sends about 2 percent of the total cost to children in Ukraine, nearly a third of families are unable to raise children. Regrettably, this problem does not have a prominent place in the information material of the government. Overcoming poverty in Ukraine, the strategic objective of all branches of government and government structures, if 10 per cent of the richest people in the EU have a profit ratio of between 5 and 7 in the EU, 50 to one in Ukraine. Most of the population is in the midst of fairy - tale wealth, a small number of fellow countrymen are unethical, have no respect for the State, for the Fatherland, and do not promote unity and patriotic feelings. This activity should be based on an effective and flexible legislative framework for direct implementation of the laws already adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So first of all, we need to get rid of the widespread failures today to implement existing legislation, budget discipline violations, the inoperable use of available funds and contradictory actions. What we can conclude today. The protection of the nation’s national interests in the national conscious and patriotic upbringing of the young generation and the conditions for its development take place in the State budget and in its implementation. If our budget does not address the problems we have today, the declared concern for the patriotic upbringing of the young generation of Ukraine will remain on paper. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u70	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u71	Anatoly Moroz, 83 constituency, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, when you discover the government's analytical reference materials on this issue that we are discussing in this room today, you will see the following words: “the establishment of the sovereign democratic rule of law, its formation, its assertions cannot be achieved without the development of the spirituality of citizens, the upbringing of them on the basis of patriotism, respect for the historical heritage of the Ukrainian people, human values, social optimism. Last but not least, in our society, in our country, probably everyone sitting in this room can't see it, and we probably won't see it soon. Why? He had just heard his colleague, the national deputy, the representative of SDPU. And she said very well that we should stop what is being done on our television screens today, the same channels as 1+1, Inter and many other channels, sex propaganda, pornography, violence and so on. But you probably have to start with yourself first. And those channels that are today, or that affect the representatives of this party, have to be in order and set an example for others. The next moment. The main educator is the state education system, and today it is conducting a social request from the state if it is to raise patriots. Now, who's doing this job now, teachers-enthusiasts on a meager salary of up to 60, on an old and material base, for professional education and more patriotic work, you need professionals who are specially trained. Look closely at the material basis of this work and you will see that it is almost gone. Let's get a school in the country. Once upon a time there were powerful colosophies, racons, who had their heroes, their famous work, their battle traditions. Today, all of this has been destroyed. Rooms and museums, such as former farms, have been looted and nearly destroyed in such schools. The same is true in cities where factories and factories do not work. The history of the people has been so mutilated that the lectures, the teachers themselves do not even realize that they are sown in the soul of our children. The next moment. The socio-political and economic conditions in Ukraine as a whole and in its regions have led to the following consequences. The decline in the level of funding and the difficulty of social political, educational, sporting, cultural and educational measures, the decline in the number of sports sections, groups and other liberal institutions, not to mention the reduction and closure of schools themselves, the lack of sport and healthy lifestyles, the fall of interest and social motivation for military service, the weak physical and psychological training of young people, the virtually absent competitions for their preparation for service in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And the distinguished Valentina Ivanovna faithfully said in her report that in Ukraine the process of shaping the system of patriotic education was being completed. But agree that this system can't work if the economic system doesn't work, if the history of its own people is distorted, and more specifically, it goes against our recent history. And events in Lviv, the latest events are related to the celebration of May 9. If the programs that address the problem discussed in our room are not implemented, if the state does not finance these programs, will not care for the young generation, then we will not go to much trouble with blackmail and sponsorship. That's why I don't see social optimism in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u72	Olga Hinzburg, please. And we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u73	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! Hinzburg, 161th constituency of Konotapsk. I wanted to get out of the place. Speaking of rearing young people, I have two questions. At all the stations of our Ukraine, including my city of Konotapi, and the Kyiv train station, like the day, and especially at night, there's a very active activity of children who go from 6 to 8 years of age, they walk in 45th-size shoes, and they have 50th-size pants on them, they're all slimy, dirty. There's a lot of them. I saw a painting like this yesterday, and it's always been. The other one. At the Patton Bridge at the intersection, if you've been driving for several days, there's a woman, 25 years old, holding a little baby in front of her, maybe 1 year old. She asks for charity, in such a burning sun she stands and stands and stands. That's my question. Are we laughing today at hearing about the national conscious, patriotically oriented young generation? Who are we laughing at? I want all the time because my voters listen to me, I don't have a job, the kids freeze in school. A teacher who once did not know what it was like to keep a cow in a village, now plastered with this livestock, does not think about raising these children! I am no longer saying that as a personal example, every national MP, a civil servant, a minister should be an example in rearing young people, their own children, and other children. And there's nothing hard about it. Needs what? To give authority to the army, to pay the teacher a salary today, and to raise society to a high level, and to give work to young people. And there will be no problem in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The question of the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to protect the national interests of the State in the area of the national conscious and patriotic upbringing of the young generation and to ensure the conditions for its development. We have concluded our consideration of the matter. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, that is, the decision. I would ask the committee to work on this decision, taking into account the discussion that has taken place, taking into account the proposals that have been made here, so that we can vote on Thursday. Do you have anything to finish? Katerina Samuelk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u75	I just want to thank everyone for the kind comments that have been made. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like this decree to be adopted on the next Thursday. We really want to take into account all the comments that have been made so that it's not just raw material.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u76	Okay. There will be no objection. Valentina Ivanovna, will you assure and thank you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u77	Yes, of course. I want to thank the MPs for the speeches, for the extremely critical speeches and for the suggestions, and I hope for further cooperation for our children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We have a schedule for the Cabinet of Ministers on APC issues. There's a proposal for us to take a break, then consider information issues. It's suggested that we agree from the beginning: 15 minutes -- the Minister's speech, 25 minutes -- answers to questions, but we're adding grain and bread products, 5 minutes from the information committee, and then we're going to have a discussion about it in about 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, listen to me or I'll put it to a vote. We have a budget, we have other questions that concern the Hidden object, and we need to consider it today. I suggest then 20 minutes, we agree, so far, that's it. So we're on a schedule. The other one. Dear colleagues, after this question, we suggest that we consider the following: a draft law amending some of Ukraine's tax laws. [[on operations carried out at the expense of international technical assistance]] This refers to the construction of the Hidden. And at 16 p.m., we're going to go to the budget bill, because it takes a lot more time, and what's more, the budget committee is still sitting. Is there no objection? Then there's a break of 12 hours for 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u79	Invite the national deputies to the session room. We'll continue our work. The issue “Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on compliance by the executive authorities with the requirements of legislation in complex spring and field work and measures to ensure the enforcement of legislation in preparation for and implementation of the 2003 crop harvest”. At the same time, the minister will inform about the situation and the provision of bread and grain, as we agreed. Please report to the Minister for Agriculture Policy of Ukraine Sergey Mikolayovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The transitional period of market relations in the agricultural sector of our nation’s economy objectively motivates the Cabinet of Ministers to provide specific assistance to agriculture, especially during responsible periods of developing the material basis of food security. During these periods, we traditionally have a spring harvesting campaign. By not allowing administrative intervention, the government is carrying out organisational, material and technical, financial and economic support for the village in strict compliance with the requirements of legislation. The current situation in the Spring Field of the Cabinet of Ministers has been considered three times. A number of mobilization measures have also been taken with the participation of government members, directly in the regions. A special decree has been made by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the conduct of the field and spring work, which is being done today in full scope. This active position of government is based on extremely complex conditions that affect agriculture throughout the winter season. Dear National Deputies! You just got back from the county. You know the situation. I'm just going to say a little bit about the winter grain wedge, which is our main bread, which has suffered significantly in the larger half of the sown areas. According to the latest survey, 3 million remain to be collected. 700,000. acres of zing crops of 8 million 200,000 who have been sown, including winter wheat, - 2 million 700,000. One hundred acres, which is less than twice the average of five years. The situation was further complicated by the late spring. This delayed the deployment of mass fields for 25 to 30 days in regions. In addition, they increased further by 5.5 million. And so it's more than 20 million acres, and it's a bright wedge to process. hectares. Extreme weather conditions that have been and are now being observed continue to work beyond the reach of winter and bright cultures. Under these conditions, the government has taken measures primarily to support the financial support of enterprises. In four months, for the first time, but completely funded, all government budget expenditures are allocated to the agrarian sector. That's 332 million. or 41 million More than last year's time. In addition, another 28 million have been allocated. Money, like direct financial assistance to farmers affected by natural phenomena last year. A further 30 million from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund Money to provide assistance in connection with the passage of winters through the money - laundering mechanism. So this allowed us to get another 400 million. The money of the lost loans. Also in February, a state seed insurance fund was funded, and this helped to ensure that the seeds were fully grown. A billion nine hundred and fifty million dollars of credit were also involved, 1.5 times more than the corresponding date of the previous year. And it's gratifying that the rates for using commercial banks' loans for companies have dropped to 15 to 26 percent. Last year they were 27-28 percent. Of the local budgets for the development of the APC, nearly 51 million were also allocated. That's right. In terms of government, there is always a resource for agriculture. The market is filled with enough mineral fertilizers, plant protection products, prices for them, despite the increasing demand, this year are stable and can be said to be reasonable. The government has moved away from direct, that is, the supply of mineral fertilizers and plant protection products, through market mechanisms. As a result, more than 400,000 mineral fertilizers have been imported into the active substance and will be used in general 1.5 times more than last year, which is particularly important under these conditions. As far as technical security is concerned, 405,000 tractors are involved in spring-field work, which is 30 percent more than last year. In part of the region, for the first time in a number of years, the technique of such aggregates was even organized during the night. In our view, the government has managed to master the old problem of providing the village with oil and oil materials. So far, companies have 290,000 tons of diesel fuel, which is 20 percent more than last year. There are still 700,000 tons of wholesale suppliers at the warehouses. But in our view, the main positive factor is stable fuel prices, and for the first time in years, they have a downward trend in rising demand. If in March the price of diesel was 1,680 dollars, you can now buy, and you know that, for 1,490 dollars, that's even down 11 percent. Of course, the question is, What is the practical result? In our view, the main thing is that in the regions, largely, it has been possible to provide a high rate of work, which is important in this year’s specialities. Within two weeks, nearly a million hectares of roller coasters were sown each day. Despite the fact that spring allowed us to enter the field almost a month later, the condition on yesterday was sown 17.5 million acres [2 million ha] of high - quality crops, even more than it was on that date last year. Ninety - one percent of the dead in the winter grains were resected. However, honorable national MPs are not even half the case yet. The situation in the fields remains extremely tense and even alarming. The winter wedge is united, it's still not falling out, the bright grains, though sown in a short period of time, are still affected, and the influence and you're watching them: the high temperatures, the moisture deficit and today most of the areas are in a depressive state. The fourth part of the economy is in a difficult financial situation and cannot take credit for various reasons and needs clear foreign aid, especially State aid. Under these conditions, the government has taken additional measures to support the technological cycle of agriculture in particular, since only one billion 200 million dollars have been spent to move peasants. A decision has been made by the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate an additional 626 million dollars to agriculture. Of these, 400 million are for the production and formation of grains through a system of mortgage operations. 150 million for the promotion and development of animal production. 50 million dollars for farms that are in clearly complex weather conditions and need direct subsidies. And 26 million for the cost of electricity, which is used in the oil in the meliorated areas. These proposals are addressed to the Supreme Council as amendments to the 2003 Budget Act, and we ask you, honourable national deputies, to support them, and this will be a very specific and very timely aid to the village. We also ask for approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on amending the Budget Code to channel money from overturning the income portion of local budgets to support farmers. We suggest in each region that we also find some reserves of support so that the total amount of support is also made up of regions of another 630 million dollars. An important task is to settle issues with the National Bank regarding the extension of the repayment of loans by farmers to commercial banks by at least 1 November of this year and to determine on individual loans the maturity for the following year. We also prepared and corrected the relevant materials. Regrettably, in 2003, a number of farm-supporting laws ended, a fixed agricultural tax ended, a special tax treatment for added value, a subsidy for livestock was abolished. New tax burdens will result in pension reform. In this regard, we ask the distinguished national deputies to extend the terms of these laws and to bring them into line, as well as to adopt a number of new laws that will give a new impetus to the development of the agribusiness complex. We prepared them, too. It is worth noting that out of all sectors of agriculture, the most difficult situation is today in the field of grain farming. The government, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is giving priority to the problems of grain production for today, taking additional organizational, technical, psychological financial measures, as I report, to take into account the major natural disasters of the "Zerno-2003" programme. Depending on the situation of the winters, the primary priority for us is the preservation of seed and food funds. To this end, all available seed areas of the winter wheat have been transferred to intensive technology, accounted for, and left for autumn sowing, all the remaining seeds of the winter wheat. Food grains are also reviewed from the point of view of their possible use for sowing purposes. It's possible, according to previous calculations and analysis, to take away many 600,000 tons of such seed for sowers, that's a third of the autumn needs of the whole seed. The structure of the sown areas changes dramatically. Other crops — maize, soybeans, rape, potatoes, and food crops — will be more sown. It is worth noting that the State is now storing all the possibilities for full food supply. Osima and the yoke of wheat have been translated into intensive technology. This technology provides for the extraction of exclusively food grains. The village has already begun its second feeding of the winter and the spring wedge. So if even out of the four million hectares of winter and hot wheat available to reach even the average of the last five years of harvesting, the gross congregation will fully provide for the annual need for food grain and the full need for sowing purposes. However, for us today, for this to happen, the main goal of achieving it is proper care throughout the whole vegetation period and quality. harvest. For example, the present situation in the grain market and the state of food supply for bread is worth mentioning. Indeed, in February-March, demand for food grain has increased significantly in the internal market of individual regions. As a result, prices increased significantly. It means grain. The government has taken intervention measures, and the situation has been going on for two months, and you see it as stable. There is every reason to say that it will remain stable and that the prices for bread and bread will remain constant because the food grain balance is positive and sufficient for the new crop. If specific, food grain subjects under the Grain Act and the corresponding decree of the Cabinet of Ministers have already given us a declaration on the availability of whole grain and food grain. That is, the last declaration we received in April states that 50 or more tons of such grain are stored in those subjects. Every month, I can tell you, we have 600,000 tons of grain in the country. So for a new crop of three months, it's going to take about 1 million 800,000 tons. In addition, substantial stocks, sufficient supplies, are grains and flour in the national reserve. And today even the supply of flour is somewhat higher than its demand. However, it does not mean that there is no problem. We're just talking about reality. Indeed, the market for grain in the country is not yet definitively regulated, resulting in price distortions, food shortages, the destruction of the economy of grain producers and especially of farmers, if they have a profitability of only 4.6 percent today, it goes to money laundering. The Cabinet of Ministers is actively working on the organization. setting up a system of economic scales for regulating the grain market. In the development of the grain - market law, eight regulations of a normative nature have been adopted recently by the Cabinet of Ministers. Among them is the declaration of grain, the collateral transactions with grain, and 70 million is allocated for the cost of credit, which will provide an additional 1 billion dollars for the purchase of grain; the double stock testimonies, the draft law already in the Supreme Council; the certification of grain stocks, an extremely important decision that helps us; the state-of-agent in the grain market; the commodity exchange; the restructuring and financial recovery of the DAC of the Bread of Ukraine and others. On the day-to-day basis, 15 draft decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers for the development of the grain and grain market law. That's what remains to be stressed that no administrative action that is inconsistent with existing legislation or international standards has been or will not allow the Cabinet of Ministers to do so. Dear National Deputies! We are aware that the need to address the current issues in agriculture is evidence of the need for accelerated further large-scale reform, introduced. State support for the sector. In a short time, the Cabinet of Ministers introduced to the Supreme Council 10 drafts relating to the APC. Another 12 bills are in the process of being drafted and it's very good that the Supreme Council Committees have just supported them to look at them in a package and set aside time for that. It has also been prepared with the committees and factions of the Supreme Council for a large-scale bill on the promotion of production and the development of agricultural production. The adoption of this law will allow for an effective mechanism of full state support for agriculture, create a single system of expanded production, which means achieving the main goal of ensuring profitable, profitable farming in rural areas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u81	Yes, thank you. The report is complete. Let us turn to the question to the reporter. We agreed on 20 minutes, right? Please sign up for the question. Please sign up, 20 minutes. Please give us a list of names. National Deputy Kalinchuk, faction of the Agrarian Party. Vasil Calinchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u82	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich, the peasants really did a huge amount of spring-field work this spring. But in view of the large movement of winters, as you have talked about, the structure of agricultural crops changes. Food production is projected to decline. So I have this question about whether the government is planning to buy through different structures: government, maybe commercial, feed and technical cultures, and the structure, I said, changed for export. For export. In return, import food. Because for most countries, it's a normal thing, one product is exported, another product is imported. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u83	Thank you. Indeed, the government has set a goal, and with the help of the Supreme Council, of course, it will carry out this year’s work to establish a complete system of collateral transactions with grain. That's the first one. And the second is to build up intervention funds for food and feed grains. Of course, this year we're going to have fewer wheat, which means we're going to have fewer food supplies. But it was sown 1.7 times as many yokes, especially barley. That's enough barley today. A good market is a significant export potential. But today the question is not clear whether it is a State that will buy them for export. The State must be at the expense of the Intern. purchases and mortgages, and that's a billion dollars worth of money. And if the Supreme Council supports this 400 million. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} That's a billion 400 million. 400 million -- government -- and a billion -- commercial -- at the expense of it. As loans, of course, two and a half can be purchased and three million tons of bread purchased, which will be able to regulate the internal and even the external market for grain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u84	Gennady Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u85	Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, your report and some optimism inspires but more pessimism. And in Soviet times, and in independent power, we still have some problems with agriculture. I remember 1955, I was picked as the head of the colza and all the winter, a hundred percent, then died in Kiev, not just in Kiev, in many regions of Ukraine. Now we have the same system. That's right, general. And to my question, have you answered to some extent already, when colleague Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich asked this question, I wanted you to say a little bit more specifically, do we have a state reserve of grain today? The gossip is that there is no such reserve and that the state reserve is zero. I'd like you to answer that question. And the second question. Is there really a need to buy seed for a new crop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u86	Thank you. First of all, thank you for that position, really, as I was saying, to raise the question that today the Supreme Council should inform and listen to about the preparation and conduct of spring and field work, which means that we have to accept it. And we've prepared a basic law on agriculture, on its support, to finally remove the issue of these fluctuations in agriculture and its stagnation, if you will, for some time. The other one. Does the State have a national reserve? There is. And he's enough. I can't, unfortunately, name the numbers, I can't officially tell you in the proper order. But it was this reserve that allowed us to remove some of the tension of the grain that occurred in February-months in certain regions because of the excessive exportation. That's the first one. And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u87	Is there enough grain to buy it abroad?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u88	Of course. We have an insider, it's according to official declarations, the seeds are enough for a new crop. But in my information, I've informed the people's deputies that we have about 600,000 grains out of that amount. Ton as an osmia wheat that can be translated into a group of seed resources and used for the sowing of winter. So because we can't buy, at least in large quantities of seeds, because it's not districted, and it's extinct in Ukraine by other foreign varieties of selection. And in order to fully provide, this amount of grain that will be transferred to seed funds can be unscrupulously seen in our view. start at import. What's more, let's think about the logic of common sense: if we need grain in the Lugansk region, in Donetsk and so on, where better to buy -- in the neighbouring region and in the Russian Federation or in the Winnicki or Hmelni district. So we're talking about export-import operations, and if we're short, we're going to drive 500-600 thousand tons, and we're going to save ours for seed purposes, it wouldn't be a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u89	Mikola Noshchenko, if you please, the faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u90	160-1 constituency. Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich! I'm a member of the Budget Committee, and I'm looking at a project, and today it's going to be announced where there's going to be an extra huge amount of subsidies for agricultural producers. And I would like to ask this question: Will those areas that are frozen be included in frosts in such a state that they need constant state support? In your previous responses, you once promised that such a concept would be taken into account, such as depressed agricultural areas, and that the issue of State support would be resolved. Today my district is five districts, four of which are depressive. This is according to your findings according to the quality of the earth. What I'd like to say is, how are you going to take this state support into account? Please give your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Of course, 626 million dollars compared to the funding that is actually being made, is indeed a huge figure, but compared to the need and with those countries where not $33 per hectare of support, but more orderly, that's a pretty small number, more than when the village, we all agree, is suffering from serious natural disasters. The Ministry of Agrarian Politics has offered all 600 million dollars directly to direct funding to these depressing areas. But the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and the entire Cabinet of Ministers agreed that this is too difficult for an active budget and very little real. Secondly, we have made such a compromise that this year, after all, we will finally launch a system of seed-based and integrated procurement. We're just asking for your support, distinguished national MPs, at least 50 million dollars to allocate direct grants to those very depressing territories, this is Polissa, from Sum, Chernigov to Žitomir, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lucca and so on. And the central part of Hersonska and some others, where the absolute drought is now 18 to 20 centimeters of total dry soil and osmia and yoke too depressed. We have a long-established and a few years in place to make use of these funds. And there's an appropriate article in the budget, so we don't have to change anything, it's tested. The account room, the KRU, has been checked many times, the system is functioning normally, purposefully, so it just remains to increase from 4 million to 56 million in this article, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u92	Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u93	Please pass the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u94	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u95	Alexander Moroz, Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Sergey Mikolayovich! I've known you for a long time, and I know you as a good, experienced leader. And that's why I'm so concerned today with your kind of cheery speech on the rostrum, because you can't help but know that the state of affairs of the APC is much worse than the one you're characterizing. Yesterday I traveled to Poltava and Sumskia, Piratińskia, in the Lochvice region. Believe me, half the land is not plowed along the way. It's on the back of a rudder. After the sunflower, no one did anything, there's a tractor moving in the field, there's a catastrophe today, there's an adventurous reform under the leadership of the President, you know that. So I only have two short questions to ask you: Who forced me to do the adjectives last year? Because it wasn't 40 million, it was 26 million, you know that. And the second. Where is the money going to go, who's going to charge the mortgage, let's say, for intervention purposes, I mean, 600 million dollars. Whether it's the D.C.A. or the D.C., or whether it's the Ministry, how it's going to be done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovitch, in such circumstances, to sow 17.5 million and today I am not encouraged, and here the whole state is listening, telling us that we have sown, we will not see to it, we will see to it. God forbid, at least I have a couple of rains in here right now, we're waiting for them. That's the first one. The other one. We hide that we have 4.6 million hectares today in pairs. We've issued instructions and recommendations at selectors' meetings where we've gathered all 63,000 executives so that the sunflower doesn't get caught this year and we've moved them and prepared them for the sowing of other late crops, so that it's a clean couple, so that it doesn't waste the last energy in the sunflower area, but switch them only to cultures where we can get more real crops, that is, where it's stored. What's more, today 3.5 million are not sown, those that are sown are Greek, millet and another million hectares of corn we plant. And we have our own seed native and in sufficient quantity and the Cabinet of Ministers funded this program completely and thank you. So I can't share and perceive whether it's a warning or a thought that we have in the country or there's an adjective on the grain. No one forced anyone. It's my responsibility. And we, like every structure, are governed by statistical reporting. But today, 24 percent of the grill is located in 4.5 million rural farms. Six hundred and fifty thousand farms joined the lawless pies without creating a legal person. And these areas, and the grains of 9 million tons are accounted for by a simple classic that operates in other countries, technology through surveys, sample tests. If it wasn't for that and we didn't have a plus-minus 10-15 error, although 10 percent is a permissively civilized error, I would say, today a program is being developed to account for how Europe is doing, and not just leading, from space observation there to 1 square meter, everything is clear. This program is done and so is done. The second question. It's for the cost of collateral transactions. It's going to be a state agent. It's going to be a decision. Moreover, adopted in the person of the DAC "Ukrainian Bread," because according to the current legislation, the state agent may be the one with at least 70 percent of government property. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers has decided to set up a debt restructuring agency for DAC "Ukrainian Bread". And this agency is subordinated to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics, and the Ministry of Agrarian Politics has, unfortunately, taken responsibility for debts of almost 600 million dollars. Thus, before harvesting the DAC "The Bread of Ukraine," in short, is cleared of debt, becomes a clean, transparent state structure and, according to the Grain Act and the Cabinet of Ministers decree, will bear full responsibility for the use of funds under direct control of the Cabinet of Ministers as a structure subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u97	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u98	Dear Sergey Nikolayevich, you have reported here how these more than 600 million will return to the crops that have died. Clearly, it's trouble. You even named the priority areas where that money would go. And according to the pattern shown today on the monitor, it was also shown that the Lugansk region is not too affected, so to speak. She's one of them. On this subject, let's say, easily separated, so to speak. But it's a subject in another. You said today that this money would go on this very subject. And in the Lugansk region, the area of risk farming, they've long forgotten what rain is, the wheat will drop ten centimeters of colossus. I'm interested in how you and your department are monitoring the situation here. And most importantly, how will they help the area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u99	Thank you. I wasn't in Luhansk too long ago. Moreover, I remember well that three years ago and three years ago, it was the Luhansk region that helped the most because there was indeed a severe drought. What I call "special areas" doesn't mean they're the ones. It was only for example. We have the only system in the country to identify the affected regions. There are corresponding committees, there are corresponding lists of documents. It is accepted from agriculture to the central executive body, the ministry. And these respective committees make decisions, they give consideration to the district administrations of agriculture, and they determine who is the most affected and how to use these funds. It's a completely transparent mechanism, it's not going to be "all by the bracelet," it's going to be within the limits of those who have suffered the most. And second position. We also support the direction that it is to help those who today have reasons and positions to maintain the best osmium and hot grain wedge in order to obtain a sufficient gross harvest of grain and food, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u100	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikolayovich, you may remember that all past harvests must have been completed by about 10 former Prime Minister Kinakh who assured Ukraine that the grain market would be completed, so the grain market would be completed and order would be here. We can see where it all led to. I don't know what your fate is in all of this, but I'm curious about one question. We don't live on bread alone. Yulia’s bloc, Timoshenko, offered to consider 20 numbers on Ukraine’s food security. There is not only grain but also other directions of food and is no less important than bread. As you look at it, to take a broad view, with the determination of an expanded consideration of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u102	Thank you. I'm looking at this completely negative and I'm going to tell you why. Because today there is no basis and every impartial person knows that all kinds of food in our country of production are completely and completely sufficient. Not only is it not enough that not everyone can buy a higher consumer basket each time. The only thing we need to do is work to raise wages. In two years, we have increased the export of not only grains but also meat, milk, and many other products by 1.7 times. As a minister, I'm very concerned from the point of view that we have an internal market for consumption not as fast as agricultural production is increasing. And in four months, it increased by 15 percent. So, as far as food security is concerned, we do not need to be distracted from reports together. Today's task -- for food security to continue -- is to take into account the specifics of the year and help agriculture take care of crops, grow, flood lands run, and thus get our nation's food independence again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u103	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. We agreed to discuss this for 20 minutes. Please give a list of the names of the national deputies on the sign-up board. I'm sorry. Excuse me, but now we've agreed on five minutes of information for the committee head, and then we'll move on to the speeches.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, members of the government! First of all, let us express our gratitude to our village, which vividly demonstrates the Ukrainian qualities of industriousness, love for the earth, and even heroism in today’s unforgivable conditions. The situation in the village is really, without exaggeration, complex in all respects. Unemployment, moneylessness, and rural areas are desolate. The situation is known to have been examined in detail at Parliament’s hearings on January 15 of this year. But in practical terms, little has been done. Hence, it is suggested that there was no complete awareness of the adverse effects of the country’s crisis. It is important to determine that a significant legislative base for the agricultural sphere has been developed by the Ukrainian national deputies of this and past appeals. One of the main causes of our troubles is that the vast majority of agrarian laws are not being implemented. Motivation. Usually, it's one thing: there's no financial security. A red - language illustration of this is the Law on the Priority of Social Development of the Village and the Agricultural Complex in the People’s Farms. If it had been done for ten years, perhaps the village would have had a completely different share, it would have received about one billion dollars a year. The same is true of the act of encouraging agriculture for the period 2001-2004. An extremely critical park of grain harvesting technology, which accounts for only 48 percent of the need. This was due to the failure to comply with the requirements of legislation regarding State support for agricultural machinery. One of the important ways to overcome the crisis in the provision of grain harvesting techniques is to enable agricultural producers to obtain partial cost compensation, which the committee repeatedly insisted on. As a result of the failure to implement current legislation on the cost of insurance payments at the expense of the State budget, compulsory insurance for agricultural crops, the loss of agricultural enterprises during the winter and spring 2003 will result in losses of almost 2 billion people. That's right. Special mention should be made of the importance of implementing the grain and grain market law, which provides for formation at the expense of the State Budget for Innertive Resources of Contingent Price Grains. To the extent that this is important, the situation of past years is convincing. Yes, with nearly forty million crops for two years, Ukraine is purchasing grain instead of having at least three to five million in reserve. That's right. And this question would not stand in the order of the day. It's all happening against the background of a general socio-economic crisis in terms of long-term price imbalances and deepening imbalances in intersectoral relations. Such an approach to agrarian legislation greatly compromises both the legislative and executive authorities. What's the big deal? It gives birth to national deprivation to the result of agrarian transformations, the rebirth of Ukrainian peasants as masters, and the whole strengthening of the right to privacy in the Ukrainian village. The issue of land law reform was considered on the government’s 12th of April of this year. It should be noted that some 50 laws relating to land relations are now registered on the committee. At the same time, 21 land laws and 38 regulations were adopted for all the callings of the Supreme Council. In general, nearly 120 agrarian bills have been considered by the committee. This once again testifies to the need for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the doctrine of agrarian politics, as provided for by the Supreme Council’s decree. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from the Minister's information that the government, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, are making efforts to improve the situation with the completion of the spring-field work and the harvesting of this year's harvest. While we must not overlook the fact that the situation in the countryside requires more detailed corrective action. The government's proposal for an additional allocation of 600 million dollars from the State budget for 2003 to support agricultural producers needs support along with ensuring their most efficient use. At the same time, however, it is necessary to take the following steps: to improve the existing system of taxation of agro-industry and its consolidation in the Tax Code; to take urgent steps to support the shadow policy on animal production; and to take measures to stabilize the development of animal production in a very negative way; to reform the reporting system and its objectivity in relation to price policies on the grain market; to place all forms of ownership of agricultural products at the level of agricultural producers; to reform the reporting system and its objectivity is one of the key conditions for influencing agricultural pricing; and, in general, the food security of Ukraine; and to regulate the intersectoral relations of the land market; and to strengthen agricultural infrastructure. And last of all, we have to establish in the village economic relations that would ensure a decent life not only for a peasant but also for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Puzakov, the next Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u106	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština I would like to begin with the question that the harvest is about when not only our Kirovograd region but Ukraine has nothing to throw into the ground. I think we need to discuss in detail today the holding of spring-field jobs, although it's too late. During those years, there was no greenery in the fields, and today there is no greenery in the plains. But it is impressive in the fields, and perhaps it is not without reason, even though the authorities are hoping for one obstacle that farmers cannot overcome — that is, unfavorable weather. It is, but let's look at the truth in the face, for example, in our Kirovograd area, everyone died, almost 80 percent had to be sifted, and what? And whether they've been sifted, because there's no high-quality seed insurance funds in the area, there's no extended lending of peasants, even though there's a report. And yet, there is no basic culture of agriculture. Next. The village’s main production funds have been destroyed, and over 90 percent of tractors, plows, seedlings, and combines have served their age. For example, there were 1,211 tractors in the Malovsky region in 90, and today there were 313. The grain combines were 951, now 93. And this is because in the area of Lan today, Alexandria City, there are three models of combines and all models have passed state trials and are recommended for a series of releases. But since 97, only 147 combines have been released. Why? And because the state wears a snot to its own manufacturer, it doesn't need its own manufacturer. The Kirovogradians know well that all the cabinet officials except Janukovic and Viktor Fedorovich visited this concert, but they never opened the Green Street combine. And what's the problem with spring-field work to bring to bear the crimes that are being created in the New Ukraine region? Which I have talked about several times and asked questions about. And lawlessness is hooliganism, banditism, in other words, not to be called, they are created for the well-known heads of the regime and fornicators of order. This happened on April 22nd, when a foreign tractor illegally ran the land at the Levels. Agriculture experts immediately filed a statement with the police, the prosecutor's office requesting to stop the illegal incursion, violence, assault on the property of the collective economy, but the law enforcement authorities in the district, according to Ogora's CSP, did not respond to the conflict, nor did they even register the statement made by the head of the Torshin militia. And also in the presence of the chief of police and the head of the DAY Arkan Paradise Department, the owner of the new form, and he has not yet threatened and promised to deal with the violence and physical destruction of the heads of the Levels and the members of the government. And in this situation, even none of the authorities stopped such a daredevil, but they continued to listen to the new Ukrainians who continued to threaten, so shut up and don't let your nose slide, because we're going to get rid of you. We have permission to fire. We shoot each other, the other knows. I would like to know what the head of the Ballan regime was doing when he signed a lease on the land to a new landlord. This is how they do spring work in the Ukrainian region, led by the head of the Balan administration and the law enforcement authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u107	The word is given to Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich, the next Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u108	I'm not breaking the rules. Melnik, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Mr. Gennady Andriyovich, I would like to inform the national deputies and the Ukrainian people that a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the study of the situation in Ukraine with grain and bread has been established on 3 April. We held our first meeting, where we worked out the direction of the work. U.S. authorities and regions of Ukraine have received appropriate requests from the commission. But I would like to refer to the regional leaders, the leaders of Ukraine's authorities, that our officials are not in a hurry today to respond to requests sent from the interim commission of inquiry. Those responsible for creating appropriate conditions for the work of this commission are in no hurry today in the Supreme Council. No room, transportation, or technical facilities are available to the commission today. Everything is delayed, they say: there is no room. Please give a very serious, extremely serious question to Ukraine's security. And I'd like to ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to give the opportunity to work as a temporary commission of inquiry to tell the people of Ukraine and the people's deputies what happened to the grain in the country last year. Of course, I have some sympathy for Sergey Mikolaiovich, who reported, I also feel sorry for Mr. Kirilenko, because there is no exception that today's events in agriculture, in autumn or in winter will again arrest people, but not those who are guilty, and those who, I apologize, are said to be the scapegoats of forgiveness. What's wrong with both reform and other issues is that it's within such officials that they just have to keep things quiet. Why is it that today, 30 million who were set aside about a month ago to cope with the effects of the fall of the winter, have not reached any region today? You see, the Ministry of Finance, where 2,000 workers worked, failed to create a method. What is this? I'm not sure there's 26 million to wait for in the lobby here. Why isn't it directed? Today, there is no osmium. Winter is dying, and we're waiting for the government to give us the money. Your Honor, this is our country. Ukraine’s socialist party will demand an announcement on Ukraine’s state of emergency in agriculture. Relevant statements will be prepared for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! You know, there are now members of the monitoring committee of the Council of Europe headed by a lady. Now they're in this bed. Let's welcome them. The word is given to Volodymyr Lechchenko. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u110	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Today, it is often heard from the authorities that the lack of the pace of reforms caused by the backlog in the agricultural sector, as in the whole of the agro-industrial complex of the state, is the cause of all the problems in rural agriculture. To put it mildly, that is not the case. The main reason is the wrongness, the one-sidedness, the contradiction of these reforms to the mentality of the Ukrainian people. Since ancient times, he has been drawn to collectiveism, to mutual assistance, to the social nature of the organization of coexistence in the countryside. Therefore, the borrowing of a measure of unity, strife, hostility, survival, and exploitation of wealth at the expense of a fellowman is in no way entrenched in the minds of our people. Governments change quite often and they do not have the power to do so, and the President and his team are stubbornly unable to understand it, so they are forced to force the Ukrainian village to own private property and private-owned forms of agricultural production organization, the pressure of peasants to create agricultural cooperatives or collective enterprises to face outright opposition from government administrations of all levels. Its forms are different: from psychological pressures to restrictions on the support of subsidized loans, material and technical resources, etc. This is a very serious mistake, or even a conscious act of executive power after the repression of the village and the peasant. If someone in this country is thinking of doing something to benefit their people, first of all it is necessary to give the peasants the opportunity to do it in a democratic society, to choose for themselves the form of ownership and the form of farming in the country. As far as the legislative framework is concerned, it is quite comprehensive in all cases of life. Another point is that it does not satisfy the country’s reformers in their attacks on the state. To national wealth. Thus, laws are not enforced by executive authorities in favour of the development of the village and the agro-industrial complex, the collective agricultural enterprise, the promotion of domestic agricultural machinery, and some others. Thus, the authorities allow the various brokers and repurchasers to continue to rob the peasants like glue and to destroy the village in general. That is why Ukraine is gradually becoming a major food producer and exporter and other APC products into their importer. Do temporary governments influence the situation in the countryside, I mean improving it? No, they're not. Hence, they seek only to play the role of a fire crew or a special unit in the process of covering the holes. And now everybody's spreading their hands: save the extreme weather, the winter was freezing, and now it's going to burn and so on. Is this news? We all know that Ukraine is in the risk zone of agriculture. But unfortunately, today, the agricultural system is destroyed, the agro-fund is useless, the scientific rationale for the exchange is not there, and the melio-orative systems are not working at all. Therefore, the government’s proposals for an aberration of the rural situation today merit attention, and they do not solve the problem at all. The country’s agricultural and budgetary policies regarding agriculture and rural areas need to be radically changed. They're not here yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u111	The word is given to Michael Antonovich Pavlovsky, next to Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u112	Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, "Fathership", Hmeljničina. Honorable members of the national MPs, members of the government, journalists! I want to draw attention to the strategic problems associated with agriculture. We've already felt and the President has admitted, our greatest misfortune of market romance, of the ideology of banana republics: the market settles everything, the market destroys everything. And so, Ivan Grigorovich, you said on TV several times, "Everything settles the market." So I want to tell you a very simple thing. The state should not only be a buyer and a seller, but a state must be an organizer. Therefore, the factors of production of Seia, those who study students: “Capital, work and land” is not complete. And Marshall said, "You have to add an organization to this." And I'm adding an innovation process. And that's what the state has to do. Therefore, the state should not see what is happening calmly; it should actively shape this strategy, support it, as developed countries do. You can try to bring sugar imported or milk to Finland, or even to the United States. There are so many additional congregations that no one will take them there. And today we have sugar plants stopping, everything is, drive. And the food problem isn't because there's no goods, you can move everything, and the food problem is that the population of Ukraine can't eat those products. Our country, Ukrainian, is able to feed 250 million people when it is properly organized by the scientific community of the state! We now have fewer than 42 million living in the area physically, and 80 percent are outside the poverty line! Go away for once, I'm not telling the President, you go away, and I was in the Kyiv region in the village of Gorbachevka. One young man for the whole village! What do you want? They live like two thousand years ago -- natural agriculture. They won't get out of town because there's nothing to do. So, ladies and gentlemen, we need a strategic approach, we need to organize and we need to put food security issues on the table, and we need to consider not in the sense that we can bring everything, please, but on the other hand, we need to defend the interests of not just the village, not the mafia that runs the agricultural products, but the direct manufacturer. And on a scientific basis, let's approach that. Now, if everyone understands, in industry, the innovative development law of Tugan-Baranovsky is crucial, then in agriculture, cooperation should be the main one. And instead of the concentration of production, Ivan Grigorovich, I want you to listen to the Deputy Prime Minister, Ivan Grigorovich! I want you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u113	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u114	Then I can't finish because he won't listen. So agriculture should be based not on fragmentation, but on concentration and a purposeful solution to all problems. It's just that the market settles, so it destroys everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u115	The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. The next Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u116	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable People’s Deputies, Multitude Ukrainian People! We're looking at the survival of the Ukrainian nation today, because this issue, the compliance of the executive authorities with the requirements of legislation in the implementation of the spring-field work package and the enforcement of legislation in preparation for harvesting, is indeed. The question of the survival of our nation. We're going to be looking at the draft budget bill with you, and today it's probably 116 million. for the acquisition of agricultural equipment under financial lysis and partial cost compensation. This sum should be at least ten times higher in order to have a completely different rate today. What 140 Lan combines are released all the time is really just a drop in the sea. I'd like to sharpen the problem of speculative financial resources -- problems. Look at the table given today by the government, thanks to them, and the Cabinet, and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, about the state of crediting enterprises to the agro-industry complex. Almost all areas took loans from the 20s to the 23rds, or even 27-28 percent. And the funding rate is seven percent of the National Bank. Where's the other delta? What is the profit of bankers? Why should they take advantage of the countryside? Why should they take advantage of what the State gives them today for free? Why 7 and 20 percent or 27 percent? These are two big differences. There's banks living. You should probably pass a law on the return of all of this because it's state-owned, it's not earned! And then we say it is, and the cattle are cut out, and it's like that with the grain, and it's being exported by the holder. You know, today is planned for sugar-cheese, and it's already causing damage and today's sad moods in the village. In recent years, imports of goods into special economic zones and areas of priority have increased in order to implement supposedly investment projects in the food industry, especially meat and food products of the domestic bird. This imports already accounted for 29 percent of the total quantities sold by domestic livestock producers and birds to processed businesses. And about 50 percent of the total meat production of brothers. Please consider these so - called free economic zones for tax and customs benefits, which have been given priority over other domestic producers, and the total benefits of 560 million dollars. Compare to the 116 that we put on the technique, and here we throw the benefits abroad. Look what they're importing! Import imported meat, poultry’s meat products 2.2 per kilogram, and the value of 4.5 bracelets. Will she survive? So we urgently need to take action. And I support what the government is doing today, and Ivan Grigorovich, you and the minister, close the road and stop in these free economic zones the so-called processing of all the processed stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u117	The word is given to the Hare John Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u118	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The village must be saved, and it must be saved through the support of agricultural production. So I propose that we adopt this draft decision prepared by Tomic and other deputies so that some financial resources can go to the village today. But we, honourable national MPs today, have to look at this problem, not from the point of view of just today, which has been wiped out by millions of acres of winter, but in general what the situation is in the village today. Thus, the village must be saved by setting normal prices for agricultural production. Who today will answer in this room when the Yushchenko government was put away. Because in the year 2000, when the government was operating, the prices were normal for grain, the prices for sugar beet were normal, and for the first time people received the money in the village, and even the citizens who had the cow could properly implement their milk. Who today will be responsible for such policies? Let us be respectful friends when we make these decisions and when we have to answer them. Because that price policy that took place today is leading to the destruction of our agricultural production and the village. Technical policy. How much will we say in this room that Ukraine needs its combo, that Ukraine needs its bulb, that Ukraine needs its European normal, and so on. There's no, you see, there's nothing, we're buying from Belarusians, we're buying from Americans, we're buying from Russians, and we're not doing that. Will we preserve the independence and development of the village if we do not have our agricultural techniques? We will never maintain our independence and our dynamics. So, honourable national MPs, it's time to ask the ruby: where's our combine, where's our bulb, where's our agricultural production? Third. It's a question of credit. I am very afraid that in these circumstances, when things get worse today, banks will take such a position, where they will actually eat up the village’s resources even what they are. Let's talk about that and that's the question. We have the money to pay off the loan rate, but how do they work today, by what quota, how much will we think? We think today and let's talk about all this stuff today. We don't know anything about financial resources to support the village or agriculture at all. What is happening today with the property that is being done today with the land in agriculture that is being done today, in fact, by our local authority, the executive authority at the district district level. We've already become, I'm sorry, turkeys, that they're even going down the road where people are sowing, no one's going to get up or ask what your problems are today. The head of the administration or someone else. Unacceptable things. You're a man. You're a leader. Stop. And the last. This is so that we are not forgotten that we are moving well and so on. I was recently in the Cherkas region, passing the Cherkas region, even on the border of Kyivsk, Cherkas region, where I was sowing corn in May. And I've seen the unsightly fields, the unscathed fields. So let's see how it sown. Therefore, honourable deputies, we need to make this decision, but our demands need to be strengthened with regard to executive power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u119	From the faction of the Agrarian Party Borzich Alexander Ivanovich a minute and we're done. We don't have time anymore. We need to consider one more question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u120	Honorable national MPs, members of the government and invited. In general, when comparing the state of preparation and the holding of a spring-plant company, in the last few years the situation of this year can be concluded that each time there are largely the same problems for farmers during this period. This leads to a conclusion. The absence of a clear, promising system for creating the right conditions for timely and quality work. Such high hopes for State support were linked by farmers to the adoption of a law to stimulate agriculture for 2001-2004. True, something has been done, but one of the basic requirements of the law on the allocation of at least 5 budget expenditure per year for agricultural development has never been implemented. Long - term credit to producers, crop insurance, and agriculture are not addressed. The second question. You know how difficult, if you don't say, a catastrophic situation is to provide agriculture. In this regard, a law was adopted to encourage the development of agrarian machinery for the agrarian complex. And how is it done? Not at all. This law provides for the annual allocation of one percent of the total budget expenditure for the production of the specified equipment. In 2003, this would amount to, for example, 490 million dollars, and in fact, only 10 million dollars have been allocated and only for the government program, and not a penny has been allocated for other measures. In this respect, the question is, "When will we have a native agricultural engineer? How are you going to harvest crops in this year and in the next year if the load on one harvester has already reached 370 hectares?" There are no better things to do with other types of technology. The issue of providing fuel-oil materials to farmers every year is painful. And what is now said to be fuel in the market this year and in sufficient quantity, if there's no funds for its purchase, is a very small fact. The Ukrainian Agrarian Party faction believes that in order to stabilize the agricultural sector in the first place, it is necessary for the current session to consider and adopt those bills that have recently been tabled by the Agrarian People's Deputies. This includes support for production and the development of the market for agricultural products for the extension of the fixed tax period, the establishment of a new order for payment of VAT. Of course, the legislative initiatives of the government on these issues need no less support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u121	Please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich with a motive. Cherniak's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u122	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I can't agree with the fact that we don't always put the right emphasis on agrarian politics. The problem is not to support agriculture, not only not so much in this, but also to prevent financial resources from being pumped out of it, not to drain it, not to destroy it. Here's the problem. We destroy it, and then we ask each time that we need to help agriculture. The problem is not in the weather, although it is also in the weather, but the problem of low reform is the problem of fraud, abuse, and crime. If we don't put an end to it, all the money will go like water in the sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u123	Okay. Anatoly Frost. Wait a minute. Please, it's Anatoly Frost's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u124	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Hannaday Andriyovich! I've told you many times -- unfortunately, there's no Vladimir Mikhailovich -- that in this room, if it comes to discussing the problems of the agro-industrial complex, we don't always get our hands on it. You see, it's been signed up for today to talk about this problem, and this is spring-field work, and this is actually the preparation for harvesting, actually, 8 people. And we couldn't afford to give a speech to all those who signed up. Well, that's, I'll tell you, it's a real nuisance. This is the first time. It's different. I'll tell you what's really going on and not bad in the way of decisions, and now a decision is being made on both the loan and the allocation of funds to somehow mitigate the situation in the village today. But today’s money really doesn’t come to the producer! It's an outrage! And a number of other problems that need to be discussed in our room today. You don't give us time to talk. It's not good anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u125	Okay. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you of the decision taken by the Conciliation Council. It has been determined that the Committee on Agricultural Policy should prioritise, give advice on this issue, determine the issues that need to be addressed first. We must devote the day to this! A plenary day at the Supreme Council, and look into all the questions. Is that a decision taken? Yeah. Let's identify ourselves on an agrarian committee. The closing word is given to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u126	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The government does not hide the problems that are present in the agribusiness complex. You see, we've never been in the last few months apart from the fact that the Supreme Council wants to hear a problem. And today's discussion is next. The problems that have arisen in the agriculture of this witnessing work. That's the first thing I want to say. The other one. Dear friends! Today, as ever before, there is no Deputy Prime Minister or Minister in connection with this situation. Exceptional powers and additional measures and financial resources can be given only by this Supreme Council Hall, where everything is decided by law and by law and by law. Question three. Obviously, after two relatively healthy years in agriculture today, the trouble and the minister made this situation completely objectively clear from the rostrum. Dear colleagues, the government's proposals to the Supreme Council for amendments to the state budget, sophisticated sources of funding. We ask you tomorrow-after tomorrow when you discuss supporting them by voting. The price of a question of about 600 million is a small fraction of what agriculture has lost today. But this is a political step, because the critical mass of understanding in this room and in the country that agriculture needs attention, it has matured to the summit, after which fundamental decisions must be made. I agree with Mr. Pavlovski, a colleague of mine, who criticized me for speaking from the rostrum, which deals exclusively with the market. 600 million we offer to use on market bases, not in the market, but in the market. Not to give to food, but to give to the economy and to produce. 150 million for subsidies to those producing animal products, one and a half bracelets per kilogram of cattle, pigs, and 50 copies of bird. 400 million is for the purchase of grain during harvesting when the price is down. It's not a market, it's a state, it's a market organizer. Mikhail Antonovich may have cut out my words in the media somewhere, but you know, we're talking about things that you and I both understand, and we're talking about the hall. And finally, last. Dear colleagues, yesterday in the Cabinet of Ministers, there was a meeting with the National Deputies, representatives of all the factions who had submitted drafts to this Hall, which supported agriculture after 2003, when the law-supporting acts would end. Some 20 national deputies were added and listed, and individually, some 10 bills. We came up with a common, united thought yesterday. There is a single bill that agrees with the government's position and with the representatives of all the factions who see the prospect of rural development. That's what you all said in this room. What's strategic. Today's trouble, we'll stretch out our hand in distress. And tomorrow, strategically, what's going to happen? This bill will be submitted to the Supreme Council Hall tomorrow. Please discuss the need to accept it in the first reading. And to the second, let's work on a document so that we don't feel sorry for the problems that might happen until 2010 and in subsequent periods. It all depends, really, as Mr. Cherniak tells me, on strong state policy and state support. She repents here in a joint effort. Thank you for another discussion of pressing issues and for the important decision that will be made tomorrow-after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u127	Thank you all for taking part in this important issue, in addressing this important issue. Let's move on to the next one. Draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on taxation for transactions carried out at the expense of international technical assistance. The word is given to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, Sergio Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u128	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! You are invited to consider the draft Ukrainian law amending some of Ukraine's tax laws. With regard to operations being carried out at the expense of international technical assistance provided for the extraction of the Chernobyl AES from the operation and conversion of the Protection facility into an environmentally sound system. The bill, registration number 2244 of September 26, 2002 is submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for submission to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill was drafted by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to carry out the Ukrainian President’s mandate of May 17, 2002. Agreed with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the State Tax Administration, the Ministry of Justice. The bill amends the Ukrainian Law on Corporate Income Taxation of December 28, 94, and the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax of April 3, 97. I want to remind you that the international projects for the preparation of the Chernobyl AES for the operation and conversion of the shelter into an environmentally sound system are being carried out on the site of the Chernobyl AES since 97. These projects are funded by the immediate loans granted by the international community. In accordance with the terms of the international agreements on international technical assistance, the grant agreement between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Government of Ukraine and the Chernobyl AES, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the framework agreement between Ukraine and the EBRD concerning the activities of the Chernobyl Foundation for Asylum in Ukraine, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the costs of grants should not be directed towards paying any taxes, duties or other compulsory payments established by Ukraine or its territory in accordance with its legislation. The question of the incomplete adequacy of current legislation in the area of taxation as a claim for non-compliance by Ukraine with international obligations regarding exemption from international technical assistance tax has been violated for a long time by donor countries of international funds created to address the problems of the Chernobyl AES during meetings of the donor assembly in letters addressed to the government, to the President of Ukraine and in meetings with senior officials and parliamentarians. The problem is that the lack of a legislative norm to ensure the full implementation of the above-mentioned international obligation, in the course of an operation involving the purchase by a domestic producer or contractor in Ukraine of materials, goods, services and so on, at the expense of international aid costs, leads to the creation of an amount of accumulated tax on an added value that is not subject to effective compensation legislation. And taking it to gross expense can result in the uncompetitiveness of the manufacturer or even contribute to his bankruptcy. At the same time, this fact is seen by the international community as a hidden breach of Ukraine’s international obligations. The main principle of the bill, which is proposed for consideration, is the introduction of a limited period of zero rate to calculate the value added tax, the purchase of materials, raw materials, equipment, the provision of services in the customs territory of Ukraine at the expense of international technical assistance. Given the total amount of this aid, about $1 billion, the introduction of a zero-tax legislative rate for the added cost of operations in the above context is the best way to address the issue of exemption from tax. It should be borne in mind that at the meeting of the Assembly of Donors of the Chernobyl Foundation, which took place in London last year and April 2003, the issue of the measures used by Ukraine to address the above-mentioned problem was considered among the key issues. There is no exception that the failure to resolve this problem on the one hand could lead to donor countries requiring Ukraine to increase its contribution to the Chernobyl Fund, and on the other hand would make it impossible for Ukrainian producers to participate successfully in international projects at the Chernobyl AES and would generally stop their implementation. The Ministry of Fuel and Energy provided support to the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out the tasks of the Ukrainian Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The bill has been reviewed repeatedly at meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Finance and Banking, its drafting by a group of Ukrainian National Deputies, with the participation of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and now its registration number - 2244-1, taking into account the proposals made during the sessions of the Supreme Council's Committee on Finance, Banking and Adjustment for the Limitation of Income from Import Taxation, Transfer to Customs Territory of Ukraine of Goods, Materials, Facilities. This bill is supported in general by all interested ministries, the State Tax Administration, and the Cabinet of Ministers. To sum up the above, I propose to support the bill with registration number 2244-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u129	Please sign up for the question. Light up, please. The word is given to Anatoly Frost, the next to School. Please, school. Next up is Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u130	Dear reporter! First of all, we've already said that there's agreement. This is a government bill. But there's still Bill 2244D, enough for me to have a well-designed system of passage across the customs border of the food group. This is 1-24 of this category. I think that's actually where we need to focus more on this, because when we talk about the overall trend in supporting the movement into the customs territory of those goods, without taxes that contribute to economic development and so on, we can talk again. But when food is brought here under this disgust, when it makes holes on the border, and so we have a border, not so much gold, it's your attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u131	The question relating to the conversion of the "Hidden" facility to an environmentally hazardous system and the exit of the Chernobyl AU from operation relates to the import, transfer to customs territory and purchase in the customs territory of Ukraine of raw materials of equipment and equipment, as well as the provision of services for the performance of these works. The introduction of these amendments to the laws will enable domestic producers to participate, not in the customs territory, but in the participation of domestic producers in tenders and in the tendering principles and the abandonment of these costs in Ukraine. If you don't mind my saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u132	Okay. Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u133	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Please pass the word to Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u134	I would like to find out in the report the real state of today’s special economic zone, which is in Slavotic, how developed and how many subjects are registered in it, and how much has it given for the development of Slavotic? Another question. What is the cost of the aid, actually, that you're reporting today, what is the amount of money that will go into the cloaking system today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u135	Today's situation in the special economic zone in Slavotic, it is developing, it has enabled the government programme approved in 2000 for the social protection of workers from the former Chernobyl A.S.A., inhabitants of Slavotic and pensioners who remain there today. Now, unfortunately, I can't tell you all the numbers that you asked here in the question. But today, you know, the third year went off like a closed Chernobyl AES, and today there's no social tension, there's people working, there's jobs. This year we plan to finish transporting from the temporary town of Lesne to the city of Slavic, building the last house there. I mean, it's a normal situation. What it costs to turn the Protection facility into an environmentally sound system is about $750 million, which is estimated to be the whole set of jobs. The project is managed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Ukraine. There is a government program. Work is scheduled to begin by the end of this year after appropriate procedures have been carried out. But there was a previous discussion of the project from three projects. A selected project like Arka, and now the issue of the exact cost of these works is being dealt with. The next meeting is planned at the San Francisco Donors' Assembly, where all these issues will also be clarified. Regarding the granting of the aid, it is for this amount of work that the introduction of a zero VAT rate is proposed to enable domestic producers to do the work first. For example, metal construction is proposed to be produced somewhere on the factories located on the shore of Dniper, or it will be the city of Dnipropetrovsk, or some other city, to take these blocks to the site of the Chernobyl AES. If this is not done, you realize that the international community will not discriminate against all other participants in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u136	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u137	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Sergey Fedorovich! I believe that Ukraine has been discriminated against by holding hands, closing Chernobyl and giving nothing, and now we are proposing to undress on your project, when we set a zero rate for operations in customs territory of Ukraine, thus violating the concept of value added tax, and in fact we are subsidizing 20 percent from the budget to those who operate in customs territory of Ukraine. Then please tell me what the state's interest is. If you look at the three projects that I've just analyzed, this interest is reflected in the third project, in the MP's. But there's also a question, because we also have to go to budget losses. Where is it in your national interest? From her. You didn't convince us today. Please tell me I don't understand something.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u138	This is about what we've already got on a non-reversible basis we're getting these funds to convert the Hidden object into an environmentally sound system. It is already a free help from the world community. And the peace community -- the donor community -- in my opinion, quite rightly, is asking the question that the State budget should not receive income from these costs in the performance of these jobs, because this increases the cost, the total cost of work in the conversion of the "Hidden" object into an environmentally safe system. This is the first time. It's different. We already have aids for this kind of technical assistance, but to provide foreign equipment and raw materials. And this bill, which is now being proposed, is actually involved in the work of domestic producers. I mean, it gives you the opportunity, on equal terms, to participate in tenders for both domestic and foreign producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u139	Have a seat, please. Draft law 2244-1. Is there no axis? From the committee. 2244-D. It's coming up, isn't it? Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u140	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. It is certainly regrettable that two strong bills are not yet being submitted. This is Bill 2244-1, which was introduced by Osika, Derkach, Sabashuk, and Bill 2244-d, which was submitted by People's Deputies Burjak, Teryohinim, Tushk and other people's deputies. Of course, they cannot report him today in connection with his absence. I'm going to take a brief look at these three bills and what they're different about. In my opinion, since the bill submitted by the government today, only the law with the letter "d" presented by Burjak, Teryohinim, Tushko and other people's deputies can be distinguished. And that's why. It's because this bill proposes for procurement operations by contractors in the customs territory of Ukraine of materials and equipment of domestic producers, suppliers at the expense of international technical assistance, to apply the general exemption mechanism to the added cost. So if these goods are used in further transactions that are tax-free, the VAT input paid at the price of such goods cannot be attributed by the contractor to the tax credit, but will be included in its gross cost. In particular, the bill defines the rules on the exemption from the value added tax, transactions in the sale of goods, raw materials, materials, equipment and equipment, the performance of jobs and the provision of services in the customs territory of Ukraine by resident sellers within the framework of contracts directly concluded with the recipient of international technical assistance, at the proposed zero VAT rate. With a view to preventing abuse of taxes, the bill stipulates that the exemption provided for in article 11, paragraph 1323 does not extend to sales transactions, or to other types of alienation of taxable goods and goods, which fall within the definition of the first and twenty-fourth groups of the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity, including in their sale in the customs territory of Ukraine. At the same time, the bill is flawed. The disadvantage is that it is not enough to calculate the financial costs that the budget will bear. And according to part three of article 27 of the Code of Budgets, if there are changes to the budget, then the law may take effect no earlier than January 1, 2004. I propose and ask you to adopt the law with the letter "d" and just write there that it goes into effect on January 1, 2004. Otherwise, this would be contrary to the Code of Budgets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u141	Vladimir Cherniak I can't see. The word is given to Andrew Schleak. The next is Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u142	Of course, I would like to point out here that the quality of the bills that national MPs and government, or the President, are always different in quality. I mean, the Supreme Council deputies always prepare better drafts. Mr. Pavlovsky, let me listen to the representative of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u143	Michael Antonovich, please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u144	Thank you very much. I repeat, because a fellow national MP has not given me the opportunity to listen, so I emphasize why I asked you in my question and didn't pay attention to yours, that parliamentary laws are always better than government laws. And let's agree, after all, that there are representatives and emissaries of the people here, people who, at least by virtue of their duties, rarely communicate, but are said to be a label to the people. In particular, the bill proposed by Tushkom and Teryochinim, it in principle enhances your relationship with the same people because there is a very good leader. I agree with the previous statement that there are also some nuances, and in this bill, it really needs to enter into force with the start of the new fiscal year. However, the bill proposed by the government is worse than the bill proposed by the MP. I don't know. With whom and where he's been reconciled, because the committee is offering us here letters 2244-d -- a bill of MPs. And for us, this is the main criterion of consistency. Maybe he was agreeing somewhere in the Cabinet of Ministers, so the usual thing is that there's corporate interests, and there's going to be a bill that's going to be supported that's offering your department, but, nevertheless, I'd like to stop at the details. Of course, it is very good when manufacturers compete in the 50 / 50 system, that is, foreign producers will be represented, and Ukrainian producers will be represented. But you know, it's always this competition, the Ukrainian producer loses: it's not bored, it's not supported, it's grazed on free bread, it's basically not from anyone, it's not suffering from everyone, it's not protecting anyone -- it's the same state that's supposed to do it, it's not just exploiting the manufacturer. And that's why there should be a priority, that is, when Ukrainian producers and Ukrainian industrialists and Ukrainian scientists can't offer. Only in that case is a tender already involving a foreigner, a neighbor or a distant representative -- it doesn't matter anymore. Then it's not just fair, and it's going to be public, it's going to be used, all of the potential states have for their own self-defense, self-sustainment and industrial and entrepreneurial development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u145	The word is given to Pavlovsky Mikhail Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u146	Thank you, Hennady Vasilovich. Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmeljničina. Dear colleagues, members of the government, I want to draw attention to such features. In the bill presented by the government, I want to get Karmazin's attention. It doesn't say where the kids are, like, 50 million. That is, they can also be given abroad to other people’s equipment, and they can also be given to their services and equipment. And in the bill that Karmazin stands for, the National MP, clearly wrote down, read the text, "international aid, including our 50 million." So we're definitely giving them 50 million, and they're providing help and services. That's why we should mention Nan Luger's law in the United States, which sounds very simple: "It's forbidden to finance foreign firms for budget money." So you have to edit it and write it separately, "Costs that come from Ukraine's budget go to pay for equipment and services exclusively from Ukrainian organizations." And the fact that Andrew School has to be complemented. And if we're given the equipment, its mounting, and so on, we should do the assembly on our own, and if we can't do it now, then please do it on our own. So we have to try, if we've already allowed this nonsense, that instead of making money for it all that we've stopped it for, why and for whom it's convenient, we have to fix it. So in this situation, you have to make one of these three bills, because the other is a little bit better written, and you have to make one that takes into account the proposals that were made today: give priority to the country's executive, the budget funds that we allocate, just to the services that are provided by the country's performers, and the third, to take into account what Teriochin and others are offering, so that there's no abuse, this product group of 1.24. And then there'll be a normal bill, and you can accept it. So I'm proposing on the basis of these three, it's very easy to design and quickly adopt the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u147	The word is given to Montenegro by Volodymyr Kirilovich and we are finalizing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! I'm surprised why we didn't adopt this bill earlier, why we had to put obstacles in the way of providing technical assistance to us, I think we should have done it a long time ago, but there's the government's fault, and there's the Parliament's fault. Let's not talk about the past or the bad, let's talk about the future or the good. The bill must be adopted without a doubt that a zero rate of international technical assistance tax should be imposed. This is an international standard and this is what Ukraine needs first and therefore to deny it I think it would be unwise. At the same time, there are some nuances that my colleagues have discussed that need to be taken into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. I tend to believe that the law proposed by Karmazin must be the basis. I share the thoughts expressed by my colleague, MP Pavlovsky, that in providing technical assistance, when using it we should focus on domestic production, domestic producers. And where it's possible to use these funds by our domestic manufacturers, that's what we do. And only when it's impossible to do that and when we can't, or if we don't have the right technologies, of course we have to involve foreign capital, foreign professionals, foreign technology for that. And of course, when it comes to budgeting, more needs to be done for the country’s performers. Well, finally, we need to put obstacles in the way of possible abuses. Unfortunately, where funds are used, there are always attempts to use them unintentionally, not on purpose. And so we need to write out a clear mechanism to prevent misuse of technical assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The vote will take place according to the rules. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. A break of 16 hours is announced. Thank you all.
