ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:26]] Registered -411 There are 411 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Valentina Sergiyovich Zubova. Let's say hello, we want all kinds of goodies. By procedure, let's deal with this? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Democratic Party, the factions of our Ukraine require brief statements. What are we going to do? Please. And let's just go to work after that so there's no blockage. Yes, please, Valery Pavlovich. Please, Your Honor, very soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, has forced us to make an appropriate statement of misconduct on the part of the President's Administration. VOICES FROM THE PLACE. Oh! Oh!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u3	Declaration by the faction of the People's Democratic Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the resignation of the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Vasil Shevchuk. At the end of last week, a decree issued by the President of Ukraine for the submission of the National Security and Defence Council was released from office as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, a member of the political People's Democratic Party of Vasil Shevchuk for his alleged serious shortcomings in his work. This extraordinary event for the NDP and the party faction in the Supreme Council, this is the first case of the liberation in the coalition government of Viktor Yanukovic, formed as a result of the political agreement between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers on cooperation and solidarity. The release took place without prior consultation with all the parties to the treaty, absolutely unexpected for the People's Democratic Party. In this regard, we have to state that the release of Vasil Shevchuk from office of Minister of Environment and Natural Resources has violated the political agreement between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers on cooperation and solidarity. These actions discredit the work of the parliamentary majority, the work of the coalition government, the very idea of such a government. Political reform is called into question. The other one. Members of the NDP faction view the zenizated and adopted decisions as the beginning of the attack on the People's Democratic Party with the aim of weakening it. It is also remarkable that this is happening at a time when the NDP is actively defending its position on political reform, other relevant issues of our society's life. Unwittingly, there are questions about the pressure on the NDP. Third. The People's Democratic Party was the first to oppose corruption in the higher echelons of power and demanded that the President resign Paul Lazarenko as Prime Minister. We have always been a political force that is not stained by dirty crime. Now we're going to pick up a label of false accusations. We reject this because we were able to get acquainted with accusations that were not available as grounds for the release of Vasil Shevchuk, we find them intentive and unconvincing. We have not received sufficient evidence of his unacceptable actions as minister. We would like to remind you that the minister, Vasil Shevchuk, has been in office since December 2000 and should not be responsible for the calculations and shortcomings of others. The NDP faction will initiate the creation of a special commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council to determine the competence and order of the ministers of ecology and natural resources to license the use of natural resources. Four. In view of the above, we demand that Vasil Shevchuk be reinstated as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources. The People's Democratic Party, the NDP faction in the Supreme Council knows how decent a person, a highly qualified expert, we will continue to defend his interests and good name just as well as our one-party. Thank you for your attention. And the faction of the People's Democratic Party has decided not to take part in the government's Day today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u4	Yes, please, from the faction "Our Ukraine", Oil Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u5	Dear fellow MPs, on June 6, 2003, a constitutional majority was formed in the Lviv District Council. The faction of Dilova Lvivščina, which is the continuation of the "One Ukraine" block that went to the elections, and the faction of "Our Ukraine" came together mostly in the Lviv district council. We had two thirds of our votes. This majority was caused by the cynical removal of the head of the District State Administration, Mr. Miron Yanków, who was able to synchronize his attitude towards political parties, act within the framework of the current Ukrainian legislation, and began a social revival of the area. But it was taken. So we joined together in the majority around us to solve regional problems. Just 30 minutes later, ministers were gathered at the President's Administration, and it was directed to those representatives of business Lviv who presented the "One Ukraine" Block and entered this majority to give a command to them to get out of the majority. Flights with staff of the Presidential Administration, and people cynically, as in 33 years, heads of district administrations, heads of state-owned enterprises drove through and ripped out of their beds, picked up and forced them to write statements. I am addressing the Attorney General about the illegal actions of the deputy head of the Herich Volodymyr Administration, who went to the district council and dragged, literally, representatives of business Lvivščina out of the session hall and forced him to write statements. That's why I'm not protecting our Ukraine today, I'm protecting you, distinguished representatives of the Agrarian Party, the People's Democratic Region, the Ukraine region, because today it's a blow to you. And on that account, it's an official statement. A statement. "On June 6, 2003, she began her work as an alternate session of the Lviv District Council, which addressed the issue of the political situation that took place in the region in the wake of sharp and unwarranted personnel changes, such as the resignation of the head of Mr. Miron Yankev's district administration. In fact, there has been a blow to the stability of socio-economic and socio-political processes in the region and damage to the reputation of the executive branch as a whole. On the same day, most of the factions of "Our Ukraine" and "Dilova Lvivščina" were recorded in the session hall of the District Council. A constructive majority, who formed themselves in an environment of MPs, claimed to be a guarantor of the democratic process in the region. Yet, that day, pressure, threats, and demands to respond to their voices began to be felt by MPs who had signed their signatures under the declaration of majority creation. Attention is drawn to the unprecedented involvement of executive authorities in the work of representative authorities in an area that destabilizes the situation, creating tension in broad public circles. Please take steps to prevent the authorities from interfering with the work of the district council and to address the situation. The "Our Ukraine" faction supports the decision of the Lviv District Council, and in the event of further interference and pressure on MPs, I leave the right to adequate action to the public of Lviv, to defend my representative body. The third faction is the SDPU. If two factions are united, think to whom it is convenient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's work now. In line with the calendar schedule for the third session today, a government day is being held at the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine rulings of 6 and 20 February, the subject of our consideration will be information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the legal regime and the effectiveness of special economic zones and areas of priority development in Ukraine and on the implementation of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation since 31 May 1997. The Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property, and Investment proposes that the rapporteur be given up to 15 minutes to speak and up to 30 minutes to answer written and oral questions. In 15 minutes, we'll have a representative of the profile committee speaking. For 20 minutes, we'll have a debate. Is there no objection? Now for the second piece of information. The Committee on Foreign Affairs suggests that it take an hour and a half to review other information. The reporter will be able to provide information within 20 minutes to answer all the questions in writing. For the presentation of the profile committee, up to 10 minutes. For 20 minutes, we'll have a debate. So organize a job to complete it at 2 p.m. Is there no objection? Then let's move on to the information. Please, Mihowich Ivan of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u7	Thank you. Mighovich, the Communist faction. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the issues are extremely wide-ranging, so 20 minutes to discuss is obviously not enough. Let's at least add another 30-40. We've been preparing for this conversation seriously. Well, that's 27.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Up to 30 minutes there, and then we'll see. Is there no objection? Agreed, right? Then we will be determined in the course of the discussion. Information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the legal regime and the effectiveness of special economic zones and areas of priority development is being discussed. Reporter of the Minister of Economics and European Integration, Valerius Ivanovich Horoshkovsky. Please, Valery Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u9	Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Let's start with history. During the period 1998-2000, 11 special economic zones were created by relevant legislation in Ukraine and a special regime of investment activities was introduced in nine regions. The creation of each individual economic zone and the granting of each particular area of the special investment regime have always been the subject of public decisions. The process of creating CEZs and TPRs has not always been harmonized and has not always been consistent with conscious state policy. This is evidenced by the normative regulation of CEZ and TPR, and the legal field of functioning of CEZ is defined by the framework law. However, there is no basic law on the legal principles of the introduction of a special regime of investment activity. For each special territory, there is a separate statute, 17 laws of Ukraine, and two decrees of the President. In addition, special economic pursuits, the "Truskavets", "Javrov" and "Slavutic" tours of operation and functional orientation are, in fact, areas of priority development. The initiator of the CEZ was mainly regional elites. Then they were backed by central authority and gained the status of the law in the end. Today, it can be noted that the joint work of the government and the Supreme Council to create conditions for additional investment resources to address the socio-economic problems of the regions is the first to come. In all nine areas where a special investment regime has been introduced, and in ten out of eleven special economic zones, except for SEZ Interport Koval, practical activity has begun. In general, about 600 investment projects are being implemented in these areas as part of the implementation of these projects, with investments of $2.6 billion in the United States, including foreign investments of about $1 billion, and the creation of more than 70,000 new jobs and the preservation of about 100,000 existing jobs. The current results of CEZ and TPR activities are such. There are about a billion dollars worth of investments, 370 million of them foreign capital, over 32,000 new ones created, and some 64,000 existing jobs saved. Since the introduction of the special investment regime, taxes and collections have been paid to owners for almost 1.4 billion dollars, including 0.6 billion dollars last year. Government, the Ministry of Economics, along with other central executives, is constantly tracking the processes and trends in special areas in priority areas. The main focus is on monitoring compliance with legislation; assessing financial results, especially in relation to budgets of all levels; optimizing and listing priority economic activities, both in terms of their impact on the structural reconstruction of the region's economy and taking into account the potential impact on the competitive environment in other regions. According to government-approved criteria for assessing the effectiveness of activities from special areas, the Ministry of Economics, along with the Ministry of Finance, State and State Tax Administration, carried out an analysis of the activities of CEZ and TPR in 2002. The results of the operation and analysis of the effectiveness of the application of tax treatments in CEZ and TPR are presented in the materials given. I'll just name the main results of the analysis. In most cases, CEZ and TPR conditions do not have a decisive impact on investment processes in the territories where these areas are located. Special areas and priority areas cause distortions of the competitive environment in regional markets. More than half of all investments in SEZ and TPR are flows of capital from other areas of Ukraine. In the internal market, nearly 70 percent of all special zones and territories have been released. Unlike the state in general, the CEZ and TPR are slowing down the pace of investment. Annual growth in investment in CEZ and TPR declined from 147 per cent in 2000 to 110 in 2002 and to capital from 145 to 105, respectively. It is not excluded that part of the CEZ and TPR in their present form have exhausted the resource of investing in new ones. This is evidenced by the significant decline in investment flows that took place, for example, in the Donetsk Region, the Luhansk Region, and the Chernigiv Region. The sign of CEZ and TPR is the low quality of the remaining capital. Rarely, even in areas with relatively developed infrastructure levels, a strategic investor does not go. Only 10 percent of the investment projects that are being implemented are worth more than $10 million. In 200 C.E., the amount of import duty aid in the total amount of aid granted to CEZ and TPR is almost 60 percent and tends to increase. The structure of imported goods is changing. If the total import of raw materials and materials amounted to 34.5 percent in 2001, it was already in 2002 - 47.6. Such trends in the structure of imports of goods do not meet the objective of creating CEZs and TPRs for the introduction of new technologies and the modernization of existing productions, but in fact they create competitive advantages for individual business entities by reducing costs of raw materials and materials in the cost of production. For foreign investors, the benefits are not a decisive factor in entering the country. All CEZs and TPRs accumulated only 7 percent of the total foreign investment in Ukraine. Instead, most of the investments are located in developed cities. This indicates that the availability of good infrastructure is more important than the benefits of special areas and areas of priority development. As a result, with only a few exceptions, such as the Yavorów region of the Lviv region, the tax regime does not provide investment in far - flung areas. The local authorities ’ approach to evaluating investment projects was insufficiently demanding and obvious. Since last year, according to the government's decision, and this is justified, all the projects come to the central authorities for expertise. The result is that out of 129 projects, 92 were returned for processing, 29 were rejected as unacceptable, indicating low investor requirements for investment projects to register. Inadequate preparation of investment projects resulted from the failure of development programmes in areas that were approved by local authorities, which were not provided for, are the volume of investment involved, the number of new jobs, the availability of the budget. These facts allow us to draw the following conclusions. Only the development of infrastructure and the creation of even and transparent economic conditions at national level will allow investment leaps. According to some indications, the investment climate of SEZ and TPR reflects the state as a whole. It's not the benefits that are important to investors, it's the infrastructure and the general investment climate in the state. There is very little investment in projects with a long-term repayment period. These qualities can be called negative. However, this is not the reason for claims to CEZ and to special investment areas. And then we can't demand an investment boom from any kind of income regime if it's introduced in an area that's been deprived of economic infrastructure. The share of existing CEZs and TPRs should be considered together with the share of aids and indirect subsidies available in the economy. In fact, there are many sectoral CEZs in Ukraine now, and many individual enterprises benefit from more benefits than those of CEZ and TPR. The stability and predictability of special investment areas is as important for the investment climate as the stability and predictability of all national legislation. In areas with a special investment regime, investors like the rest of the country work. They also need to demonstrate foresight, clarity of state policy. We will harm the investment rating of Ukraine if we often and unexpectedly change the business conditions for companies that are already working in CEZ and TPR. Moreover, it is important that many other companies are following the fate of the first investors to consider creating a business in Ukraine. In this sense, the rightness of the government's decision last May to use exclusively domestic raw materials in implementing investment projects is not so obvious. Last December, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed two laws establishing that the economic regime of free zones and other special zones is not distributed for transactions in excise goods. The reason for this decision was the complaint that CEZ is a channel of dutyless imports of goods into Ukraine. The problem of seamless imports needs to be solved. But if we agree that CEZ should be exclusively export oriented, we need to be consistent and cancel all congregations from goods that will not cross the customs border of Ukraine. In addition, as a result of the application of this law, some SEZ entities are now in a situation where they are taxed twice: both tax and customs services. And there shouldn't be such a colossal. Despite comparatively small amounts of investment revenues, CEZ and TPR entities are now important sources of income for the local and district budgets of the regions where they are located. The urgent task is to find funds for the direct financial support of depressed areas. These areas will not benefit significantly from the benefits, most of which are, in principle, unattractive to investors. We need to increase the budget, and to do so, we need to provide conditions for the rapid growth of the Ukrainian economy. The government believes that the ultimate point of transformation of all special or free economic zones should be export orientation. That is, no congregations have imported goods into the zone and import mode when importing goods into Ukraine. In the near future, the government will introduce a law to the Supreme Council that would harmonize the defining general principles for the functioning of all areas of priority development. As a result of the regulation of each CEZ and TPR, separate regulatory acts in areas with the same economic regime are different in terms of organisation and functioning of organizational legal principles. It also complicates the process of improving the regulatory framework for its functioning, since if changes are necessary to regulate the activities of all TPRs, these changes should be made to each relevant law. As the practice testifies, they cannot be accepted at the same time. This leads to a greater differentiation of the general conditions of CEZ and TPR. The only law should also give priority areas to those special economic zones that actually function as TPRs. The adoption of a single law will help to streamline the activities of the TPR, improve the level and effectiveness of regulation and monitor their activities. Taking into account the low impact of the use of a special investment regime as a tool for socio-economic development in depressed areas, the government is proposing a moratorium on the creation of new CEZs and TPRs. Next. The government proposes that the new law deal with the following issues regarding the conditions for the implementation of investment projects. There are currently no "investment project" terms in the current legislation, "conditions for modifications to the project", and "criteria for establishing the project's debt period." As indicated by the Mineconomies, there are cases where individual SEZ and TPR entities are actually starting a new project through changes to approved projects, such as the number and volume of imported goods, without a new agreement on its implementation. This leads to an almost uncontrollable use of the tax system. There are also no legal procedures for making changes to the contracts entered into and the application of the mechanism for compensation by the SEZ and TPR entities in the event of the early termination of the investment project contract. Individual legislative acts do not contain rules for determining how to control the targeted use of goods imported into Ukraine for the implementation of investment projects, CEZ Yavorov, CEZ. Rabbit, TPR in Zakarpatsky and Lugansk. This interferes with the timely resolution of possible violations. Finally, legislation on the creation and functioning of CEZs and TPRs is needed to comply with the Customs Code in the definition of the criterion for sufficient processing of products produced in CEZ. The main report is complete. I'm ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u10	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Please sign up for the question. We're going to go this way that one is written, one is from the people's deputies directly. Please put your names on the board. Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u11	Please give the floor to Deputy Ostas.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u12	Igor Ostasz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u13	Igor Ostrash, "Our Ukraine" faction, the Reform and Order Party. Dear reporter! Unfortunately, there have been a lot of examples in recent times when companies operating in the free economic zones are practically smothering competitors of Ukrainian producers working outside the tax zones, and this has led to the closure of a large number of enterprises, including us in Galicina and in Lviv. So the first question. Will you really be able to resolve the situation of competition in normal business economic zones? And the second. However, what steps the government will take as soon as possible to improve the situation in the depressed zones, because I know there is a bill now, and what is the position on this issue of government, what steps will be taken as soon as possible, because, let's say, I have a very serious depression zone in the Thirsty area, and I usually need to work together with both the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to take the right steps on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u14	Thank you for asking. I'll actually answer with your limb. Together with you, we will be able to change the situation. And in order to fix the competitive field, you really need to do what the government is proposing today, and thus adopt a law that would separate imports of goods into the zone before importing goods into Ukraine. So if we're directing free economic zones into the export regime then, so we're going to fix the competitive environment, we're actually going to remove the distortion that you're talking about. With regard to depressed areas. I should point out that the report suggested that really depressed territories are not attractive to investors. So if we can't regulate it at the expense of the budget, the depressed areas won't be able to invest. So our task together is to raise the general investment climate in the state, increase economic opportunities and have some resources for the budget to solve this particular problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u15	Please write to Valérie Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u16	The Committee on Economic Policy, as well as the question, was asked by the national deputy, Demiohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich. In line with Ukraine’s special investment legislation, there is a lower investment plan for small businesses. However, the existing legislative criteria for defining small businesses, the gross profit of no more than 500,000 euros, do not provide a real basis for economic forecasting of enterprises, because high technology, even at low cost, allows the production of large quantities of equipment. And an enterprise equipped with such equipment loses its status as a small one because of exceeding the level of income established by law when this does not match. The government is currently working on a bill tabled by National Deputy Rajkov and Landik to amend the laws of Ukraine on State support for small businesses and businesses in Ukraine. These changes provide for a review of the criteria for taking enterprises to small ones, including an increase in gross income to 5 million euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u17	Anatoly Frost instead of Baburin, please, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u18	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Valery Ivanovich, I have this question that I might have a lot to say about special economic zones, and the areas of priority development in Ukraine, I'd say we've been looking at some of the depressing territories and small and medium-sized cities that we're experiencing today's economic policy. So on the one hand, maybe it's a good thing that we're doing today in the state, and on the other hand there's a lot of examples that these problems aren't working. You can give a lot of examples, we all remember the President's order to ban the use of so-called Bush scissors. But through free economic zones, today these same blocks are coming in and they're forming in us, they're certified in our Ukraine, and they're kind of like ours. This can be done in the Dnipropetrov region, in the Donetsk region. And also in your information, the government's information says a lot about the need for a legislative basis, perhaps a legislative basis, but there is no proper control. How will we live and work in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Control can only be customs. If we think that the free economic zone is not Ukraine and it's meant to export, that is, there's a certain border between the zone and Ukraine's own territory. Then of course we can regulate, then there will be customs control. And today, unfortunately, there is no such distinction. Thus, it is transported as if for internal processing and then calmly enters the territory of Ukraine. So we ask your support for changing this rule of law that we will propose to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u20	Yes, please, on the letter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u21	The European Choice Group of Deputies. Questions. What amount of investment has come into the budgets of all levels: in the priority area of production to create new jobs and employ workers, introduce new technologies, modernize existing production, develop external economic connections, increase supply to Ukraine's internal market for high quality goods and services, create quality transport and market infrastructure? We have considered this issue and considered it in such a way that the issue refers to the coming of taxes on the budgets of all levels, and in this regard we note that at first the introduction of a special investment regime, taxes were paid by operators and congregations to a budget of 1.4 billion grand. If investment is involved, in this case it should be noted that there was no investment in special economic zones or in the US$ 950 million priority development area at the beginning of the project implementation. More than 30,000 were also created. and saved 95,000. existing jobs. 80 innovative projects have been implemented with a total cost of over $200 million. Upgrading and upgrading of the core funds into capital is taking place, and more than 800 million, 67 percent of the total investment. In addition, exports of almost $800 million were initially carried out by CEZ and TPR. In the total volume of products carried out by CEZ and TPR entities, exports account for more than 30 percent and tend to increase from 26 percent to 34 percent in 2002. Goods have been imported for an amount of 570 million. Nearly half of the products in Ukraine’s internal market remain in the internal district markets, nearly 50 percent. Practical activity of the external-trade-type BSE has begun. Transport infrastructure has developed, for example, about $8 million in Porto-Franco, and more than $2.6 million in RENA.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u22	Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, "Trug Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u23	160 constituency. Dear Valery Ivanovich, I would like to go back to the word "efficiencies of special economic zones," which are the subject of our discussion, and say that what the main goal is to preserve the sector or develop the territories harmoniously. And I wanted you to go back even more clearly to the indicators that characterize the social significance of these zones. For example, what is the trend toward an increase in the average monthly wage, the total income of the family? What is the trend in the use of budget funds in part of budgeting, budget execution, and social assistance? We've given the benefit of the entire territory, how does this go down in the next state? Please specify at least one area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u24	Thank you for asking. For the first part in terms of efficiency. I have already said that unfortunately, free economic zones were created at the initiative of local elites and were doing various tasks. And if you add them together, so to speak some of them, of course, one of these performance challenges was the perspective of the region, including the increase in revenue for all levels. And here I have to point out that with respect to your second question, I've already talked about this in my report, actually today's investment projects are very important for local and district budgets, because they're doing a general function of increasing government budget revenues. Regarding other figures. I've called them several times. I'd be happy to give you a full picture of the territory you're interested in. If you are interested in something separate, we are ready to provide a written explanation, and we have a full analysis of the arrivals in all the free economic zones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u25	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u26	Ukrainian Communist Party MP: "It is known that in Donetsk the construction of a complex of compressors has been completed on a free-standing basis for domestic refrigerators. This construction was done at the expense of foreign investors within the special economic zone in Donetsk. Question: Whose cost was it made by foreign investors or by the grant of the World Environmental Transfon?" In June 99th, the Council for CEZ and TPR in the Donetsk region approved an investment project that was now on the subject. Project cost 13.7 million United States dollars. The project is being implemented with the participation of a foreign investor of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, with 71 percent and 29 percent of the company's own costs. So far, nearly 12 million investments have been made. dollars, including foreign dollars, is 9.5 and the company's own cost is 2.1 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u27	Mikola Kruglov, Ukrainian Deputies Group, MP faction, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u28	Dear Minister, please tell us whether our government officials are responsible for undermining the image of Ukraine in dealing with foreign investors? I personally want to say about the situation that occurred at the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant in the free economic zone that bought the land for 54 million, he added 140 million, and the factory manager refuses to allow his territory to work there. Subordinate organizations are not missed. For more than a month, the head of the firm does not respond to the decision of the court, the prosecutor, and the executive authorities. Members of the Supreme Council are not allowed, they are obstructing the city’s mayor. For example, as we say, the official is sitting and all are silently observing the situation. I want to ask you, do you know about this situation or not? Is this an element of corruption, or is it an element, as we say, of lawlessness in our country at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u29	Thank you. If you know, there is now a consultation on improving the investment climate with the participation of the President of Ukraine, to which all investors have been invited, and as far as I know, this question has not been raised as sharply as you are currently discussing. There's a problem, but if you have so much information, we're ready to check it out. The investor was present at this meeting. And I also want to say that, of course, when you talk about responsibility, responsibility exists within administrative, civil and criminal legislation. So there was no special responsibility, and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u30	A letter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u31	The Ukrainian Party of the Council, as well as the question of the national deputy of Matvienka. Who, in each case after years separately, was the subject of a legislative initiative, in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the introduction of draft laws on special economic zones in the respective territories? At the initiative of the Supreme Council, a special economic zone called Rani was created. All the other zones were created according to the President's decree, then strengthened by the relevant laws. Today, almost all special economic zones are created under such conditions. If there is a need for help, when and in what year, according to the decree, this information is available, we are ready to provide it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u32	Boris Rykov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u33	200th District, Deminitative Group. Dear Valery Ivanovich! That's my question. On the ground today, production in free economic zones, which are low in value, is often concentrated because of uncontrolled central authorities. It's usually open-source computer-gathering and so on. What is your opinion on this issue, and how does the Government view the placement of such projects in free economic zones? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. The only thing I can say is that it actually had an answer when I talked about it. That we should not be interested in activities, that is, they could be different, but the effects of these activities on the competitive environment of businesses in Ukraine. If that's how we create competition for large businesses, which is to pay all kinds of taxes, and businesses in the zones at the expense or in the screw collection that you're talking about, or on account of minor additions, it's certainly not possible for the government to do so. So our proposal for a change of legislation, which we have already discussed, is also aimed at addressing this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u35	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u36	The People's Authority MP. What is the structure of production in special economic zones and areas of priority development in Ukraine and the share of added value within these areas of production? The analysis of individual CEZs and TPRs showed that in most regions the production structure is gradually changing. For example, in Zacarpat, the basis for production in 2002 was fast growing chemical production -- 40 percent versus 10 in 2001 and machine building -- 18 versus 4 in 2001, and the light industry -- 23 percent and food -- 13. Such a structure is close to the district and, given the steady increase in the production of transport services, the main business can be valued as one that corresponds to the available resource potential of the region. At present, in the Luhansk region, part of the traditional mining industry is gradually shrinking from 75 percent to 95 percent in 2001, 14 percent of the evil chemical production is developing light, food and wood production. Their drinking weight over the past year has nearly doubled. At the same time, changes in the structure of production are not mainly observed in areas where the volume of investment involved is small. Like now Six, Volinska and Chernigiv region. As development flaws need to be noted, for example, in Kharkiv, the machine - building component is less than 4 percent, which is small for such a city with high scientific and industrial potential. In terms of value added, it is not counted in special areas of production.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u37	Demyochin, please. Vladimir Demyohin, People's Rule Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u38	Dear Valery Ivanovich! I have three short questions for you. What economic instruments do you think should be used to introduce an innovation and investment approach in the economy, which has been announced today by the Government programme and the President? Second question. Whether special economic zones and priority development areas should be used to raise high-tech, science-intensive industries such as shipbuilding. Are there positive examples? And one last question. In CEZ, there is the same problem as we have in the entire economy, it is a matter of VAT. Like you. Do you see any mechanism for dealing more effectively with this issue with VAT? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u39	Thank you. It's about the mechanism. Mechanisms can only be financial and economic. There's no other way. And in this respect, we can talk about creating a level two bank -- the Ukrainian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You know, the government has already talked about this, so you can provide progressive or partial government funding for such projects through a second-level bank. As for the second and third questions, I want to say the next thing about VAT. This problem does exist, but it doesn't exist from zones, so it's not created by free economic zones, it's created by legislation that unfortunately has a lot of benefits and holes as to the possibility of not paying VAT. And so when we count the balance, unfortunately in this balance we have a negative result all the time, and this problem is getting more and more worrying, then we and the government are going to pass a new tax law on the added value in which we're going to solve all these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u40	Please, in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u41	What a piece of produce. I'm sorry. A committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. What steps are being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure the effective functioning of the Slavotic zone, the priority development area of the Volin region, the priority development area of the Zitomir region, taking into account the impact of the accident on the Chernobyl AES? This question was also asked by the national MP Vladimir Anatoliyovich. The government has been paying constant attention to creating conditions to improve the effectiveness of these CEZs and TPRs, all the more so in ecologically affected areas. According to the Mineconomy Initiative of the Supreme Council at the beginning of last year, a law was adopted that dealt with the transfer of production areas in the area of the administration of Minpalevenergo to the municipal property of the town of Slavotic. The adoption of the Act allowed investors to be activated and 28 investment projects are now being implemented at a cost of more than $80 million. Last year, as part of their per capita implementation, $276.9 was invested, while in total US$87.2 was invested. The introduction of investment projects also has a positive impact on the diversification of the industrial potential of the city and the development of small and medium-sized businesses. During 1999-2002, more than 600 small businesses and almost 900 entrepreneurs of natural persons were registered in Slavotic. With regard to the Volin and Žitomir regions, given that a special investment regime has been introduced in so - called depressing territories, the government is constantly optimizing priority economic activities for these regions in order to create favourable conditions for investment. These measures have already produced positive results. Thus far, in the Volin region, 100 percent of the investment involved is invested in capital, and the share of foreign capital in total investment is about 70 percent. In the Gitomir region, low levels of investment attractiveness, due to well - known environmental risks and undeveloped infrastructure, are a major deterrent to investment. With the aim of reviving investment by the working groups of the representatives of Mineconomy, other central executive bodies during September-June last year, the state of operation of the special territories was analysed. According to the report of the College of the Žitomir Observatories, measures have been approved for the revitalization of investment activities during the fourth quarter of 2002 and 2004. As a result of their implementation today, investment projects are being developed in all special areas of the area, except for the most affected by the accident in the Chernobyl National AES region, where investment offers are unfortunately not available.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u42	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u43	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Honorable Valery Ivanovich, as evidenced by the information given in the analytics and reference materials, exceeds the tax and congregation benefits of special economic zones of 646.3 million dollars. The amount of investment that is involved in most areas and territories does not at present correspond to the investment capacity of the regions and does not significantly affect investment processes. This is again from the reference materials. Investments were virtually out of the range of economic activities such as fishing, agriculture, health care, and so forth. And the increase in investment revenue is mainly due to domestic investment, 75 percent -- again it's your data. And the 25 percent that come in as foreign investment and firms are spent mainly on raw materials. So I'd like to hear what you can do, how you can fix this situation, and what the deadlines are. I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u44	Thank you. You see, we're standing here in front of the fork, the fork of choice. What is it? On the one hand, we often change legislation, the more investment we have, we only have an impact on the overall investment climate. And without increasing investor confidence, you don't have to talk about any investments. When different laws were adopted, with different approaches, with different methods, it was already clear that this imbalance would lead to, firstly, a chaotic involvement of investments, and secondly that it would not produce the positive effects that we talked about. How can we correct the situation today? It's the only law on the basic characteristics of these economic zones that we can explore economic relevance. We're going to debate in Parliament, we're going to understand, however, that for us it's economical and we're going to make this law. Of course, we have a problem with what to do with subjects that are registered? If we're a civilized country, we have to leave them with the conditions under which they're registered, otherwise we'll break the basic principle again. And secondly, what I'm saying, your statistics, is our statistics, which you just announced, are absolutely correct. Most why foreign investment, more loyally, Ukrainian investment than foreign investment? A foreign investor isn't looking for benefits, he's not fighting for benefits, he's fighting for a general economic and functional infrastructure effect. He needs it more than benefits and subsidies. And unfortunately, our investors are still using tax exemptions, which, by the way, highlights the second digit, relatively increased possibilities for benefits, rather than for taxes and congregations. So the law is one that I say is common to all zones. And the second law, which divides the area of the free economic zone, the territory of Ukraine, will make the export regime one way or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u45	Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u46	Oily Peter Mikhailovich, National MP. Questions. Ukraine's law on the special economic zone of Yavorov? This law provides for the establishment of an airport near a pass point across the state border of Cracowec. Ukrainian-Turkish company Krakovets-Honi Autoport, built a truck service. The construction project is in line with the law with all relevant ministries and departments. Last year, Kabmin eliminated a virtually special customs regime from the terminal of the Department of the State of the State of the State and of the State of Dermitcardon, to the point of entry of the Krakovets. Such an arrangement practically nullifies the law of Ukraine and should be repealed. Last year, Krakovets-Glonik, who invested 4.2 million dollars. For the construction of a car terminal, he suffered losses in connection with the termination of his work, and he prepares calls for Kabmin. Please include in the agenda during parliamentary hearings on activities in priority development with the following issue. This issue was considered by the government at the end of last year. We believe that the adoption by the Cabinet of Ukraine of an order to improve the conditions for crossing the state border by means of trucks did not deprive international motorists of the right to use Krakovec. Customs controls and cargo handling may be carried out at border terminals if the carrier agrees. That's also true of the car terminal, Kracrovet-Glonik. At the same time, we propose that this issue be further studied within the framework of the work of the Parliamentary Military Commission and that the final conclusions be reached.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u47	Joseph Wynsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u48	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The figures he called the reporter are, in other words, unconvincing. And more specifically, they're saying that this is another mistake that we had in the economic policy of the state. Massive budget losses have been inflicted, and huge corruption has been generated. I would like to ask this question: Who is the ideologist for the creation of free economic zones, and who personally, with their name on it, will be responsible for the consequences and the damage they have caused to the economy of Ukraine? And the second. We're going to seriously change the tax system. Tax pressure on businesses is going to decrease anyway, we're talking to you about that. What's the point now of creating free economic zones to continue their work if we essentially want to translate the entire economy of Ukraine into an investment regime and a tax facility that will be useful for manufacturing? And don't you think it's time to stop this nonsense that has been happening in Ukraine for a long time with free economic zones?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u49	Thank you for asking. In fact, you answered your questions yourself. We're proposing, and it's a government policy, so to speak, to put order in this area, because, really, we think that the regime that is today is often economically unwarranted. With regard to responsibility. Dear colleagues, if all laws are adopted by the Supreme Council, the question of responsibility falls away automatically. The second question. It's about our economic strategy. I want to emphasize once again, well, let's not get cocky, well, let's not scare off foreign and our Ukrainian investors. The issue of tax cuts is a global economic issue that is spread throughout Ukraine. And if an economic agent understands and sees that he doesn't need to use these benefits. His generalised taxation regime is fine, he'll make his own choice. Another issue is the application of new economic free zones. We suggest introducing a moratorium, and we will be happy if you support us in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u50	Letters, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u51	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Questions. What damage has domestic producers suffered from imports into special economic zones and priority areas of production produced in Ukraine? And national deputy Haydos. The problems that have arisen in the work of food companies, which implement investment projects in special economic zones, are a source of concern. And the question is exactly the same. We fully support the concern of the national deputies regarding problems related to the implementation of projects in the meat processing sector. This is the most pressing, problematic issue today in the activities of CEZ and TPR, which have been repeatedly considered by the government. In addition to losing significant budget revenues, the benefits of importing meat and sub-products are not limited to competitive advantages for individual subjects of the enterprise, as a result of lowering costs on the raw material cost of production and curbing the development of a domestic raw materials base. Thus, since May last year, the government has decided to use exclusively domestic raw materials for investment projects. In addition, investors are invited to invest part of the profits in developing their own raw materials base. In December last year, the Supreme Council passed two laws establishing that the economic regime of free zones and other special zones is not to be extended to transactions involving excise goods and goods from 1 to 24 OCT groups. This eliminated the possibility of import under the tax conditions of taxation of the taxable goods and goods of those groups that I was talking about for new investment projects. However, the final solution to the problem is seen in the legislative elimination of the import duty premiums on raw materials and materials imported for investment projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u52	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u53	The Communist faction, the Radionov. I have a question like the Minister. Tell me, how long or how long will it take for Ukraine not to import bird meat? The import of bird meat is a shameful tradition that makes for an investor the image of Ukraine, that Ukraine cannot even grow a chicken. As a minister, tell us how many years, two, three, how long it will take for us to get rid of this tradition.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u54	Thank you. I'm the only one who's going to notice that this problem, namely the export or import of a particular group of goods, is probably inappropriate to look at in such a narrow context. Let's talk in general about countries specializing in labor markets, in goods and services markets today. And in fact, some countries don't produce cars, they're imported, some countries don't produce food, they're imported. So there's nothing to be afraid of. But by answering your question specifically. In recent years, in fact, our bird industry has grown by 2.5 times. Thus, some 70 percent of Ukraine’s food needs today are derived from chicken. So, if, of course, we keep this dynamic, we're going to be 90-95 percent in a couple of years. But once again, I want to point out that when we talk about import bans. We need to understand right now that we're going to have to do the same thing with export bans. And if you count it, 80 percent of our industry is being exported today, which is now a country that depends on our exports, because the internal market is unfortunately narrowed down. And these issues need to be dealt with very delicately so as not to disrupt the balance created in the country's economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u55	Thank you, Valery Ivanovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The word for the report has the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council Ukraine on economic policy, governance of the national economy, property and investment Stanislaw Ivanovich Gurenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u56	Dear Head, dear companion. Our government's position on the problems of free economic zones and priority areas reflects all the contradictions and inconsistencies in the economic policies of independent Ukraine. You and I never lacked a loud statement, a declaration by senior officials, such as a trajectory of established economic growth based on an innovative model for the development of the domestic economy. There are even fragments of objective analysis, of acute socio-economic crises that are ineffectively increasing, unfortunately, in the real life of Ukrainian society. Yet, it seems that all these declarations and forced confessions are no more than a tribute to the political situation, an attempt to create an illusion of the social orientation of the ruling regime today. At the very best, so to speak, the case ends with the decrees of the President of Ukraine, as it was, for example, in defining a state strategy for overcoming poverty. Meanwhile, life with all its woes, problems with increasing poverty for most Ukrainian citizens continues independently of programs and strategies. The essence of the economic policy of the active authority is also clearly confirmed by the fact that draft legislative acts submitted for the execution of decrees and other directives of the guarantor of the Constitution are often blocked by the Presidential factions in the Supreme Council. That was the fate of all without the exception of draft laws on free zones and areas of priority development. Two of these bills still cannot penetrate God's world for several years, even though there are corresponding decrees. And I am myself, and most of the members of our committee, as well as the faction of her Communist party that I belong to. Far from implementing the "zoning" of Ukraine as an anti-crisis panacea. [[in quotes]] But at the same time, given the specific effects of economic policy, namely, the devastating decline in the volume of agricultural production, the destruction of entire sectors of the national economy, the decline -- think about it! - reducing the number of employees employed by enterprises, institutions and organizations by 10 million compared to 1990. That's 40 percent. So this is the archicrism, I would say, the situation makes the introduction of a form of economic recovery such as the creation of CEZ and TPR useful and necessary. The same is true of the world’s experience. Today, there are more than 1,200 free economic zoos in the world. In doing so, I would like to stress in particular, 600 such zones in the United States, in virtually all countries, their activities have a positive impact on the overall economic processes: the volume of production of goods and services is increasing, the activity of external-economic exchanges is increasing, it is contributing to employment growth, the standard of living of the population is increasing, and so on. At this time, a large number of free zones are concentrated in developing countries, and the proportion of products produced on the territory of all types is estimated at between 5 and 10 percent of the world’s total trade volume. Unfortunately, in the way of making effective use of the world's experience gained in such different countries of the world as the United States and the People's Republic of China, in addition to the absence of a political circle of our leaders, we can't help but talk about it, the nature of the reform of the Ukrainian economy. The activity of many, if not all Ukrainian governments in this area has been directed and directed by foreign advisers who are not objectively interested in improving the socio-economic situation in Ukraine. I didn't have to work with these counselors once, and their extreme argument, the main argument is that you're a poor country, and nothing you can do about the best states of the world, do what we tell you. Yes, the vulgar idea of the state’s role in the market economy now dominates, and I must say, it dominates the performances of the chief government. It dominates both the idea of eliminating any organizational or financial support from the state, which refers to both the economic and individual sectors. The slogan “Pilga is the main enemy of the economy” is stifled by common sense. And today we had a visual opportunity to experience this not in a report that was made quite eloquently, as in answers to the question of Mr. Horoshkowski's distinguished Minister of Economics and European Integration. At the last meeting of the problem of improving the investment climate in Ukraine, the term “sustainable accumulation of benefits” was declared the main reason. Which scares a foreign investor away from Ukraine. Valery Ivanovich was trying to convince us that investors aren't usually attracted to benefits, and here, not only is the secondary system, the secondary means of attracting an investor, but just how the enemy turns out to be a foreign investor is the accumulation of benefits. It is difficult to come up with a similar design, as it was done and placed in the highest places, as the mouth of our nation says. The fight against so - called benefits has turned Ukraine into a kind of witch hunt today. In so doing, virtually none have been affected, and I emphasize none of the major criminal offences that have been used by the subsidized regimes for illegal criminal enrichment. How none of their active and now high patrons have been affected. Unless he went outside Ukraine, as Paul Ivanovich Lazarenko did. The results of the power struggle with the so-called benefits for Ukrainian citizens are well known, the main one is the further impoverishment and extinction of the population. Now, at the same point of view, the government faces or is said to be in the presence of the Minister of Economics and European Integration, integration, sorry, trying to impose the same assessment of the activities of the free zones and areas of the special investment regime. The so - called negative balance of budget revenues — in fact the arithmetical difference between the amount of benefits and the actual budget revenues over a rather short period of time — today seems to be a major criterion for assessing efficiency. In my opinion, here you can choose between two definitions: it's either non-professionalism, or it's a lack of governmental approach to the socio-economic problems of Ukraine. Which is more prevalent here, of course, is known to the heads of the Ministry of Economics. The socio-economic effect has been completely rejected, either intentionally or for some other reason. If we're even talking about, I repeat, a small time frame for the operation of the zones, we see that today, in the project of saving and creating the new 170,000, in general, jobs. In 2002, in fact, 46 thousand 100 were created and preserved. What is it? That's 236 and a half million total wages, isn't that an advantage, is that going to win socio-economic and financial? It's an economy of budget payments that would inevitably have to be made in the form of unemployment aid, if you take that into a total of 46,000 jobs, it's $60 million. Each year. And then there's the payment of all kinds of grants, social assistance and all that. But it's not an image of our Euro-economy. On the contrary, another thesis is now taken on arms. Free economic zones and territories are in conflict with GAT and WTO standards. This is why the committee has already reached several conclusions on this point that the bills relate to the activities of free economic zones and special areas. When Ukraine is still in that WTO, we have to wait, make it, and the economy of the state we're already demanding "cut" today. And by the way, it is not clear to our governing reformers that among the already mentioned six hundred free zones in the U.S., the zealous GAT and SOT fighters are those where the benefits are used, and I want to emphasize, each taxpayer. So the person who pays taxes in a given state uses all the tax benefits, and no one in America cuts it, regardless of the nature of the economic operator, the activity of the taxpayer. It turns out that for our government today, unfortunately, the main thing is to please the real stewards of the World Trade Organization. This is the government of the gold billion Ukraine, which, within this comprehensive international organization, will not give in to their own interests, no matter what principles. I would like to give you one example that I had to get to know personally in the spring of last year as part of a parliamentary delegation of the PRC to Shanghai. There is, it is said, a model area not only in China but also in the world, in Shanghai, the Pudun district, where the special economic zone and special areas, where all the new technologies are being implemented, are Pudun, such a region in Shanghai. So if you look at how money was invested in the development of this area, and there were a lot of them, 39 billion. The money has been invested in one Shanghai City district. [[Think about it!]] So only 30 percent of them are foreign investments. 10 were invested by the government, 30 percent took credit, and 30 percent gave special funds. Today's budget for this area is about $1 billion. In ten years, in ten years, the region's gross domestic product has grown 20 times, and today it's compared to the inner wave product, well, small, let's say, but the developed state, 16 billion. That's a year's worth of dollars. But what happened? I just want to pay attention to one thing. In addition to the major costs invested in infrastructure development, for ten years the district paid a totally fixed contribution to the central budget, despite the frenzy of increasing production volumes, a fixed contribution over ten years. And the results are said to be, 700,000. new jobs. True, every job cost 12,000. That's what I'm talking about. But we don't have much less, we've got about $6,000 worth of low wages today, and it's costing us every job. And I'd like to stop at the summons of the honourable minister. Well, that's right, Valery Ivanovich, you say. But you have to think that this urgent problem, almost all of which you listed, should be addressed by the government. Well, nobody's interested, because, let's say Mr. Azarov left another 40 minutes ago, Mr. Horoshkovsky also gave in, well, I'll make you a deal, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, his schedule. But in my opinion, I'm sorry to be taking away from the main ones. In my opinion, why spend such days with the government? Here are the people who were taken, excuse me, who have come to all the areas, who are sitting in the people's seats, and where is the government? Where's the government? What, Mr. Azarov's uninteresting view of the Economic Policy Committee? Unfortunately, I have to say, that's too much to confirm. What, then, is the attitude of the minister who is concerned about selling the land to begin with, which was handed over five times on television yesterday, according to Mr. Horoshkovsky’s view that the sale of the land should begin immediately? Then there'll be excitement. So what are we going to do here? And finally, I'd like to end it on a more major note. What do you want to do? If this power that exists today is still able to face the major socio-economic problems of Ukraine and to apply or apply existing laws in free economic zones and areas of priority development, I wanted to do so first of all -- legislative changes -- only urgently needed, first of all. The other one. Stop any unauthorized interference of executive power in these zones. Third. To get started, I'm making a commitment here, a joint parliamentary-government commission on economic zones and areas of priority development. And one of the most important is to identify with the methodology of assessing the effectiveness of zones and areas. I would like to think that these measures will in any way ease the economic situation in Ukraine, even though the course of our hearings for this moment raises great doubts as to whether there is both political will and the desire of government leaders to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues, we need to consult. Obviously, we need the committee's decision to vote on Thursday that we shouldn't have these days of government when there are no first people who are responsible for any of the issues. Because this consideration is irrelevant. Because they all made it clear that they had other emergency meetings. I will now speak with the Prime Minister with your permission to return responsible and obviously we need to continue our work and not address what you think about this? And I'm asking the Regulatory Committee, together with the apparatus, to prepare it, to vote that the issues raised in the absence of a reporter or other officials who are required to be present are not dealt with with with with by appropriate hearing of the report on this matter by the Cabinet of Ministers, and I don't see any other way out. Let's move on to the discussion. Out of procedure, please, National Deputy Kostinük.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u58	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Moreover, the honourable Head, what you have said, may also be recommended by the committee to rewrite this draft decision, because I only read in the draft decree “to take note”, “to activate work”, “to count in my work”. Maybe it's the government's job to evaluate, it's worth it to be in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u59	Honorable National MPs. Now we're going to go to the discussion, as a result of the discussion, we're going to have appropriate proposals for the drafting of the relevant decision, please. By procedure, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, head of the committee. Please turn on Matthew's Valentina Grigorvovich's microphone. It's possible from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u60	I thank Vladimir Mikhailovich. We accept the commission to consider the practice of holding parliamentary hearings. Indeed, such parliamentary hearings when they are not interested primarily in the government should not be carried out. We need to leave when we make the right decision. Volodymyr Mikhailovich was recently led by our parliamentary delegation with the Head of the Supreme Council in Japan. We were with you at the Security Committee. Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you at the Japanese Parliament Security Committee, the first Deputy Prime Minister for the absence of the Prime Minister, who was in the United States of America at this time, and four ministers. And to our question is the answer of the Japanese parliamentarians: every day, the working time begins with members of the government from the parliament and ends with consultations, negotiations that they conduct in Parliament. Because it is the end of the nation's fate, the fate of the nation. I would like our respected officials to hear this and draw the right conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u61	Thank you. Honourable national MPs, if fair, objectively and responsibly appropriate, would have to stop the government's meeting now. However, in order not to show our weakness, let us finish it, and on Monday at the Conciliation Council, we will agree on this and we will vote and make the right decisions. It's the face of the entire Parliament, it's the attitude of the entire Parliament. And I would then ask the leaders of all factions and MPs, when the right decision has been made, to express their attitude by voting, sorry for the tautology, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, Yuri Carmazin. All right, let's get back to work, shall we? Yuri Karmazin, we're moving on to the discussion, half an hour, the "Our Ukraine" faction, to prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u62	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs, individual deputy heads of ministries and departments, because there are no others in the hall today, unfortunately. We had Mr. Gurenco at all, asking: Where is the government? And what I'm saying is, there's no government in this state. What they call power today means the President. So here's what I'm thinking: Leonide Danilovich Kuchma, look at the government you've appointed and your majority. I'm talking to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, no one said a word about the state of Government Day because it was approved by this Supreme Council. This position clearly states that the Prime Minister is present. You're the first to lose weight. You said, "Let the Vice Prime Minister come, say hello and so on." You don't have to do that. You don't have to do that. The second weakness they've made. We were supposed to give up the materials in five days, delivered yesterday after lunch. What type of letter was it inscribed on us? Why did we do this? We were given a special type so that we could not read. Size 11-12 when zoomed out. And for that, a small text, overturned pages. I have a request from Mr. Yanukovich. If he's interested in anything in the state at all, except that the emptiness doesn't go back to Donetsk. So look at the way they're being prepared, the way they're passing the documents to the Supreme Council, and how they're being accepted. So the fin began, Vladimir Mikhailovich, from the time we accepted these documents for consideration, sorry, not today’s meeting. Now, on the issue of the effectiveness and relevance of these zones. Those figures that are sounding, they already make it clear that there is no efficiency whatsoever. Why not? Cosma Prutkov taught us to take root. Now let's think about why there is no economy in Ukraine. Because there is a Minister for Economic Affairs and Euro-Integration. Isn't it clear that these functions need to be divided: either by economics or by Euro-Integration. Something like that. It was Mr. Horoshkowski who chose Euro-Integration today. And at the expense of Euro-integration, the entire economy of the state is losing. So I think Horoshkowski is not from the meeting, he's gone at all, and let's keep doing business, he's doing better. I'm talking to the factions that recommended him here. Now, let's talk about the numbers. Of course, it has been changed into soap, it is clear that the negative balance of 640 million, and obviously we have to say that the benefits for the CEZ, which SP benefits did not give Ukraine the raise it was meant to be. I'm drawing your attention to the law on the general principles of creating and operating special free economic zones. And it says, "the purpose of creating special economic zones is to attract and promote foreign investment, to increase the export of goods." [[Part 2 of Article 1]] The law states what the economic zone is for. Right in the law itself. That's why all the activity that was involved -- driving traffic, driving cars and so on -- is a violation of the law. That's what you need to respond to, that's all. And then let them work. Anything on export, let it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u63	Thank you. I would just like to remind you that the Prime Minister or the person appointed by the Prime Minister will report in accordance with order. The Prime Minister appointed the Minister of Economics and Integration, so nothing was disturbed. It's just another question that, apart from the Minister of Economics and Integration, there are more pressing issues than communicating with the Supreme Council, that's already a question on another plane. Please, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Get ready for Schultz instead of Shepetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u64	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Today, for the next time, we are convinced that good work can be lost, in view of the establishment of free economic zones in our country, which were primarily designed to attract investment from abroad. The creation of BSE is not the opening of our legal professions and economists. They were created in virtually all developed countries and in small territories, and they worked for a time until the State or region had the economic impact that the creation of BSE was intended to have, but the Government's complete uncontrolledness behind their work had led to the flow of products from Bush knives and low-speed expansion instead of investments from abroad. The process of establishing BMS has taken place in a natural and unscheduled manner, by the will and decision of those who wish to enrich themselves rather than those who think for the interests of the State. Free economic zones were created primarily where investments could not be made to earn solid dividends. These are the highly developed industrial regions of Donetsk and Dnepropetrovsk, as well as the unique species of Zakarpatsky trees, in which the barbaric logging of forest areas has practically led the region to an environmental disaster. Because Ukraine is an agricultural country, we have 40 per cent of the stock of black and probably the creation of BSEs and should be directed by the Government in that direction. But it happened the other way around, and instead of rebuilding, building our own productive capacity for agricultural technology, we went on the road to transporting it to Ukraine under government safeguards. For example, we had a beautiful star production group in the Kyrovgrad region called the Flagman for the creation and production of seed machinery. In addition to four activities, the production association consisted of a project and project technology institute, with a team of almost 14,000 employees. Today, these are pitiful remnants of former power, institutions are not functioning, and the number of workers in the main factory is just over 2,000. Given that we, I stress, are the inhabitants of Europe, we should have entered investment. Unfortunately, however, some of our regional leaders, who focused on the sale and privatization of the region's enterprises and put them on scrap metal, did not face the issue of the restoration of the "Beautiful Star". And there was another attraction on the top -- they were moving from abroad to Ukraine with agricultural technology, starting with the John Dire combines and ending with the farmers and even the browns. This high policy is called “Policy of Discrimination of its own Producer” and is being pursued by the leaders of a single world of States whose name is Ukraine. In my view, there is today a need for a thorough analysis of the work of BSE and a legal assessment of the individual lobbyists behind the establishment of zones and solid capital, as well as the leaders from Grusevski Street, for the complete uncontrolledness of their work. Only a clear record and strict control, as Vladimir Ilic Lenin wrote in 1918 on the work of the Soviet authorities, can remove Ukraine from the current economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u65	Thank you. Nestor Schuffrich. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u66	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, Nestir Schufrich, faction of the social-democratic party of the United Ukraine. Of course, the development of special free economic zones and priority areas and the special investment regime have both positive and negative trends. We can't ignore the fact that it's a positive fact that investment is mainly made up of the capital of the enterprises SEZ and TPR. Investments in the main equity total 80 percent of the investment involved. Positive trends in CEZ and TPR also need to be addressed by increasing investment resources from domestic investors to 74.3 per cent in 2002. In addition, we consider it important to increase the participation of Ukrainian commercial banks in the financing of the projects mentioned above, which are confirmed by the increase in such investments in 2002 to double to 25 percent. The sector’s structure of investment involved is gradually improving, namely, the part of machine building is growing. From 10 percent in 2001, to 20 percent in 2002. Food industry from 8.9 percent to 12. Gourmet business from 5.8 according to 10.6. Transport from 3.1 to 5.5. Manufacture of electrical and electronic equipment from 1.6 to 4.6. We can't overlook the negative trends in CEZ and TPR. There are no trends in growth and there are still small per capita rates of investment in Zitomirsk -- $0.5 in 2000 and $0.4 in 2001 -- in Lugansk -- respectively, $4.3 and $0.8 per capita. In both the Zitomir and the Luhansk region, that is, there are no positive trends in development mainly in areas that can be described as depressed. Although for the sake of justice, there is an exception to this sad rule. For example, in the Zakartat region, there is a steady growth rate of 8.8 million investments. In the 99th, 23.4 in the 2000s and the total investment volume is 84 million. That's right. Of course, we cannot leave this high rostrum without turning to the government with the following suggestions. Taking into account the low performance of the special investment regime as a tool for socio-economic development, introduce a moratorium on the creation of new CEZs and TPRs. Make changes to the default agreement for investment projects in CEZ and TPR in part of increasing the party's responsibility, first and foremost, to the investor's terms of implementation. Instruct the Cabinet of Ministers, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the Regional Public Administrations in each investment project to analyse the reasons for the failure to fulfil their investment commitments and to make appropriate decisions on investment projects for which investment commitments are not carried out. And the last. Mine-economics along with other central executive bodies and economic institutions of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences by the end of this year to organize a comprehensive economic and legal expertise on the rule of law and the effectiveness of special economic zones and areas of priority development. We consider it necessary to examine fully the experience gained by Ukraine in the development of SEZ and TPR, and with the results of such an expertise, to return to the consideration of this important issue in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u67	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction. Prepare John the Rabbit. Anatoly Frost, will you be performing? Please, John Mihovich is given the word Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u68	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Honorable members of the government, colleagues, voters! The effectiveness of free economic zones and high-priority areas is confirmed by world and already our humble domestic experience. As far as the Carpathian Zone is concerned, it is actually the only island of an efficient economy in a ruined national economy. The first positive social consequences are already visible. So our faction takes a constructive position on this issue. We don't take the firm urge of office economists to cancel all the zones. And as much as you can break, destroy, beyond the "and not the gamma, and not the other" kind of fruitless. The potential of the machinery under consideration is great. Without that, I repeat, there would be nowhere in our area to take the President or other distinguished guests if there were no objects in the free economic zone. However, she faces great challenges in her condition. What is necessary for the normal functioning of these mechanisms? In short, their permanent uncertainty, general discreditation, and hidden sabotage must be stopped. Instead, they can create appropriate legislative, organizational, and technical preconditions. This is primarily the case with the cancellation of the Government's order of 456 years since 17 August 2002, which preserves double taxation. From this and many other issues, the government has made appropriate proposals, but they are still meeting instead of supporting all manner of ignorance. Secondly, the State must fulfil its obligations to create infrastructure for free economic zones. Thus, 80 million dollars were foreseen for this purpose in the CEZ, but no copies have yet been allocated. Third. It is necessary, as already stated, to have a comprehensive methodology for assessing the work of the joint zones that took into account their conditions and results. It is appropriate to hold a solid scientific practical conference in Uzhgrad or Donetsk. Four. In general, a normal political, moral climate is needed in the country for this cause, for the ban on zones will do no harm to Ukraine. We better think of how to adapt to our real mechanisms, experiences of China, Russia, Poland, and other neighbors. Clearly, the activities of the zones objectively restrict the authority of the central control bodies, so they pose various obstacles to the matter. According to experts, there is a well - planned policy of black lobbying, a thorough violation of requirements, and rules of fair competition. Prepared and lobbied through appropriate organs, all kinds of additions to the laws in force are to be compared with the previous one. Such are the changes to the Tax Code and other documents. And these phenomena need to be tackled. At last, the prospect of expanding the map of the special economic zone of the Carpathians, bringing its objects closer to other depressive cities and villages has been seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u69	John the Rabbit, the faction of "Our Ukraine," to prepare the Fomenk Catherine, is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u70	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! We should note that our governing authority has been discredited and discredited by the institutions of special economic zones and areas of priority. These territories did not become the fires of investment, the purpose of the Law on General Principles for the Functioning of Special Free Economic Zones, was not achieved in any direction. I'm going to remind you that there were several directions like this. It's the involvement of foreign investment, it's the revitalization of entrepreneurial activities, the involvement and introduction of new technologies in market methods, the development of market infrastructure, the improvement of the use of natural and labour resources, the acceleration of socio-economic development. SEZ and TPR have essentially become competitive structures in the formation of the internal market using their own production. The effectiveness of these territories is discussed in these numbers. If investments were expected to amount to $2.6 billion, a little over a third was actually involved. At the same time, there was a tax benefit of 2 billion dollars. It's worth about a billion dollars, and it's $2 billion. That's how we have the economy. How, then, can we talk about the effectiveness of the Institute’s activities? What do we have from their activities? Now, honourable Members, I want to stop at the issue of improving and using natural and labor resources. If our authorities really cared about the use of scarce natural resources, they would not have made the decision that the President and the Council of National Security and Defence had taken on Friday evening in the essentially elimination of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. I'll remind you that in accordance with this decision, the Minister, the First Deputy Secretary of State and many other officials have been released, but it is precisely this decree that the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources and the Ministry of Environment and the State Committee of Natural Resources be dismembered. So the function of government regulation of natural resources will be brought down from the Ministry level to the level of the State Committee. This is the subconscious destruction of that system of integrated governance that began to be built in Ukraine and that is already going throughout Europe and that our neighbours are going north, and Russia, and Belarus. In fact, this decision has shown that the control of natural resources needs to be eliminated and given to the oligarchs. Then, if such a policy is to be pursued, please tell me, within the entire state, can the use of scarce natural resources be ensured in special economic zones? Impossible. So have no illusions. Today we see these economic zones being used only to block the creation of Ukraine's internal market. And each of you knows that the internal economy, even the export-oriented economy, is operating on its market about 70 to 80 percent of its power. We're bringing production here far from the technological level and destroying the village and other things. So, dear friends, I propose that we assess the government's activity as unsatisfactory in this area, especially that there is no representative of the government in our Hall today. They just ignore all of you and ignore you by calling out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u71	Is there a national MP, Alexander Pecklesenko? Please. It's a faction of Ukraine. Basil Nadrag will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u72	Region of Ukraine, 84 constituency, Zaporozhye region. Today, I think, is a very important question: whether economic zones are needed or not. My deep conviction is necessary. In my district, there are several reycenters, reycenters that have the greatest industrial potential: an abrasive combination, tractor factories, sewing, footwear factories. Today it's all closed, with excellent qualified personnel, and there's a perfect material base. How can we resuscitate this? Only through economic categories and mechanisms. You said in your statement, Stanislav Ivanovich, that there had been a situation today where 10 million jobs had been lost. But it's not exactly there. Speaking of the Minister, he said that there were 64,000 jobs, out of a range of 32,000 created. Neither you nor the minister were told and the main economic zone was named where the people went. The name of this economic zone is shadow. And I think that's what we need to talk about today. How to eliminate this major, murderous economic zone for Ukraine. There are mechanisms. And here, in my view, is our constant controversy with the Government on a political basis, not about how to talk about models, how to fight in the shadows. For even today, the Committee Chairman did not say, except for those three main proposals, what must be done to combat the shadow. In my opinion, there are two main points. First. We need to close the window, the coils, and the doors through which hundreds of millions of cargo units are coming through to stop our production. Who doesn't understand?Oh, my God! Second moment. The economic, territorial interest of people in paying taxes must be developed. The Territory has implemented its 120 per cent performance today, give 10 per cent to the Territory. It has reached 150 percent — give 25 percent of the territory. And everything will go, everything will go. Until then, we in the country will pretend that some are paying taxes and others are collecting them, we will not solve any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u73	Yes, Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP. The next one will be by Andrew Klovev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! It's a general thesis. I think there is no point in discussing today whether special economic zones are needed. The question is in what capacity and authority and on what legislative basis. From this point of view and from the fact that in the territory of Lugansk, where I am the Mayor, nine priority development territories, I want to say that they are all based on coal-based territories, six cities and three areas. What is a coal industry or how it has, unfortunately, come to such an economic situation today, I don't think it's necessary to talk about it in this room. But there are the results of these special economic zones, priority development zones. So there are some outcomes. The first result that I think is actually the conquest of the Luhansk region. Today, as a result of the implementation of projects, payments amounting to 84.8 million dollars have been charged to all levels of the budget. The amount paid on a conditional basis under the Leniency Tax Scheme is 24.2 million grivens. Thus, it can be said that the real money received from the fact that this economic mechanism worked 3.5 times more if nothing changed there. The same situation this year. In 14 months, there is a positive surplus of income to the budget compared to tax benefits of over 16 million bracelets. A priority development programme is currently being developed. It is an integral part of the socio-economic development of the region until 2011. Today, there are six other projects on the committee of our Supreme Council on priority development territories in the Luhansk region. And I think that if we evaluate the state of affairs today in the Luhansk region, we can make one assessment. And if we evaluate the economic trends that hit the coal the most, and therefore the Lugansk region, I think we'll understand what it is and why the Lugans prove that priority development zones are vital to them. But I would like to focus more on the problems we face in this work. First. The low investment attractiveness of our territories due to the lack of developed infrastructure. He doesn't want to go to an investor when he's offered to live in a scarf, get horses or walk to that area. The second is the instability of the regulatory framework. Economic activities are constantly changing. Hence, it is necessary to permit: the first is that all business activities, except those prohibited by law, should be permitted in priority development zones. Next moment. Expand investment interests of potential investors from more attractive territories. Third. Unfortunately, we have bureaucratic delays in conducting the examinations, reaching incomprehensible sizes. So we have a proposal. Authorize regions to consider investment projects. And the last. In order to improve, what needs to be done in priority development zones. First. One law is needed to improve the existing legal and regulatory framework. Next, remove the limit at the minimum level of investment. $500,000 is not the cost of any project that may be in this area. Next. Allow investors to engage in all business activities. And the last. Grant regions the right to conduct an investment project self-exploration, shortening the duration and red tape. As a conclusion, we need priority zones. The only condition, stability and permanence of the rules of the game for 30 years if we want a serious investor to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u75	Andrew Clovis. The faction of "Ukraine", Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, is now considering the very important issue of “The direction of State economic policy”. In order to discuss it, a number of questions need to be answered first. First. For what have special economic zones been created and established from the territory of priority development? This is to boost the economy of depressed territories, attract investment and create new jobs. Second. What is SEZ and TPR? Free Economic Zones and Priority Development Territories are primarily an internationally recognized instrument for attracting investment. I would like to refer to that analytical note and make a little analysis of what we have been presented to the Supreme Council today. First. Unfortunately, this analysis suffers from chronic illness and an average room temperature. Hence the anticipated rapid treatment by cutting off hands, legs and, unfortunately, some also have a headache. The analytical note begins with data from the overall plan, which shows the enormous inefficiency of these regimes, i.e. the total result of which is minus 646 million. Grieve. However, there are no significant indications that about five bracelets of investment capital have been received for one bracelet of benefits. That is, as a result of a 25 per cent reduction in tax pressure, the economy received an additional EUR 5.4 billion in investments. Next, second. In analysing BMS and TDP regimes, it was forgotten that the net financial result should be calculated in the light of the dynamics in investment projects and their implementation cycles: construction, launch, access to project capacity. Only on the basis of such professional analysis can reliable conclusions be drawn on the effectiveness of investment and benefits. Third. It is simply a startling desire of some analysts to worsen the performance of SEZs and TDPs by taking into account the amount of conditionally assessed payments on the basis of marginal duties. Such duties are the falling revenue of some analysts. Please answer one question: When and what budget does the block duty take into account? In providing conditionally accrued payments as real benefits, analysts have shown an unwarranted increase of more than twice as much as 250 million. Grieve. I would now like to focus on the results of the work of the SEZ and TPR on Ukraine. That's about 98,000. New jobs, which are attracted investments of about a billion dollars, are 10 times more labour productivity than in the enterprises concerned, which do not work under the special investment regime, is the average wage above 600 bracelets. Therefore, I would like to see that when we have a decision on this issue, it is essential that we do not become inflamed with SEZ and TPR. And there is one such eastern wisdom that when a caravan turns backwards, unfortunately, it is very often a lame camel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u77	Please, Anatoly Frost. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u78	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we all know in the Horoshkovsky report and in the information given to us by the Government, that the purpose of the introduction of a special regime of investment and investment in priority economic activities is to address the socio-economic problems of depressive areas whose economies have suffered substantial losses and structural changes. I'm very sorry that we didn't include Zaporez's area in special economic zones and areas of priority development. I've talked a few times about the fact that an area that has a leading place in per capita income, and today at the expense of spending, it's probably the last place in the tournament table, that's probably unfair. Perhaps this is the result of the very question that we are considering, perhaps our weakness. But I think there are problems in the Zaporozhye area that need to be addressed immediately. We all know that there is a Stepnoiorsk that the President has not spoken of once and has tried to help save this city. And there are also resort zones. This is Berdyansk, Primorsk, who also need investment. Sadly, though, this issue is not being resolved today. Perhaps during the period of operation of the CEZ and TPR, the authorities of the special areas say that 587 investment projects have been approved, with investments of 1 billion. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} More than $70,000, creating more than 70,000 new jobs and saving about a hundred thousand. But have we reached that goal? It seems to me that, in part, we do not seem to have done so. Perhaps this is related to objective, subjective factors, which can be explained by the instability of legislation regarding the creation and functioning of CEZs, and TPRs. Imperfection of individual legislative and regulatory rules that create unequal conditions for entrepreneurial activity between SEZ and TPR. But I think that by actually creating CEZs and TPRs we create competitive advantages for individual subjects of entrepreneurship by reducing costs of raw materials and materials of self-sustainability. It must be determined that the Government's mandate to the central executives is to monitor compliance with legislation in the EU and the TPR. According to DDPA, a number of abuses have been detected, 14 criminal cases have been committed, and the structure of open crime predominates abuse, possession, and theft of property, and so on. But in my opinion, if the government really wants to create something for these regions, create conditions conducive to economic development, we need to either stop this nonsense, or make it really work for the economy. Because basically all of this is used to wash off capital or to benefit Ukraine. It's better to make money, I think, rather than get the benefits that we're giving these very special economic zones and TPRs today. We need to balance the economy to put planning into the economy and then I think they'll live well and work normally and function in other regions of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u79	Thank you. He's invited to the word of Vladimir Demöhochin, the "People's Rule" band, we'll take the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u80	Respectable People's Deputies, Honourable Attendings. The effectiveness of the special economic zones and territories of priority development in Ukraine is now among the most discussed and debated experts and the media. The special economic mechanism, which is the SEZ and TPR, is not effectively implemented, is already subject to doubt and braking. The main task today is to consider the establishment of a complete mechanism for the operation of zones and territories. To move on to a truly economic mechanism that we could be proud of and experience. We have seen this again, when we were in preparation for today's meeting, for today's Government Day. In Donetsk, before that, economic arguments for the establishment of functional special zones and priority development territories were examined in the Yavoriv SEZ. I will address some of the issues of concern. The position of the Government, and above all the Ministry of Economics, is still passively observable in terms of support and assistance and bureaucratic in the performance of regulatory functions. Formally, the economy has a large share of SEZs and TDPs, but it does not differ from targeted activities. The Ministry of Economics protects its expertise in investment projects of SEZ and TDP. Thus, out of the 120 projects declared last year, 29 were rejected and some 90 were sent for finalization. Let us imagine how many initiatives have simply been stalled and why they are not in line with public interests. One of the most pressing problems that exists today in the SEZ is the reimbursement of VAT by exporters, many examples. I will take a brief look at the situation of the Nikolai SEZ. A week ago, I visited there on a work trip specifically before today’s meeting. Two indicators are sufficient to determine the subject of the zone. Over 10,000 jobs have been retained as a result of investment projects, while 7 courts are being built today. The share of enterprises among all Ukrainian actors in the SEZ is 38.6 per cent. All export products. Enterprises have good momentum in the movement to increase the proportion of domestic ship equipment in the ready-made vessel. Interestingly, today, 22 million unpaid VAT will be 36 by the end of the year. What kind of support is there? And when it comes to specific figures, for example, in terms of social protection, one and a half thousand bracelets today, the average salary of a dishwasher is three shifts, and the price of housing in the factory area has risen. And in terms of conclusions, what I would like to say. Under the existing legal and regulatory framework, the development of SEZs and TPRs has been sufficiently successful in regions where the subjective factor of non-organization has not been dominant. That is, where there are specific people with fire in their eyes who want to solve the issue. The combination of existing inconsistencies in the legislative provisions of SEZs and TPRs is significant, but it can be overcome by a major desire. And suggestions. The Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers will achieve the results of the work of the recently established joint commission. But most interestingly, on the part of the Supreme Council, the members of the commission have already been identified, by the government, as long as we have nothing. And the Supreme Council's decision should pay particular attention to the activities of the SEZ and TPR and ensure its implementation at all levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u81	Thank you. We're finishing the question. Singer's procedure, Socialist Party. Please explain the microphone of the People's Chamberlain, the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u82	Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelničina I'd like to pay attention to two moments. First moment. This is because today discussions on free economic zones are taking place without an object, as it were. And I'm talking to the respectable members of the government, maybe even though they'll hear on the radio that they need to be at the top of their heads in this situation. Now they've gone into the shadows, and this once confirms what the Socialist Party of Ukraine claimed on a number of occasions. We're probably the only faction in the Supreme Council that's never voted in favour of individual laws in separate free special zones and areas of priority development because now in the state, criminal oligarchy clans are already under control. In this country, the free economic zone is transformed into a tool for laundering dirty money. That's what I'm talking about. And if we have an increase in the import of raw materials today, then I'm sorry, it puts a heavy yoke on the neck, on the shoulders, on the hands, on the feet of the Ukrainian people. And that's why this is where you need a cardinal shift, first of all, and the adoption of a framework law on basic species, shapes, special economic zones for the purpose of developing your own production. This is what we're going to support, and we're going to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u83	Thank you. We completed our consideration of the first issue of today’s agenda, we need to consult with the national deputies as to whether there is a need to take a break and there were different thoughts: to move on to the second question. A break? Are we moving? If you insist, the Committee insists on a recess, let's take a break for 20 minutes, and the next meeting will be held at 0 12 o'clock for 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u84	Let's get back to work. Read the Rules, Yuri Anatoliovich. There's no such thing. Oh, about that. There's no Kabmin law. Thank you very much, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats. It is announced in the context of Ukrainian Government Day - information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the friendship, cooperation and partnership agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation since 31 May 1997. At the suggestion of a profile committee, the next order of hearing is proposed. Information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which will be delivered by Jelchenko Volodymyr Juryovich, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within 20 minutes, answers to written questions and oral questions within 25 minutes, a statement by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the foreign affairs of Stasev Stanislav Telisforovich - up to 10 minutes, a discussion of information - up to 20 minutes. Is there a denial? If not, we will begin the discussion. I would like to write to the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Yelchenka Vladimir Yuriovich. Well, you know the offer, since there are no appointed deputy ministers, then the secretary of state is, they're assigned -- then the name will be changed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national deputies. The Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership Agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation of 31 May 1997, which established the principles and strategic nature of the partnership between our States, continues to be a fundamental political and legal basis for Ukrainian-Russian inter-State relations. Ukraine's main objectives and objectives in developing relations with Russia in the political sphere are to ensure an equal partnership, mutual support for state sovereignty, territorial integrity and the integrity of borders, the principle of parity both in bilateral relations and in the development of cooperation with third countries, including international organisations and structures. We come from the need to build relations with Russia on the basis of mutual respect and trust, which are essential elements of a strategic partnership. The implementation of the great treaty is under constant control by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The main and relevant issues that are constantly being addressed to the Russian side are: implementation of basic contractual instruments, cooperation in the field of fuel and energy and provision in Ukraine of Russian natural gas, the activities of the mixed Ukrainian-Russian Cooperation Commission, the transfer to Ukraine of its share of foreign ownership of the former USSR, the operation of the Black Sea fleet of Russia in Ukraine, the completion of the construction of the land part of the interstate border and the determination of the status of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait, the return of the funds of the Ukrainian legal persons from the accounts of the former USSR foreign economy. Current problems of commercial and economic co-operation, cross-account payments, implementation of a joint programme for the creation of a military transport aircraft, Russia's participation in the completion of the construction of the power grids of the Revensky and Hmelnicka AES, etc. Humanitarian problems. Satisfying Ukrainian and Russian language requests, guaranteeing Ukrainian labour rights in Russia and their consular protection, pension insurance, return of Ukrainian deported peoples, etc. Cooperation in the United Nations and other international organizations. And finally, international problems, including participation in a joint fight against terrorism. The implementation of article 2 of the agreement on territorial integrity and recognition of each other took place on 28 January this year, as a result of an agreement between Ukraine and Russia on the Ukrainian-Russian state border, which will soon be ratified by the parliaments of the two countries. And as we hope, it will be ratified simultaneously in both Ukraine and Russia. According to article 5 of the great treaty, various consultations are held each year at all levels. In recent times, negotiations between presidents, heads of parliament and the governments of the two countries have increased significantly. In addition, to implement this article of the treaty, the most pressing issues of cooperation between countries are referred to the mixed Ukrainian-Russian Cooperation Commission, established in accordance with the 1996 Agreement, which consists of 13 subcommittees from the main directions of cooperation. Since creation, the commission has held its 8th meeting. The main issues that were discussed during the last meeting in March of this year in Moscow relate to the state of mutual trade and prospects for trade and economic relations. Cooperation has fallen on the energy complex, the military and technical sphere, aviation and space industries, transport, the humanitarian sphere, the provision of the functioning of the Black Sea Russian fleet in Ukraine, the resolution of border issues, and so on. With regard to military and technical cooperation, whose development is foreseen in article 8 of the Treaty, it has gained a new, more practical sound in recent years. Its main focus is the development of cooperation in the development and production of weapons and military technology, the development of a joint programme for the creation of high-tech weapons and military technology. Preparation of proposals to reconcile joint work with weapons development and modernization programmes by 2010, extension of weapons and military technology. However, there are major issues of concern. Yes, the first priority for our nation is the definition of Russia's further involvement in the implementation of the Ukrainian-Russian program for the creation and production of the military transport aircraft "AN-70". Dear National Deputies! In the area of implementation of the Treaty on the Development of Equitable Mutual Cooperation in the Economy, it is up to the parties to make further efforts to complete a series of provisions of the Treaty. This applies, first of all, to articles 13 and the most important component of our relationship -- trade and economic cooperation. It is worth noting that joint efforts by the end of last year have significantly reduced some negative trends in trade and economic relations, especially the decline in trade between the two countries. It should be noted that since the year 96 Ukraine has repeatedly been subject to various trade restrictions by Russia, which have negatively affected the presence of traditional Ukrainian goods in the Russian market. Yes, in just the last two years, part of Ukraine’s peak oil, fats, and air - conditioned products has been reduced in the total imports of Russia by nearly five, fruit - bearing products by one third, tires, wallpapers, and fittings by more than twice. Black metal and tocarry presses are about half the size. In fact, they are virtually completely evicted from the Russian market by Ukrainian alcohol, cigarettes, and sugar. This is explained both by limited measures and by the advance growth in Russian imports of similar products from other countries. That's how. In principle, Russia is ignoring both the provisions of article 13 of the Treaty and the memorandum on the principle of non-application of special measures for imports of goods originating in the customs territory of the parties signed in October 2001 in Kiev. As we can see from the above, the potential of Ukrainian-Russian cooperation is being used to a far less full extent, which requires us to make even greater efforts to remove existing obstacles to our countries' trade and economic co-operation. More and more attention has been given to regional and foreign cooperation in recent times. The treaty implementation process facilitated the signing of an inter-regional and cross-border cooperation programme between Ukraine and Russia for 2000-2007. Today, active business contacts with neighbouring regions of Russia have been conducted in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk, Lvivsk, Sumski and other areas of Ukraine. More than 200 agreements have been signed at the regional level of Ukraine and Russia. At the same time, it should be noted that the development of this important two-way cooperation is restrained both by the lack of coordination between the central authorities of Ukraine and Russia and by the lack of appropriate regulatory frameworks. In this connection, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs proposes to consider the possibility of developing an intergovernmental agreement on principles, mechanisms for the development of interregional cooperation, as well as the appropriateness of setting up a mixed committee on cooperation, a subcommittee on interregional and cross-border cooperation, to which a monitoring function could be put. In accordance with article 17, issues in the area of transport between Ukraine and Russia are addressed within the framework of the transport subcommission. Today, there have been three sessions of this subcommittee. On 9 December 2002, a joint meeting was held between the College of Mintrans of Ukraine and Mintrans of the Russian Federation, with the participation of the Ministry of the Russian Ministry of Communications, at which the Cooperation Programme between Mintrans of Ukraine and Mintrans of Russia was approved for 2003-2007 and the Concept for the Development of International Corridors, which take place in the territories of the two countries. One of the sensitive issues that is under constant control in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and needs a final settlement is the distribution of former property of the Soviet Union, including immovable property abroad, article 19 of the great treaty. As a result of the negotiations, as of today, the parties have prepared consolidated texts of the drafts of the following documents: Agreements between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Russia on terms, mechanisms and terms for the transfer to Ukraine of the immovable property of the former Soviet Union abroad; the mechanism for the implementation of the above agreement or contract for the use of such objects. Although negotiations have been slow lately, consensus has been reached on many issues. Unsolved are the principles of the parties’ reconciliation of the list of real estate objects in 36 countries that will be transferred to Ukraine for diplomatic and consular purposes, as well as the use of real estate objects and the mechanism for the implementation of the Intergovernmental Agreement. Recently, the Russian Federation put forward a proposal for a step - by - step design of objects, such as a transfer agreement that has already been reached on the Ukrainian side. I believe that this proposal deserves attention, and the negotiations on these issues will continue. We've been able to remove the tension in the fuel-energy complex. Based on the terms of the treaty, article 20 has legally solved most of the problems between the two nations, particularly the so - called gas problem, which has long created not only economic but also political tensions in bilateral relations. An intergovernmental agreement on additional measures and transit of Russian natural gas in Ukraine was signed in 2001. In addition, the Presidents of Ukraine and Russia signed a joint statement in St. Petersburg in June 2002 on cooperation in the energy field and a tripartite statement at the participation of the Chancellor of the FRF to ensure the unbreakable transit of Russian gas into Europe. Today, these arrangements are formed in an intergovernmental agreement on a strategic partnership in the gas field signed last October by the heads of government of Ukraine and the ERF in Kishenev. At the same time, an agreement was signed between NAC Naftogaz of Ukraine and VAC Gazprom on the creation of an international consortium for the management and development of Ukraine's gas transport system. Under article 21 of the Treaty, work is being done to develop cooperation with the Russian Federation in the space field. It is based on two basic agreements, as well as programmes of cooperation between Ukraine and Russia in the field of research and the use of space for peaceful purposes for 98-2007. Dear National Deputies! An important issue of bilateral cooperation is cooperation with Russia in the field of education and science, article 23. Since 1997, four intergovernmental documents have been drawn up to regulate this area. An agreement between the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of General Vocational Education of Russia and on co-operation in the field of education since 1998, the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of Russia on the Mutual Recognition and Equivalence of Documents on Education and Science since 2000, the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the Establishment and Functioning of the Branch of Higher Education Institutions of Ukraine in the Russian Federation and the branch of Russian higher education institutions in Ukraine since May this year. Protocol to amend the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Russia on the mutual recognition and equivalence of educational and scientific documents also since May this year. At present, the priority is to achieve parity in the context of the satisfaction of the Ukrainians ’ educational demands in Russia. In recent years, Ukrainian-Russian cooperation in the humanitarian field has also been a driving force for constructive negotiations, articles 12 and 24 of the Treaty. The positive trends in many directions have become particularly evident since the rise in the level of the Humanitarian Cooperation Sub-Commission in the framework of a large mixed committee. A constructive dialogue takes place in the fields of culture, education, science, youth policy, sports, tourism, health, social protection of citizens, and migration processes. A solid contractual and legal basis for Ukrainian-Russian humanitarian cooperation has been created, which today includes about 50 inter-government and inter-ministerial bilateral documents. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine provides a comprehensive contribution to the sector ministries and authorities in order to develop cooperation in the areas of return of illicit cultural values, burial of victims of war and political repression in Ukraine and Russia. Additional efforts and political will require the implementation of the Treaty on the Development of Cultural and Humanitarian Cooperation, including the opening of national, cultural and public institutions, as well as the historic memorial sites of Ukraine in Russia. So far, an intergovernmental agreement on the establishment and conditions of information and culture centres, which was signed in February 1998, has not been ratified by the Russian side. The Ukrainian Diaspora in Russia does not have systematic Ukrainian education, cultural arts, press, radio, and television in its own language. It needs to be activated on the basis of cooperation in the area of return of cultural values illegally exported from Ukraine to Russia. The issue of the establishment of a nationwide Ukrainian newspaper, which should become the main information body for providing the social and cultural and information needs of Ukrainians in Russia, is acute. There is now in Russia, as a pilot, a project of a bilingual independent edition of Ukrainians called the Ukrainian Survey. The question of establishing Michael Gruszewski’s memorial board in Moscow and a number of other issues remains unresolved. Dear National Deputies! In recent years bilateral youth cooperation has intensified. An agreement has been signed between the Cabinet of Ukraine on the government of Russia in the field of youth policy and the interministerial programme of cooperation for this year in the field of youth policy. In order to implement the provisions of the agreement on cooperation in family policy and gender equality, a project of an interdisciplinary programme for bilateral cooperation for this year has been developed. By developing social protection cooperation, including pensions for citizens, making special agreements with a view to resolving employment and social protection issues, two major clusters of issues can be identified. [[This is article 27 of the treaty.]] First block. These issues are related to the illegal labour migration of Ukrainian citizens. And the second block. These are issues of social protection and pensions for Ukrainian citizens who worked in areas of the Far North of the Russian Federation. At this time, the features of pension insurance for such citizens who have worked in the North and now live in Ukraine are regulated by the Agreement on Guarantees of the Rights of Nationals of the SND in the Field of Pension Insurance since 1992 and by the interim agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Russia on guarantees of the rights of such citizens in the area of pension insurance since 1993. Ukraine has fulfilled its obligations throughout the period of the agreement and has financed early retirement pensions for 5 years before reaching the generally established retirement age. Following the entry into force of January 1st last year of Russia's Federal Labour Pension Act in the Russian Federation, Ukraine's pension agreement placed citizens who move to Ukraine in discriminatory conditions compared to citizens who move to non-SND states. With the aim of avoiding the mark. The student was offered a new agreement to guarantee the rights of citizens working in the regions of the Far North in the area of pension insurance. Yet, the proposal has not yet been supported by the Russian side. In this regard, it is suggested that a full - scale study of the matter be carried out taking into account the interests of the Ukrainian and Russian parties with a view to making a compromise decision. More effective measures need to be implemented with regard to the prevention and non-admission of illegal immigration, including the proper arrangement of the State border between Ukraine and Russia and the conclusion of an agreement on the return of illegal migrants, i.e. the pro-mission. [[Article 32 of the Treaty]] The solution is being done through the negotiation process of a bilateral agreement on the reception and transfer of persons in the territories of both countries illegally. Dear National Deputies! Through the progressive implementation of the provisions of the Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership Agreement, Ukraine and Russia have reached sufficient maturity to define specific parameters for the strategic partnership set out in Article 2. Including for a distant perspective. The urgent need to specify this principle is primarily due to the fact that the treaty was being prepared for signing and put into place in the mid-1990s, for objective reasons, it was unable to take into account the increasing impact of globalization and the qualitative new risks and threats that were clearly identified in the early part of this century. However, the political and legal nature of the treaty and the universality of its inter-State mechanisms allow it to be adapted to modern international and bilateral realities by defining strategic partnership parameters. The first step in this direction was taken as part of the joint meeting of the College of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and Russia held in Kiev in May this year, which summed up the draft declaration on the strategic partnership between Ukraine and Russia. In this context, the strategic importance for future Ukrainian-Russian relations will be to further develop the provisions of the agreement on the interaction of international regional security and stability, the provision of free trade, the free movement of goods, capital and investment on the basis of economic relevance and mutual benefit, the transport of energy and the promotion of efficient and safe operation of transcontinental transport corridors. Furthermore, the strategic importance for the realization of Ukraine's Euro-Atlantic aspirations will be maximized by Article 5 of the consultative mechanism policy between Ukraine and Russia and by the exchange of information so that Euro-Atlantic integration contributes to security and stability in Europe and does not cause concern for our neighbours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u86	Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich. Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. It's a recording. Light up, please. It's suggested, as we always do on Government Day, one question is written, one question is oral. The first question, please take it from yours, and then the next question is the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u87	Yes, questions from the MP's faction "Our Ukraine." "The development of full economic cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation is hampered, above all, by the artificial barriers to bilateral trade and restrictions on export-import operations. In particular, the Russian Federation does not address the issue of the cancellation of VAT on exports to Ukraine of Russian goods, and Ukrainian goods are subject to excessively high customs tariffs. How real is the idea of free trade in the space of the Commonwealth of Independent States?" According to the Russian Federation's Tax Code for VAT Administration introduced on July 1, 2001, the principle of "in the country of destination" is not being met. The problem remains Russia’s refusal to apply the established principle in the export of natural gas, oil, and gas condensate. Its solution may be through the signing of an agreement on the principles of mutual taxation. After several rounds of negotiations by the experts of the parties, the draft of the agreement was agreed by compromise terms for the cancellation of indirect taxes. And this agreement was planned to be signed during the last session of the mixed commission in March in Moscow. But at the last minute, the Russian Federation refused to sign the agreement, motivated by the fact that it would soon be reviewed by the Russian Federation Tax Code. To date, there is no further information on Russia’s opposition, or Russia, that is, does not respond further to our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u88	Thank you. The question from Olga Hinzburg, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor. Communist faction, Hinzburg, 161 constituency. Dear Volodymyr Yuriovich, I have such a question for you, and it will probably be interesting for everyone. For a while, almost a year, our citizens could not get citizenship, which they lived for some time until about 93 years in Russia. Then the Russian Embassy stopped in connection with the adoption of laws. Then again now, as such a procedure would begin, this procedure closes in that anyone who has ever worked or been in Russia should submit this certificate to the tax office that he did not owe Russia any taxes there and so on. And this makes it very difficult to get citizenship. I've raised these questions several times, being in Russia, too. Our proposal was to make a simplified system of citizenship, to get citizenship for our Ukrainians, like Belarus, there with Kazakhstan. What's stopping us? Because I know that maybe a lot of district deputies have the same problem. These people can't get a grant or any other benefits, they can't get a job without this citizenship. And there are a lot of problems. We have to take care of them. But what is the reason? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. This is really an important problem. It is one of the most complex, let's say, in our consular work with the Russian Federation and is the subject of constant negotiations and consultations. So in order to decide, we need to make changes, both in our legislation and in Russian. That's what we know. And we are gradually working on this, including through the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council. So in order to help our citizens, we're doing it this way, during the summer period, when citizens are particularly encouraged, we're increasing the number of consular personnel, both in Moscow at the embassy and in other general consulates in Russia. Since last year, or even from the deceased, the practice of so - called consular services has been introduced. Because, of course, our Consulate Generals, as you can understand, cannot cover the entire territory, this is Rostov, this is Tumen, St. Petersburg and Russia. The point is that we want to translate part of the work that the Russian side could do to our foreign institutions. Unfortunately, today that is what we can really do. I think the results of this work will be. But, of course, globally, this issue can only be resolved by amending legislation. What we do and keep thinking about it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u91	Thank you. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u92	It's a written question. How is the return of the Russian Federation of the corresponding part of the funds of Ukrainian citizens and legal persons in the accounts of the former USSR? It's also a question of our Ukraine faction. On the initiative of the Ukrainian side, the question of. Foreign exchange, natural and legal persons living in Ukraine, investors in the USSR foreign bank, have repeatedly been disrupted by Ukraine in the course of negotiations between our nations. At the fifth meeting of the mixed commission in 1999, the Russian side confirmed its willingness to transfer the remaining funds belonging to the individuals who live in Ukraine, beginning on September 1, 1999, according to a mechanism previously agreed between the external bank of Russia and the Ukreximbank. As of today, the Russian side has completely repaid its debt to the individuals of Ukraine, the investors of the USSR’s external bank. With regard to legal persons, in October 2002, the ICC sent a memorandum on the regulation of the internal currency debt of the former USSR and legal persons of the Ukrainian resident, in which the Russian side, referring to the settlement of the ruble debt of the former USSR, reported that the issue of the repayment of debts to legal persons of Ukrainian residents should be regulated by the principles and mechanisms, the agreement on the principles of the mechanism for servicing the internal debt of the former USSR of 1992 and on the basis of the conclusion of the 1996 SND Economic Court. In order to produce our position, in January and April of this year, the U.S.M.S.A. held interministerial advice on the issue of reimbursement. With the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minustu, Minfin, Mineconomy and the National Bank. In the course of the meeting, we were able to agree on some of the options for further negotiations and positions of Ukraine that will be the subject of the next round of consultations between our countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u93	Thank you. Vitali Jakovic, the socialist party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u95	Turn on the microphone of the national MP of Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u96	Wynski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I have two questions for you. First question. How do you appreciate the fact that the announced, advertised firm Rick Ukraine in Russia and Rick Russia in Ukraine has led to the fact that the level of trade for the first time in all years of independence with Ukraine has become lower than the level of trade with the countries of the European Union? So in fact, we say one thing in words, and in fact, it's quite another. And the second question. Today, in Ukraine, 70 percent of the population supports the need for friendship with Russia in one way or another. 35 percent see it as a priority. They put it first. Please tell me, could it be so in any state that the state authorities have ignored the position of the vast majority of the population in relation to relations between the two countries? Because what the State does is absolutely the opposite of what the people think and want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. If you don't mind, I'll start with a second. I can't agree with you. Because I think I've given a number of examples in the presentation about the number of meetings at all levels between the leadership of Ukraine and Russia, about the last meeting of the joint college for the first time in the history of our inter-State relations with the colleagues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia. Oh. Strategic Partnership Declarations. So it's not about words, we're actually doing what you're talking about. And that's confirmed by the numbers you gave, 70 percent and 75 percent. With regard to the decline in trade between Ukraine and Russia, the increase in our trade with the European Union took place on its own, including at the expense of money. with Russia, but it wasn't an initiative of the Ukrainian side. That's what I called in my speech the result of introducing restrictions on Russia. So the Ukrainian side, as you probably know, in the past, at least a year and a half, hasn't imposed any serious restrictions, I mean importing cars, lamps and so on, we haven't done that. This is done on the Russian side, so it seems to me that the drop in circulation is primarily Russian wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u98	Thank you, questions from Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich, Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u99	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Vladimir Yuriovich. As has been the case in recent years, there has been an increasing number of inter-regional linkages between Ukraine and Russia in developing cooperation and partnership. This is confirmed by meetings of the leaders of the border areas of Ukraine and the Russian Federation, which took place in Kharkiv. Business Forums with regional leaders and interested business circles held in Odessa last year and May 16-18 this year. As you can see, the initiatives below are, the regions want to work together. And the question is, what does the government say about solving the problems that are being addressed at these meetings? But what support do regions get from the government to intensify their cooperation with the areas of the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. First of all, as far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, I can assure you that literally the day is not passing, that we are not being approached by virtually all areas of Ukraine, by separate cities of the districts, with the request to help with relations, or to arrange the withdrawal of delegations from our country to Russia, or vice versa. Almost every week, we agree to projects of various agreements and agreements, protocols and so on that are signed at the level of these regions. I've given one number in my statement that all such contracts are over 200, that's the last ten years. And that's why I also came up with a need that I said earlier in the presentation to create within a large commission, a mixed body of a subcommittee on issues of inter-regional and cross-border cooperation. Because we actually outnumber those relationships even those that exist at the interstate level. I know that the same assistance is provided by any other ministry, the Ukrainian authorities, if such appeals are to come. So, I think it's just that the government is doing a lot of good in getting these contacts to work out. Well, you yourself said, more faithfully, you gave examples of forums that took place in Odessa, Kharkiv. I can still remember the days of the propeller. I know that several similar forums are planned by the end of this year. This practice is justified. In the last hour, a treaty or arrangement was signed between the governors — fifteen on our side and ten on Russia’s side. She was led by Jacob's St. Petersburg and Greenwich ours from Odessa. And this board of governors will continue to work actively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u101	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u102	It's a written question. There are many of them I have already explained in the presentation. I'm just trying to find the ones that weren't. This is the Committee on Economic Policy, Governance, Property and Investment. The great deal between Ukraine and Russia emphasizes that the parties are involved in international organizations. How can the interaction between Russia and Ukraine be characterized in the process of preparing for WTO entry? What measures, though, have been taken by the Cabinet of Ukraine in particular? The practice of working consultations on the accession process of Ukraine and the Russian Federation to WTO has been initiated to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ukraine since September 2002. Recently, two rounds of consultations were held: in September 2002 in Paris and in October 2002 in Geneva. This issue is also constantly discussed during high-level group meetings to create a single economic space. You know that the Russian side is concerned about the bilateral arrangements reached by Ukraine with access to the markets of goods and services with the member states of the working group in the format of the WTO entry and the actual backlog of Russia in this component of the negotiations. In fact, the Russian side is concerned about issues where the Ukrainian side is making better progress in negotiations than the Russian side. But it is also known that we have openly stated to our Russian colleagues that Ukraine is not going to denounce those agreements that have already been signed with regard to the entry into WTO. [[Thirteen of them]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u103	Thank you. Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Juryevich, I would like to refer to the subject that you have already addressed in your report. Thus, the issue relates to the retirement of those who worked in the Far North and in areas that are equal to that category. Yet today, you are absolutely right to say that the current legislation of our Ukrainian pensioners puts our Russian counterparts in unequal conditions. Well, it's just as hard to accept how, how, how, how, how, how, today, there's a window on this. You said there's a follow-up survey coming up. Furthermore, my dear man, these questions are unfortunately asked by citizens to the absolute majority of my colleagues. So, dear power, when you're at least approaching, tell us that we're going to get a normal pension. I would like to see the Cabinet of Ministers give us something. I understand all the conditionality, but still, including the calendar perspectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u105	Thank you. In principle, this question of delaying its solution in the last period is explained by some subjective reasons, such as the change of head from the Russian side of the subcommittee dealing with the matter, Nina Matvienko. We're headed by this subcommittee, Mr. Smoker. That's why the committee didn't actually meet for six months. Although the last one was an arrangement last December to meet literally in January and resolve the issue. Ms. Matvienko promised that she already had a consolidated position of the Russian government on this matter. And, let's say, the department that puts the main sticks in the wheel is the Russian Federation Pension Fund, which doesn't have these funds. You probably know that just recently a new deputy prime minister of the Russian Federation has been appointed. I know that she's already had contact with Mr. Tobacco, they've arranged literally in June -- in early July to reconvene the commission, before that part of Ukrainian and Russian. We have our own consolidated position. As they promised, they have their own principle, which will give us a chance to start solving the issue. I think by autumn we're going to be moving in on this. I know it's a painful question. Believe me, we do this every day, not to mention the Ministry of Labour and Social Security of Ukraine and other departments, but we constantly violate this issue before the Russian side at all levels. It stands number one or two on all the thesis, on the presidential talks, on the prime ministers. I know that tomorrow will be Prime Minister Yanukovic's visit to Moscow, and this question is also in order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u106	School Andriy Vasilovich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear reporter, it's just, you know, there's always a concept in bilateral relations. Is there a concept of forming through the Russian media, through the Ukrainian media coming out of the territory? may be demonstrated in Russia’s territory, with objective analysis of the processes that are taking place in Ukraine. So let's say Ukraine accepts the Charter of Languages. In principle, after this charter, I don't think I'll ever have to defend Ukrainian language, and it won't ever happen. But what do we hear from the Russian media? All of this Russian language here is being persecuted and compared with Hagau, that is, you show what a humiliation it is for the Russian language. Why? Is there no such concept? And if it exists, why do you hide it so well and we can't appreciate it in the work between Ukraine and Russia, or in the Russian media. That's the first one. And a quick question about the Russian consulate in Lviv. Still, it also affects a certain relationship. It was the consul, the reaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that the Russian Consulate was located in the headquarters of the Western Operational Command of the Border Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u108	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'll start with a second. Yes, there is that question, there is a problem. I'm not going to tell you how many times we've dealt with this problem in front of the Russian side and how many meetings we've had with the insiders to solve it. There are two ways: the first is by force, I apologize, to expel the Russian Consulate General from that house. Of course, it will be an uncivilized path. The second question is, they're paying compensation for the repairs and reconstructions that have to be done to make this object, so to speak, normally protected, especially since the first amount was overstated. Now that we're clear, it's basically not that big of a deal anymore, and Russia agreed to pay. I myself had this conversation with the Ambassador of the Russian Federation. The only thing you need right now is the cost, because both in Russia and in Russia, you realize that the embassy of the state is not going to pay just for some number, because it's a schedule item, which is exactly where they're going to change. Whether this question is now being resolved at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think so. That the decision will be made in the near future, and compensation will be paid. As far as concept is concerned. Well, of course, we have a lot of concepts, there's a general concept of the development of relations between Ukraine and Russia, as in principle at least there are concepts in the MIP about the development of relations with any country or region, or a group of countries. In the matter of what you've violated, it's not about the absence or the presence of a concept, it's about the fact that it takes money to do it, so that our image can move and work, including the Russian press, and the American press, and any other press. These costs are, of course, either gone or not enough. So today, we're about to approve a special program called "Improvement of the image of Ukraine in general," including this program, which we lack today in Russia -- it's normal funding for the normal existence of cultural and cultural information centres in Russia, at least in Moscow. And then there's the rest. And that's when, I think, based on that active Ukrainian diaspora that exists, and you know that, we'll be able to solve these issues with their enthusiasm and with our costs. As far as Russian is concerned, if you remember, even a year or two ago this issue was constantly being raised by officials of Russia. And now, honestly, have you heard at least in the last year that one of the official factors of Russia high violate it? No, that's just the result of work. Because we finally proved to the Russians that there are no problems. And those numbers, they're fantastic as it takes to learn Russian here and so forth, they just don't exist. And normally these problems are being met by the Russians in Ukraine. Unfortunately, the need for Ukrainians is not. And they've also agreed to it lately. And the discussion on these issues has almost stopped. There's a specific job coming up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u109	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u110	Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, National Deputy Shibko. How do you feel about Russia’s position as of January 1, 2004 to enter Ukraine’s territory on foreign passports? So really, this date exists, as before, on July 1st of this year. You know we postponed it until January 1st. The last time this issue was discussed was actively enough during Mr. Ivanov’s visit and our joint college with the Russians. I can say one thing: There's an understanding that since January 1, these passports will not be introduced. But I don't think we should relax, because anyway, and going abroad on passports, it has to be. We cannot communicate with the whole world with foreign passports, but with Russia with Soviet passports. There's no such thing. But there's a problem here, because given the number of people who cross the Ukrainian-Russian border today, and also the Polish border, and so on, we need, well, the calculations maybe in the IMF are accurate, but it's about 3 to 5 million of these shorts to give to people. I'm not saying that it takes 100 bracelets or 20 bracelets to get this passport, and what we just have today, especially at the local level, is not that many passports. And now these issues are under the control of our government with either some kind of program, or, I don't know, partly to provide all of our people who want to travel abroad, just overseas passports. But I can assure you that if we don't get ready by January 1st, and maybe we'll say it directly, and we won't, we'll settle with the Russian Federation to postpone that term again. Because they too are not ready for the completion of such a regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u111	Thank you. Eugene Alexiovich Hoornik, "Our Ukraine", Ivano-Frankishte.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u112	Dear Volodymyr Yuriovich, you have cited this in reference materials from the friendship, cooperation and partnership agreement between the Ukrainian-Russian Federation. Well, it's a very good deal. I read all the articles, the beautiful articles. But the article I do not read is not being implemented on our part, frankly. About the border, about the problems not on our side, about the free trade zone not on our side, about customs tariffs not on our side, about education policy, problems not on our side either. So this is where a colleague of mine said about the sympathy of a certain part of the Ukrainian population in Russia. You can't see the mutual sympathy, but it looks like our big neighbor is just offering a bad relationship. And in view of the fact that such a problem does not arise, since this treaty is not actually being implemented, and it is in force by 2007, can it not be asked whether it should be reviewed and posed on our part so that there is no such parity of discriminatory relations with our bloc. And in view of the situation, it is not time to conclude the conversation about the lever on the vector, but to take the vector on which we are expected. Because this vector clearly has no interaction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u113	Thank you for asking. I think that today's session or, let's say, raising a question on a government day, it also confirms the relevance of your words. Of course, any interstate agreement can be done better, worse and reviewed. I don't think we should be talking about his denunciation or review today after 2007. Because I can give you a lot of articles on treaties that have been implemented, let's say signing an agreement on the state border is land. It's a process. It cannot be accomplished in a day or two or a year. Or even in ten years. That's why the deal was going on for 10 years. As we get closer to 2007, we will see what we can do next. But let's finish the other things that we're now in progress. This is the same distribution of ownership abroad, and the completion of the delimitation process of the state border, I mean Azov and the Kerchen Strait, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u114	The report and the answers to the questions have been completed. Thank you, Vladimir Yuriovich, please sit down. The report invites the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich. Please. Ten minutes, Stanislav Telisforovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, distinguished officials! The topic of Ukrainian-Russian relations is undoubtedly one of the key to Ukraine's entire relationship with the outside world. The basic political agreement, as well as the Treaty on the Black Sea, laid a solid legal foundation between the two nations and played a stabilizing role in interstate relations on the European continent. The political dialogue of the two leaders on the basis of their saturation has hardly any parallels in modern history. At the same time, despite the high intensity of the Ukrainian-Russian summits, 20 meetings in two years, it should be noted that the yield from them is far from the desired, but the most painful issues of bilateral relations are not resolved. I'll stop at some. This is the signing of the Agreement on the Delimitation of Water Spaces in the Azow and Black Seas and in the Kerchen Strait, the Free Trade Agreement, the determination of the prospects for the temporary stay of the Russian Federation's Black Sea fleet in the territory of Ukraine, the regulation of the Black Sea Fleet's operations in the event of a crisis and in the event of its military use, the determination of the order in which the arms control and military activities of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation are exercised, the return to Ukraine of a portion of the foreign property of the former Soviet Union, the return of contributions to Ukrainian citizens and others. These questions have been on the table for years, but there is little progress. A clear positive example is the agreement on the Ukrainian-Russian state border recently signed after several years of negotiations. At the same time, there has been no progress in the negotiations on the delimitation of marine space, which explains how the Russian Federation is known to leave the Azov Sea and the Kerchen Strait without dividing these waters by the State border. A final settlement is needed on the issue of the distribution of property of the former Soviet Union, in particular the issue of the transfer to Ukraine of a piece of real estate of the former Soviet Union abroad, which is article 19 of our main contract. The same applies to the settlement of the issue of succession in respect of external debt and assets of the former Soviet Union. The legal and contractual basis for Ukrainian-Russian relations is 337 documents. It's not much or much in comparison. In second place, Belarus - 138, in the third United States - 110. The question is whether such a large number of contracts are needed, I don't think so. Moreover, most of these agreements have long been out of operation since they are outdated or out of date and do not meet the requirements of time or are simply ignored. It would be wise to complete as quickly as possible a detailed inventory of the contractual and legal basis of our relations and to decisively abandon those agreements that no longer work. Russia continues to be Ukraine's main trading partner, but the trend over the past few years has shown a steady decline in its share in our nation's overall trade, while at the same time increasing the EU's share plus candidate countries. If this trend continues, Russia will soon come first among Ukraine’s trading partners. To this end, Ukraine has consistently pursued policies to ensure the entry into force of the SND Free Trade Agreement and its corresponding protocol, to remove tariff and non-tariff restrictions, etc. Ukraine's steps towards creating a single economic space with the Russian Federation, Belarus, Kazakhstan should be geared towards building trade and economic relations with these countries, especially Russia, on the ground that would correspond to the process of creating a common economic space. This would be consistent with objective trends in the dynamics of trade, both in Ukraine and in Russia, in determining priorities for external economic activity. And most of all. In this way, Ukraine can best link integration into the EU with further deepening of Ukrainian-Russian cooperation, ensuring that national interests are realized, both in one direction and in another. This concerns both trade and economic relations and issues related to the adaptation of Ukrainian national legislation. While welcoming the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement with the Russian Federation on 21 June 2002 on the granting of a state loan to finance the construction of nuclear power plants in Ukraine, we are also forced to conclude that no agreement has been reached today between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on cooperation in eliminating the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear accident. With all the importance of the economy, we must not underestimate the humanitarian dimension of our cooperation. It's the souls and fate of the people. Unfortunately, the important issues in the socio-cultural sphere, which in the context of the implementation of the great treaty, should be governed by individual agreements, are still not being resolved. These questions are the most painful, and the solution will depend on people’s attitude toward the sincerity of our statements. So far no progress has been made in guaranteeing the social, labour and pension rights of Ukrainian citizens working in Russian Federation enterprises, including in the regions of the Far North. This is in line with article 27 of the Treaty. The solution to this complex is restrained by the slow development of the relevant treaty base and we will be open, not constructive, Russian side position. To date, for example, the issue of pension payments has not been settled for Ukrainian citizens who have worked in and out of the Far North. An extremely important issue is the implementation of the situation regarding the prevention and non-admission of illegal migration, including the proper establishment of the common state border and the conclusion of an agreement on the return of illegal migrants. [[Article 32 of the Treaty]] An important issue in the humanitarian field remains the return to Ukraine of cultural values that were exported to the territory of the Russian Federation during the existence of the Soviet Union. It is known that the Year of Ukraine in Russia was proclaimed in 2002, but unfortunately its results were not as strong as expected. The main conclusion may be that the preparation of a similar arrangement should begin in advance. Taking into account that additional funding should be provided for its implementation at the appropriate level, which provides for the inclusion of the relevant articles in the State budget. Otherwise, the cost of public institutions is certainly not enough for it to be fully carried out. I'd like to break another important problem. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the country's research centres, is doing a great deal of work on conceptualizing the prospects for building Ukrainian-Russian relations, with a view to putting this strategically important foreign policy of our country on a systemic basis. I think it would be useful for us to do this work like the strategy and integration programmes of Ukraine into the European Union. So this would be a great material that would make it possible for everyone to work on this development who cares about relationships. Last year, 2002 marked a significant activation of our interparliamentary cooperation. An interparliamentary group with the Russian Federation was created and is in operation. On March 24, 2003, the second meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission took place in Moscow. It has been noted that more than 100 legislative acts are now in force against existing realities and must be repealed or reviewed by executive authorities. So the work in this direction is definitely enough for us. One country-end political scientist recently noted that the main problem with Ukrainian-Russian relations is that half of our citizens love Russia and half of our citizens don't; and from this, we have to get into a relationship for the future. I won't let him. We need a national consensus on relations with Russia very much, just as we have reached consensus on Ukraine's European choice, the priority of our integration into Europe. I hope that this Government Day will be an important contribution to the formation of such a consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u116	Thank you, Stanislav Tellisforovich. We're not going to have to ask questions as usual. We're moving on to the discussion. The first is a representative of the Communist faction, the Puzakov People's Deputy, please prepare to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u117	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. In my statement, I would like to recall the content of one of the many true documents that shed light on the U.S. scheme that destroyed the Soviet Union and the economy of the separated republics. This document refers directly to Ukraine and its role in the destruction of the USSR. This is a fragment of one of the great knowledge manipulation programmes that has been designed for many decades. This is a memorandum from the United States National Security Council dated 18 August 1948, which reads literally. The US target for Russia is constant and does not depend on whether they are in a state of war or not. Unreserved goals, demonization of communist ideology and the imposition of American ideology as a universal vision. The transition to the area of American influence, particularly the Baltic Republics and Ukraine. Former Soviet republics should never be able in the future to become economically independent. For this purpose, separatist movements in the USSR should be promoted and initiated as the best means of promoting and initiating separatist movements in the USSR. It is not our job to reflect on the consequences that such a concept can have within each country. This plan was implemented by a hundred per cent, and in Ukraine there were executioners in the face of Kravczuk and Kuchma. The result for a person who has lost contact with Russia has been the destruction of industry and agriculture, and the population has been taken to the brink of poverty. It has become 90 per cent of poverty and is dying at a rate of 400,000 people per year. The army and defence capacity of the country have been destroyed. By proclaiming independence, Ukraine virtually lost it by becoming fully dependent on the United States. That is why, having a treaty of friendship, cooperation and partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on 31 May 1997, Ukraine did not realize its potential, and Ukraine's political and economic recommendations were strictly implemented and continued to implement. What's the result? Upon being separated from Russia, Ukraine was granted only the status of its neighbour. But the leadership of the country at all the meetings of the leaders of the CIS countries has a strange policy. The words indicate integration, strengthening of brotherly ties, common roots, etc. But once they get home, they turn 180 degrees. We must finally understand that the continuation of such a hypocritical policy is fatal for Ukraine and its people. And in this situation, we must throw away all the little things that separate us -- stop us, the Ukrainians and the Russians, find fault with each other, in one word -- reject all unnecessary contradictions. Today we need to save the country! I mean Ukraine and Russia, not capitalist and not socialist, but to save a free and independent one. Everyone understands that salvation can only be in the unity of the true patriots of Ukraine and Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u118	Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag, People's Choice. Prepare Borzih, the Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! Lugansk, Nadrag, People's Choice. I think it's because three minutes in a row and there's no point in saying things in general, so with your permission, I'm going to start talking about the problems that I think we need to address today when we talk about Russian-Ukrainian relations. Okay, first. I think that I am deeply convinced that the economic component is an integral part. Humanitarian -- it's not too much. But the primary is the economy -- the economy of the movement of goods, the economy of the labour force -- and these are the obstacles that exist today, I don't think they benefit either Russia or Ukraine. That's why I think. What needs to be done: the first is to eliminate differences in customs, i.e. tariff and non-tariff regulations, which lead to an unjustified increase in the prices of goods and labour services, to prevent their free movement, to induce the spread of illegal forms in mutual trade, i.e. simply to induce smuggling. The next problem is the high cost of selected products, including Russian energy carriers, when exported to Ukraine. And the last. The orientation of a significant part of both States'market for third-country products. And there's one problem: both in Russia and we can hear in Ukraine that we need to save a local producer, we need to help him. Unfortunately, though, in Russian-Ukrainian relations, the facts are slightly different: as soon as barriers are put in place to prevent the neighbor's goods from entering, there is a third party. And this third party covers both Ukrainian pipes in Russia and Russian goods in Ukraine. Next. Deeply convinced that on a bilateral basis, an inter-State agreement on the crossing of the State border by Ukrainian and Russian citizens living in border areas should be considered and signed as soon as possible. It's a humanitarian sphere. But I want to say that the Lugansk region has 820 kilometres with Russia and no one has a secret, that by 1991 the border was sufficiently conditional. People live -- relatives -- on both sides of the border. Regrettably, very often, even by going to relatives, a person crosses the border as if he were going to travel to a permanent place of residence. There is also a need to continue work on more pragmatic approaches to monitoring agreements concluded, and to establish interregional cooperation working groups within regional government administrations. International relations should be dropped to the interregional level. A working group should be set up to prepare proposals to harmonise legislative and other instruments aimed at regulating economic ties, including on the border. It is necessary for both sides to ensure that the border, customs, migration and other controls on citizens living in border areas are somewhat different. And the last. I would like to say that customs legislation must be harmonized at the intergovernmental level of Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. If Ukraine and Russia interacted more bilaterally, the number of cooperating regions, not only inter-State relations, would be given a chance and increased, and thus would be easier and easier for both the economy and the people living in our States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u120	Alexander Ivanovich Borzih. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u121	Borzih, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, members of the government, are invited! We, members of the faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, have come from what Russia has been and remains the main strategic trading partner for our country. Yet, after the formation of two sovereign states in the external economic activity of the agro-industry complex, you have become aware of the problems. Judge for yourself. In the early 1990 ’ s, Ukraine exported about 2 million tons of sugar to Russia, 300,000 tons of oil, more than 2 million tons of milk, about 300,000 tons of meat and meat products. Russia, on the other hand, provided the agricultural sector of Ukraine with agricultural technology, automobiles, and equipment for processing enterprises. Today, the situation is quite different. Annually, the volume of agricultural production is declining, and there is a artificial barrier that does not create favourable economic conditions to improve the work in this direction in two countries. The Russian side has taken a hard stand in recent years regarding imports from Ukraine of APC products. For example, according to such an important strategic product for Ukraine, such as sugar, the Russian side has imposed restrictions on its imports from Ukraine since 1996. For other reasons, this has led to the loss of the external market for Ukrainian sugar and, in general, to the difficult economic situation of the whole sector. In due time, the Russian side initiated the removal of alcohol from the free - trade regime as well as cigarettes. Customs duties on imports from Ukraine of caramels, alcoholic beverages, were greatly increased. Ukrainian products are subject to higher tariffs several times against Russian products when they are transported by rail across Russia. At the same time, Ukraine has the same tariffs on both Ukrainian and Russian goods. For four years, Ukraine has not been able to resolve this issue. Can you call that a normal trade-economic relationship? It is estimated that more than $500 million per year are lost by Ukrainian producers in applying trade restrictions on agricultural products. Life itself is a major force for two countries to work together to solve the problems noted. But while the meeting is virtually beyond conversation, the meeting is not going on, and the agreed agreement in the APC part is very unsatisfactory. In our view, first of all, we need to review the issue of VAT accounting for exporters, which is a very important situation. There is an urgent need to remove technical barriers, accelerate the development of interstate standards. We need to activate the work on improving customs, creating the modern infrastructure of the common agricultural market. Members of our faction are convinced that this is only for the benefit of two countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u122	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs, members of the government and the suffering Ukrainian people. I am certainly grateful for the professional report and for the State Secretary Elchenko and the head of the Staszewski Committee. I wanted to wish they could continue to develop and control this issue. But if we're going to analyze the state of implementation of the treaty, I'm very sorry that very few deputies in the room today are very sorry that the government is represented by only one vice-premier, I'm very sorry that the empty bed for diplomatic guests, because today it's one of the basic issues in the state's development. I would like to draw your attention to the very text of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, where it was clearly defined in article 13, that the parties to the High Contracts refrain from actions that may cause economic harm to one another. And here's a speech by my colleagues that shows that this damage is all the time due to the development of low-cost economic co-operation, first of all those artificial barriers to bilateral trade and restrictions on export-import operations that have already been discussed. Moreover, I want to insist on such serious very serious moments as there is to be excluded from the politics of the dictatorship of the Russian Federation. I'm talking about Ukraine's acceptance of the conditions of entry into the WTO dictated by the Russian Federation. Recently, Belarus and Kazakhstan joined the Russian Federation in this dictatorship. Thus, this trinity continues to dictate its terms and threatens 13 bilateral protocols on access to the markets of goods and services that have already been signed by Ukraine and that require Ukraine to refuse it today. I urge our government not to accept this for any reason. This is the first time. It's different. I'm drawing your attention to the failure of the Black Sea Fleet split agreements. Not a secret that Ukraine did not provide Russian fleets with Ukrainian objects, but Russia, by armed capture and restraint, gave Ukraine secondary and extravagant. I want to draw your attention to what's going on today. So far there is no lease provided for in article 15, paragraph 14, of the Constitution, and article 2, part two, of the Agreement on Recalculation for no object, no square metre of Ukrainian territory in Crimea. So far, no inventory has been made of land objects in and how they are used in leases to the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation has one and a half times as many objects and plots as it has provided for. Only for land leases in administrative borders is Sevastopol estimated by the Sevastopol Local Administration of the Russian Federation to pay Ukraine $600-700 million a year, and that would go to the problems of the residents living there. I'll give you an experience that the Russian Federation pays Kazakhstan 3.5 billion dollars a year. [[I'm done.]] And what I'm saying is that the government of Ukraine is doing everything to make it look like Ukrainian positions in Sevastopol. That's what's selling the Kerch tankers now, Makiyevka. The sales are now being prepared by the Ukrainian rocket cruiser, and the composition of the Ukrainian Navy song and dance is being developed, which was actually a fleet card, and it's a reduction in military parts, and it's different. I'm finishing up, half a minute, it just hurts to see what's going on today, dear friends. I propose the result.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u124	Turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatolyovich, we must respect everyone. Ten seconds, turn it on and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u125	As a result of these issues and the violations that have been said and are today, I propose to create a special committee of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u126	I see. Thank you. Vladimir Anatoliyovich Demjohin. Get ready, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u127	Dear People's Deputies! Dearly-respected are those who are present. As far as the status of implementation of the treaty is concerned, I would not call it satisfactory. And from a specific point of view, I think one of the most important things is innovation and investment, and I wanted to focus on it. Cooperation with Russia in the innovation field is potentially the best and most convenient for us. By comparison, the innovation gap between Ukraine and Russia is not as great as that of other countries. Given the similarity between our two countries' baselines and the historical interrelationship, the interdependence in resource, technological terms, some of the facts of Russia's innovative advance should not lead us to the problems we usually face. Whether by adapting experience in national circumstances, or whether it is a number of other issues. In the Russian Federation, if we look today, we should potentially have used all the experience that exists today in Russia, Belarus, if we are on time today. We're talking about Russia, let's see. Today, the establishment of a national innovation structure is actively continuing in Russia. I ask you to note, I note that we have today announced an innovative investment approach in the economy, a model. What's going on? Work has been established in Russia and continues to develop small innovation structures such as innovation and technology centres. In these organizational structures, the development of science and technology is ready to be commercialized and commercialized. Innovation and technology centres are now being scaled up, and they have become innovation and industrial complexes. A venture innovation fund has been set up. We have these forms of MMM, sorry about the jargon, all venerable, so to speak, attempts. We do not yet have that kind of experience, although we have every reason to say so. We only have negative examples so far. If we take, for example, developments that have not been made in the CIS, cryosurgery is being conducted today, this technology has been innovative and we are already negotiating that Ukraine will have to buy these modern developments. In terms of investment, we have at least longer investment from Russia today than from Ukraine. But most importantly, statistics show that all direct mutual investment is in the form of joint ventures. The foundations are agreed upon with the legislative framework, for example, for the same financial and industrial groups, and there are no serious movements here on the part of both our Government and the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u128	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u129	The general conclusions could include the need to develop effective legal instruments, and this would probably be the most important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u130	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, a faction of Communists, has the word to prepare for Shufritch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u131	Dear colleagues. For the analysis of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation, it is appropriate, first of all, to give an answer and a sincere one, to the main question whether the objectives and objectives of the treaty are being achieved. If so, to what extent and how, and especially to what extent, they meet the requirements of more than 54 percent of Ukrainian citizens who consider their relationship with Russia to be a priority in Ukraine's foreign policy. We need to determine that the real goal of the treaty is to strengthen friendship, a new quality in relations with Russia, unfortunately, is not being achieved. Some new quality is, but there is no friendship. Friendship with Russia, or the integration trend in the exercise of Ukrainian power, is levelled by forced economic cooperation. So in the practical plane of our relationship, we need, first of all, to increase the very integration component of this agreement right now. Secondly, it points out that the specific and fruitful results of the Ukrainian-Russian relationship under this treaty have been revealed in articles where the interests of oligarchs have determined the political will of the leaders of the country, especially Ukraine. It's gas and oil supply, military and aviation corporations, cooperation in space and pipe production, all of these are political examples, in parentheses or in paws, the will of the leaders of the state, under the pressure of criminal capital and terrible corruption. This has already led to the practical capture of strategically important businesses in Ukraine and the destruction of the country’s economic independence. Third. There are hundreds of bilateral Ukrainian documents, as well as acquisitions within the SND, they just need to start realizing that they will definitely produce positive results. So where is the sequence and strategy that should be for a strategic partner that feeds us with energy? And here again is the problem that all of these misunderstandings arise because there is no real political will in the leadership of the state. Why the Ukrainian authorities ignore the possibility of joint Ukrainian-Russian integration into Europe, talk about a free trade zone with Russia, and in private, they have ambitious, although not very far off from the WTO. It states at the highest level the creation of a single economic space and blocks the idea by formally creating a common group and holding several meetings. In this way, Ukraine is losing, not the potential, but the existing Russian markets, which are taking place in a significant fall in Ukraine’s exports to Russia last year. And in Russia's gradual reorientation to the markets of a distant country. And this is, first of all, thousands of unemployed people in Ukraine. There are such issues as the prospect of a treaty being implemented, as is the case with article 4, that the parties are taking steps to contribute to the creation and strengthening of a collective security system in Europe, as well as to the strengthening of the UN's peacekeeping role. Why did Ukraine not respond favorably to the establishment of a collective security agreement with the Russian initiative? Why did Ukraine act as a pro - American player in the situation around Iraq, rather than in line with the articles of this treaty, as pro - Russian? And we have a lot of questions like this. Once again, we Communists, speaking in the Supreme Council, are primarily in favour of strengthening relations, deeper economic integration, the use of the scientific and technological potential of two countries to develop our countries, not the destruction of economic and political independence. So we think that the discussion of this issue is important, but the main thing is to make the right conclusions, and today we need the government to immediately address specific issues of improving relations with Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u132	Thank you. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich, faction of SDPU. Prepare Verni Dubov, European Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u133	Thank you, Your Honor Alexander Alexiovich. Dear government officials, colleagues! Time limits do not allow all aspects of treaty implementation to be fully addressed, so I think it is appropriate to focus on economic issues. Four years after the treaty became effective, unfortunately, there was no reason to talk about its effective implementation or simply about the mutually beneficial deepening of bilateral relations in the field of economics. On the contrary, the trade between our countries is declining. The potential for co-operation in the science and technology field has largely remained at the level of declarations. The principles of mutual investment protection have also, unfortunately, remained on paper. A little specifics. Article 14 of the Treaty provides that the parties will provide favourable conditions for direct trade and other economic relations and cooperation. How do we do that? From year to year, the volume of traffic between our countries is decreasing. In 2002 alone, by the way, Ukraine and Russia, the trade between our countries declined by 69 million. This amounted to $9.4 billion. There was a huge imbalance between imports and exports. Exports amounted to 3.2 billion, decreased by more than 13 percent and imports with Russia 6.2 billion It will be true that this trend is improving in the current year and we hope for positive sums throughout the year. The main reasons for the slowdown are the transition of Russia and Ukraine from 1 July 2001 to VAT at border crossings, the development of its own production in Ukraine and Russia of goods previously imported from a neighbouring country. The third reason. The problem of VAT return to exporters that prevents companies from developing exports has not yet been solved. Last year’s so - called trade war has further deepened these negative trends. Article 15 of the Treaty provides: "The parties shall provide favourable economic and financial, legal conditions for entrepreneurial and other business activities and organizations of the other party, including incentives and mutual protection of investments. The parties will encourage various forms of cooperation and direct connections between the owners of the two countries, regardless of the form of ownership. What we have today. The investment process is primarily based on the creation of appropriate financial institutions in Ukraine for future investment, primarily banks. The policy of former leadership was directed in the opposite direction. Since the adoption of the treaty, the NBA has done everything to prevent the opening of Russian banks and their branches in Ukraine. As a result, according to official statistics, Ukraine holds only 10th place from Russian investment abroad. This is less than two percent compared to Belarus, for example, 31 percent. Over the years, Russia’s investments amounted to $325 million. This is, unfortunately, only 7 percent of the total foreign investment in Ukraine. I would like to draw the following conclusions. The friendship, cooperation and partnership agreement between Ukraine and the Russian Federation is being implemented, we must admit it, not enough. The development of contractual relations through bilateral cooperation agreements in separate sectors of the economy of Ukraine and Russia is taking place too slowly. At a low level, there is currently coordination of the activities of ministries and other central executive bodies of Ukraine and Russia. This was demonstrated by a series of mutual efforts last year to limit trade between Ukraine and Russia, which even received the name of trade war. Suggestions, first of all, we believe that it is necessary to accelerate the upsurge of political action between our countries at the highest level to develop economic relations and their sectoral level, and certainly we, as the Supreme Council and our government, have to provide a permanent dialogue between countries that are certainly destined to work together and act together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u134	The word is Ivan Vasilovich Vernidubov, "European Choice". To prepare Joseph for Winski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u135	Ivan Vernidubov, Sevastopol, European Choice. The Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Russian Federation has become a major event for Sevastopol. It marked the end of Sevastopol's third defence. The voices, the cries of individual Russian politicians, that Sevastopol had been, was, would be, and would be, Russian. We should pay tribute to the leadership of the Russian Federation for their firm adherence to the obligations contained in the article to respect the territorial integrity of each other and not to the inviolability of borders. In the years of the greatest tension between politicians, the military and the city's inhabitants in terms of belonging to Sevastopol, history is now in the past. Individuals in Kiev are talking about what was actually going on. There was nothing. As an eyewitness and an active participant in those events, the situation could have become a hotspot at any time. It is known that politicians have won in all major cases, but that Sevastopol has not become Karabakh, which has not shed the blood of the brotherly peoples, the role of the city's law enforcement authorities, primarily the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, General Belobeard Vivat Alexandrovic, and the head of the General Kunzevsky Vladimir Fedosovic's SBU. I believe that the State should know and appreciate its defenders. Sevastopol is now a region conducive to the political stability of inter-State relations with the Russian Federation. By the way, June 14th, the city celebrates 220 years of its foundation on weekends. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the inhabitants of the city, all of whom are not indifferent to the fate of this city with this holiday. At present, however, there are a number of problematic issues at the governmental level in relations with the Black Sea Fleet. First. Determination of the calculation and reimbursement of local taxes and charges in the city budget. Second. Resolve the methodology for the definition of financing for the participation of the Russian side in the social and economic development of the city. Third. Inventory of real estate and plots transferred to the lease of the Russian Federation for the purposes of the Black Sea fleet. Fourth. Transfer of the Black Sea fleets of the Russian Federation to the urban utility property of social facilities, rehabilitation of the emergency housing fund. Fifth. Payment of housing and utilities by members of the Black Sea Navy. Sixth. Streamlining decisions on the management of public property, including marine waters, coastal infrastructure. Seven. The introduction of rules for the navigation of ships and vessels in and approaches to Sevastopol bays and barges. In order to address these issues, a decision should be taken. A number of issues would be removed by the adoption of the law on the status of the city of Sevastopol, which was prepared by the deputies from Sevastopol. I call on the Sectoral Committee, as well as all members of the Supreme Council, to vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u136	The word is from the Socialist Party, Joseph of Winsky, to be prepared by the People's Rule Group of Gabrieluk. We've got 10 minutes to get back to work. Three groups we need to hear more.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u137	While preparing for Government Day, we in the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine have carefully examined the Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership Agreements between Ukraine and Russia and the documents that come out of it. And what I'd like to say is that we're so appreciated that the work that we're doing on this contract is unsatisfactory, and it's basically limited to general declarations. If there is something else to be said about piracy and divorce, it is obvious that it is impossible to talk about friendship today. In Ukraine’s relationship with Russia, we regret to note that hawks are still conquering, both on the Ukrainian side and on the Russian side to the same extent. What problems between Ukraine and Russia today are most important in our view. First. Lots of words, lots of pierres, lots of imitations and very little real black work on both sides, by the way. I'd say that Ukraine and Russia are not friends, they're not cooperating, they're playing friendships and ambitions right now. And this is to be seen as data and to look for a way out of this situation. The other one. Regrettably, the problem between Ukraine and Russia has been the subject of such witchcraft and racketeering. It is believed that if you spend the year of Ukraine in Russia or the year of Russia in Ukraine and two presidents kissed twice a year and showed it on TV, it seemed to improve the relationship between Ukraine and Russia. And as a fact, I've already called it today in my question, that during the year of Ukraine in Russia, the level of trade between our countries has dropped dramatically, and for the first time in the history of the new Ukraine it's become less than with the countries of the European Union, it just confirms what I said. And this should lead to serious conclusions. I think that these should be the conclusions of the government, above all, which should implement practically the positions set out in this agreement. Let's ask ourselves, "How can it be that 70 percent of the population in one form or another, as a priority, see 35 percent of the voters in Ukraine, and the authorities can practically ignore the opinion of the majority of the voters in Ukraine?" The problem of interstate relations, in my opinion, is first and foremost a political problem. And it becomes clear that existing authorities are unable to implement normal, friendly relations between Ukraine and Russia. And we're clearly saying that today's system of power does not provide this, and we need to change the system of power, and only then will we have the opportunity to develop a normal relationship with Russia. I want to give you an example. When our soldiers were sent to Iraq, the White Special Council met with the President when they gathered most of the questions and decided all the questions for two hours, and it became clear to everyone how the issues needed to be resolved. And remember whether in Ukraine's history, the President has gathered on issues of Ukrainian-Russian relations that I think have much more perspectives and are much more responsible, gathered the majority and the government and said that let's go along with you to solve this problem. I think that the fact is that there's a lot of intrigue in real politics in Ukraine, and in the real situation, it's not the development of friendship, it's just the mechanism of the divorce process. And our countries are moving further and further away from each other. This is unacceptable, and our faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine believes that these relations need to be regulated and brought back to the level of friendship and cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u138	Gavriluk Vasil Vasilovich, People's Rule Group. Get ready, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u139	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! First of all, let me congratulate the Russian people on this high rostrum with their upcoming national holiday - Russia Day. Secondly, to analyse the relationship between our countries in the context of the treaty between Ukraine and Russia, as an example of a particular region. Of course, the implementation of the provisions of the treaty depends largely on the human factor, the political will and the managerial energy of those who translate the ideas of economic cooperation into action. For example, a certain and noticeable breakthrough in the work of the largest NHRI, located in my constituency - the town of Kremenchuge Poltavské region - began in mid-2001 when the company had effective managers, including the Russian, specific Tatar side. An agreement was reached to increase the supply and processing of oil in 2001, 2.7 million tons, 5.4 million tons in 2002 and 2.7 million tons in 5 months this year. I believe it is important to note that this has been achieved in many ways because it is since mid-2001 that a successful joint Ukrainian-Russian management has been established both at the senior management level and at the other management levels of the enterprise. With Russian, more specific Tatar, the parties to today's example of successful cooperation and quality financial management are showing the first Vice-President of the Government of UkrtatTnafty, Fedotov Vladimir Aleksandrovic. As evidenced by the director of the Cremenchug Automotive Plant Chernys Nikolai, the practice of such successful cooperation has been established by the company with Russian auto-building leaders Gaz and Uaz, whose vehicles are assembled in a factory and are vital to Ukraine's agriculture. For good reason, this Kremenchug autogamist visited the Russian Ambassador to Ukraine Victor Chernomyrdin. The Kremenchug road vehicle plant, which has been produced by the director of Danieleko, whose production enables the entry into markets not only by the CIS but also by other countries around the world, is being prepared with extensive cooperation with the Russian side. There is a huge potential for economic linkages between our countries with the Wagon Director of Pridosko, the Wheel Director of Ligotkin, and the Kremenchug factories. It cannot be said that it is important to establish closer cooperation between Ukraine and Russia, because for a city like Kremenchug, specifically in Ukraine, much depends on the volume of production, on the well-being of our people in a particular city. The development of economic relations that are very close to the interests of our citizens cannot help but cause public resonance, which provides broad support to the population, to strengthen all possible links between our States. This is also supported by the general commitment of our leaders to working closely together, including to the full strengthening of local self-government. Such democratization will enable our countries to cooperate at the regional level, at the public level, for example, our House-Kremenchug association, which I have the honour to lead, has already established cooperation with the Russians, including the State Duma Professional Committee. And it's very important that there's nothing stronger than human relationships. The implementation of the treaty establishes a solid economic base under our inter-State, social, spiritual and cultural relations. Let us do our utmost to strengthen these relations fully among our brotherly peoples! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u140	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko and we risk it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u141	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues. With respect to the need for cooperation with the Russian Federation as one of our main partners, I would like to stop at a few points that I think are indicative. You all remember that as early as December 4, 1991, we signed the Succession Treaty, which we still call the Assets and Liabilities Agreement. With reference to official information from the government, which has, in fact, been published at parliamentary hearings since 2000, I would like to remind you that 16.37 percent is Ukraine's share in assets and liabilities. In terms of assets, for Ukraine it's $12.1 billion. US$ 7.8 billion; US$ 7.8 billion rubles at that time; 42.1 tons of gold from the common gold stock. Real estate at the then rate and at the then balance sheet value is 0.6 billion. rubles, not counting the diamond fund, not counting the then income from arms exports and so forth. These assets have been discussed for more than ten years. And the Russian Federation is not yet solving this issue. Nor is it quick to discuss the cultural values that have been removed from Ukraine and which are our Ukrainian national acquisitions. Again, by referring to the same parliamentary hearings since 2000, I will remind everyone here, including those in the government's bed, that these are over 700 names on 400 pages of typewriters just a list of cultural values that are stored in Russia and not going back to Ukraine. As far as I know, that's not what this is about. I'm also going to remind you of the 2,000 originals of our films and televisions that are stored in the archive under Moscow, which are also our national acquisitions, and they're not coming back. Despite all of this, the Supreme Council ratified a friendship, cooperation and partnership agreement with the Russian Federation signed on May 31, 97, and we ratified it in February 98. But that doesn't mean that these questions are off. This does not mean that the government must forever forget that there is a problem of returning savings to Ukrainian citizens who were expelled from the state on December 1, 91st, on behalf of federal savings. That doesn't mean we have to break up our fraternal relationship with the Russian Federation. But I think we need to make some new qualitative breakthrough in our relationship. "Our Ukraine" comes from a position that Russia is not our enemy, it's our partner. But Russia has to understand that Ukraine is the same equal partner for Moscow as Germany, France, the United States and so on. So anyway, without going against the interests of the Russian Federation, we have to take care of everything about our national interests, the interests of the Ukrainian consumer and the Ukrainian producer. In this regard, we have proposed today the holding of parliamentary hearings of "Ukraine-Russia". But which, by the insistence of the Communists and most of them, did not happen. We leave our offer in force and we urge Ukrainian and Russian politicians to open, honest and frank dialogue on those painful points that are prominent in Ukrainian-Russian relations right now. Otherwise, we will not build a qualitatively new relationship that will be based, not on Ukraine's subordination to Russia, but on an equality relationship that will provide a long-term perspective for our equal and mutually beneficial partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u142	Thank you. Olga Petrovna from the premises, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u143	Honorable National MPs, Honourable Chief, 161 constituency, faction of Communists. I asked for words to express my opinion on this painful subject that we are discussing today. First of all, I have a few questions that I don't understand. If we're having such a day of government today, whether we should have representatives of the Russian Federation or the embassy here, or whether it's from the Russian Parliament or maybe it's going to be other representatives who could listen to what we're talking about, whether we're right or wrong. I am particularly concerned about the position of our government, the President, and perhaps even the Supreme Council in why it is always necessary to please a political power. But these same questions are resolved to make our country stronger, to make our people understand, and for that they will respect us, including the President, if there is a position or no position. Why do I say that? My Suma area, it's borderline and she and Russia are cooperating, regardless of whether we're enacting laws here or not. Because oligarchs work, business managers work, businessmen work, they work without us. Whether we have signed that agreement or not, the work goes beyond us, beyond the Supreme Council, apart from the government, everything is resolved. And there's a lot of interest in working with Russia. And when the four presidents of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine announced the only economic space. That was the hope. Here, look, in the end, we'll do something together. I'm looking at the report they gave us today. And I'm very happy about that and I'm curious that if we had this agreement implemented, and unfortunately, today, the only committee in Ukraine probably didn't make any proposals. Working on this committee between Russia and Ukraine, I just know that, and Kazakhstan made its proposals. Belarus submitted its proposals, the popes here, and Russia submitted. Why does Ukraine’s signature of this claim fail? I'm reading, I'm very sorry, one minute please. The Kharkiv car repair plant, which works today to make passenger cars along with Russia, makes a lot of profits. I have a car repair plant in Konotapi that's dying. I'm slamming this door in the Cabinet of Ministers, and there's nothing I can do. That's my question. If today some parties claim that indeed, saving Russia has taken away, someone may say whether they have taken it or not. Why do we bother people? If she took it, someone should say it officially. And if we are tired of our heads, and we are guilty, Ukraine, then we need to know about it, it hurts people. It's about citizenship, which is very important today. It is we who undermine our authority and continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-06-10-m0.u144	We have concluded our discussion of an extremely important issue. Turning to government representatives would like very briefly not to summarize, but only to refer to the two highlighted issues that have been included in almost everyone's speeches. This is the first question -- the dissatisfaction with the implementation of the treaty and the treaty -- in fact, almost all the national MPs paid attention to this situation. And secondly, dear colleagues, we simply need to work very seriously on issues that affect the interests of our people. The first is passports, the second is illegal labour migration. There are still a number of issues that are certainly economic, regional cooperation. But our discussion today has shown that there are far more outstanding issues than the issues in which we have made great progress. I thank you once again for the attention of all who have taken part in our discussion today. Thank you, officials. We're going to meet 17 numbers in the next plenary. Thank you.
