ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:58]] Registered -426 A total of 426 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on March 12th, in the year 83, our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine, passed second, third and fourth vocation, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, Jaroslav Josephovna Stecko. Please honor her memory with a moment of silence. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, on March 11, this year, the Central Election Commission recognized the election and registered Larina Sergio Mikolaiovich and Stanislavovich with the Ukrainian National Deputies in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the election bloc of political parties "For Ukraine alone!".. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Larin Sergey Mikolayovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u2	I pledge allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to uphold all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of Ukraine’s homeland and welfare, to uphold Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, and to carry out my duties in the interests of all its fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u3	The National Deputy of Ukraine Stanický Hennady Stanislavovich is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u4	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I, Stanicki Hennaday Stanislavovich, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to take care of the country’s homeland and the welfare of the Ukrainian people, to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties for the benefit of all the countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleagues into office. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich into the "Region of Ukraine" faction. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Gorbal Vasil Mikhailovich and Chikal Adam Vasilovich. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Tuesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. Members of factions and groups, please submit your statement. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions that have come. Requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies Leuk Lukyanenka to the President of Ukraine for the unsatisfying status of the preparation of the air force for the Ukrainian Armed Forces in connection with the restructuring of the Kharkiv Institute of Air Force Kožeduba. We vote for support. [[10:08:57]] For 168 Decision taken, we vote for direction. [[10:09:19]] For-161 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the President of Ukraine on the right of appointment as head of the district government administration of the Bahmati district of Vitali Kuharenko, who is involved in a road accident with a fatal outcome. We vote in favour of the request. [[10:09:54]] For-152. Decision taken. About the route. [[10:10:13]] For 133 The decision is not taken. Petra Cibenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with his dissatisfaction with the request for the allocation of land to members of the Novopokrov High School of the Dnipropetrov region. Vote. [[10:10:44]] For-151 Decision taken. Gregory Bondarenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of separate municipal accounts. [[10:11:11]] For-125 Decision taken. Yuri Kostenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the operation of the mountain intercity trolleybus route Simferopol Yalta and the activities of the state-owned company Krimtroleibus. Vote. [[10:11:41]] For-149 Decision taken. Vladimir Matvieva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recognition of the city of Mikolayev as a zone of natural disaster. [[10:12:06]] For 178. Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the Museum of Commissioner of the Suman Partisan Association of Semin Vasilovich Rudnev in his homeland. Vote. [[10:12:32]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Boris Bespalogo to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on sources of funding for the public discussion of the draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine introduced by the President of Ukraine. [[10:13:01]] For-154 Decision taken. Volommira Matvieva to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the state debt to the state-owned enterprise "Study Building Plant 61 Communaries" for the construction of a rocket cruiser "Ukraine". [[10:13:29]] For 158. Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the conduct of a national expert on the working conditions of the Shepetov plant of cultivators who worked in harmful conditions until 1990. [[10:14:01]] For-103 Decision taken. Mikoli Pesocki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of the Lugani National Teachers' Institute of Education, Taras Shevchenk. [[10:14:27]] For-125 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies of Poland, Karmazin and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Heads of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education and on the fight against organized crime with regard to the anticipated change in the leadership of the National Educatorial University of Dragomanova. [[10:15:05]] For 1052 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of students affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[10:15:29]] For-146 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for food products for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[10:15:55]] For 175 Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the basis of the Russian oil transit pipeline "Brody-Odessa" in the context of the planned bilateral agreement on the transit of Russian oil, which makes it impossible to use other oil sources in Ukraine. [[10:16:30.]] For 128 Decision taken. Jurya Solomatina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction of the response of the Kiev city head for a request regarding the illegal re-profile of the construction of the public centre in the region of Teremka-1 of Kiev. [[10:17:02]] For the 110. Decision taken. Istwana Hydos to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide funding for the production of forms of Ukrainian passports. [[10:17:26]] For-54 The decision is not taken. Igora Ostaša to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of functioning the State Enterprise of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine "Lviv-2 Airport" and preventing the abuse and theft of airport property. [[10:17:58]] For-98 Decision taken. Mikoli Noshchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine about the situation of meeting for special use of water resources and the use of oxen for hydropower and water transport. [[10:18:28]] For 124 Decision taken. Igor Sharov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, for information on the referral of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the initiation of changes and additions to the Act on the Establishment of the Memory Fund. Responsibility. The future of payments to all categories of Nazi persecution. [[10:19:07]] For-144 Decision taken. Victor Slauta to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of compensation for the cost of construction of social objects in the rural area of the Donetsk Region. [[10:19:35]] For-88 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Yeshchenko to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, in connection with the violation of the rights of disabled persons of the Great Homeland War resident of Cherkasa on the extended renovation of the roof of the apartment. [[10:20:05]] For 112 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of land law in Winnicki and Kyiv. [[10:20:33]] For-152. Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Kiev City Head on pollution of the environment by the waste disposal plant "Energy", located in the Darnicki district of Kiev. [[10:21:08]] For-96 Decision taken. Mikoli Rudzikowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the cessation of a criminal case in the event of a road accident with a fatal outcome in the region of Chernigiv. [[10:21:41]] For-142 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case based on the fact of a secret burial in 37-38 years in the town of Winnice. [[10:22:08]] For-147 Decision taken. Mr. Mikoli Tomenka and Mr. Jurya Artemenko to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for obstructing the professional activities of journalists from officials of the Equality District Council [[10:22:37]] For 124 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration, for drawing officials of the internal forces of Ukraine to account for the purposeless use of the budget allocated to the construction of housing for military personnel. [[10:23:15]] For-126 Decision taken. Vladimir Matvieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the environmental situation in the Mikolai region. [[10:23:40]] For-151 Decision taken. Vladislav Atroshenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv Court of Appeal for the review of the judgment of a citizen of Alexander Grabovski [[10:24:08]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Sergija Ratushnjak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine for Road Traffic in the City of Uzhgrad, with the involvement of the confiscated police of the car led by the city's city head. [[10:24:38]] For-58 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the abuse, the theft of property, other violations of legislation in the process of privatizing the Suma Footwear Factory. [[10:25:06]] For-95 Decision taken. Igora Chelombitko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of office as head of the Tallinn District Council of the Cherka region. [[10:25:34]] For-125 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies: Lukyanenko, Czervoniy, Movčan, Petrov, Yushchenko, Plush to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case under article 442 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine "Genocide" concerning the organizers and perpetrators of artificial hunger, the genocide of the Ukrainian people in 1932-1933. [[10:26:14]] For the 120th. Decision taken. Paul Silent to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of citizens who have suffered attacks by criminals. [[10:26:40]] For-78 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Bronnikov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the facts of the unlawful actions of the Prosecutor’s Office of the Kamyan-Dniprov district of Zaporozhye. [[10:27:09]] For 122 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine on the provision of land for rent to a veteran of war, labor, the Armed Forces of the city of Svetłovodska Kirovograd. [[10:27:39]] For-81 The decision is not taken. Paul Silent to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of legislation by the management of a society with a limited responsibility to the Heat Region of Winnitsky. [[10:28:07]] For-75 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Rybak, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, on the return of tax on added value to the stockholders' association of the ISTI-Ukraine Minimetallurgical Plant. [[10:28:37]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Boris Zagriva to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine in connection with the failure of the State Tax Administration in the Volinsky area to fully respond to the parliamentary appeal for compensation for the added value tax. [[10:29:09]] Z-77 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Rybak, head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine, for the establishment of a Hamadei Dodeca business schedule for excise collection on tobacco products of Ukrainian production. [[10:29:39]] For-65 The decision is not taken. Mikoli Tomenko to the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Administration for providing information on the conduct of documentary tests on the media for 2002. [[10:30:07]] For 112 Decision taken. Alexander Turkinov to the head of the Ukrainian National Fund for Mutual Understanding and Reconciliation in the absence of a response to a parliamentary appeal regarding the issue of compensation to victims of Nazi persecution. [[10:30:36]] For-126 Decision taken. National Deputy of Ukraine Kachur Pavel Stepanovich to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the delay in opening the General Consulate of the Czech Republic in Lviv. [[10:31:08]] Z-91 Decision taken. National Deputy Stephen Cloud in the abuse of duty on the use of the property of the High Council of Justice to the head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Radchenk. [[10:31:38]] For the 180. Decision taken. National Deputy Baburin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal removal of land from the state-owned factory Zaporezki Horse Factory No. 86. [[10:32:11]] For-99 Decision taken. People of Kirichenko to the President of Ukraine on the use of specialized powers of state importance. It's about support. [[10:32:47]] For-65 The decision is not taken. National MP Marcus to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Papiew on the allocation of cars to veterans with disabilities of the Great Homeland War. [[10:33:31]] For the 110. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, all the questions that have come have been considered. Please use Kravchenka Mikoli Vasilovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u6	Thank you. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished members of the people. I want to draw your attention to the next one. 17.01 I made a request to the President, received the support of a 252-vote Supreme Council Hall, and the request went away, and the request was about a further increase in the tariffs for the carriage of goods to the University. Despite the morbidity of this topic, although it concerns virtually all regions of Ukraine, this disturbing issue has not been supported in the Office of the President. And I almost didn't get an answer, and I got an answer from the deputy secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules, I request that Gennady Andreevich announce in the Supreme Council Chamber the answer to my parliamentary request, in accordance with which he will give me five minutes to comment on this question, then put the question to the vote and discuss my draft regulation in general in order to return to the discussion of the question at all with regard to all branches of the power to the parliamentary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u7	Indeed, colleagues have such a standard in the Law on the Status of People’s Deputies, this article 8.3.3. It is suggested that the answer to the MP’s request will be announced by the chairman at the Supreme Council meeting if the MP insists. Mikola Vasilovich, you may announce. Please. You've got him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I will announce and comment on the five minutes under the Rules. Dear colleagues, what is the purpose of the MP's request for a further increase in tariffs and the transport of goods to Ukrzalznice? First of all, I want to show you the response of the Ministry of Transport signed by the Secretary of State. I do not need to receive the support of 252 people's deputies, this is practically a parliamentary appeal in order to receive a humiliating reply from the entire Parliament, where the alphabet truths tell Demidenko that we need to raise tariffs and that we are not yet adults at the world level on tariffs, that there are still reserves and that from all sectors of the people's economy will continue to "wrong" in violation of the law, I cannot otherwise call this word, a violation of the law and a presidential decree by the Minister of Transport of Cyprus. In my request, I asked one question: 2 laws have been violated. First. It's a violation of the President's orders. And the Law on Natural Monopolies has been violated. Why is the Ministry of Transport today addressing the rise in rail tariffs? This response clearly sets out how much more rail tariffs will be raised. Considering this to be offensive to the status of the people's representative, I would like to say this to Parliament as a whole. I, after sending and receiving your support, hope that the President will at least make a visa, that the President will at least be shown this parliamentary request. The President's administration apparently decided that it was not necessary to do so and that it was sent to the people who had raised the tariffs. During the discussion, I think we would be able to show the President that today, as Minister of Transport, Cyprus holds two positions, usurped power, closed almost all financial flows to itself, which is a grave violation of the law, and thus today, Cyprus is practically parasitizing the general public. Today, I think every MP will be affected by the problem of increasing transport tariffs. But I am dividing this question into two points. First. I would like the people's deputies to come back with you to discuss the issue of a parliamentary inquiry at all. Why, to date, the executive authorities allow write-offs and other points regarding parliamentary requests, and sometimes even refuse to respond. I therefore introduced a draft regulation, which was registered today, which was issued to you today, and on Thursday I ask him to put it to a vote and to set out there in order to include the question of parliamentary questions in the agenda of the High Council session and to discuss the issue in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u9	Okay, thanks. Let's move on to the factions from the faction. The word is given to the national deputy Alexander Mikolaiovich Masenka, please the Communist Party of Ukraine. The next one is Stephen Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u10	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! Our people, our constituents, have already become accustomed to all the money that is being made in Ukraine, and to all the wonders and surprises that the President has already made political reform in Ukraine, as such a marvel, no one in the world has ever seen. But I would like to draw attention to today's life issues that we don't have to resolve from the guilt of both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers and the leadership of the state. And I had a recent encounter with people. This is the question that the electorate is asking, that's how we have Oranta insurance, that's how we have the insurance company, that's the insurance company, that's the insurance company, that's the home animals, that's the insurance for the total amount, for example, that's 3 or 6 thousand dollars. But if there was a disaster, an animal was killed, then the company would return half, 50 percent of the insurance amount. What a surprise it must be that no country has ever seen! Well, there was the State of the Union of RSR, which was insured under the same conditions, but the whole amount came back. At the same time, from the second district of Seminal Region of Poltava, another reference is made that when hunting rifles are reregistered, internal organs require the owners of these rifles to insure their own lives for three years. So then if there's a disaster, so is 50 percent of the compensation, or 10 percent, or how much? I think that this address, my address or today's, should also be as a reference to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Cabinet of Ministers should respond to that question. And I also wanted to take one look at this question. We have a lot of court decisions, but we can't ensure the execution of a court decision. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is carrying out, virtually, discounts. Many of these examples. The court's decision does not pay the paid salary, does not pay the alimony, does not pay the money, does the traffic, does the people die, does the people get hurt, does the material and moral damage, and cannot, does not have the mechanism to compensate for the damage. And at the same time, the same truck that did this crash, and so far, it's working on production, and no one can find a mechanism to implement it, and it's worth the damage. I believe that, Hennady Andriyovich, we need to address this appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers and let the Ministry of Justice address the Supreme Council with its proposal -- which is the mechanism that the law needs to be adopted to ensure the execution of the court's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u11	Thank you. Let's give the Secretariat protocol on this issue to the government. Stepan Cloud. Next Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u12	Yulia Tymoshenko's block, Fatherland's Party. Honorable national MPs, honourable voters, March 9th on the day of the great festival of the Ukrainian people, on Taras Shevchenk’s birthday, held numerous public meetings in Ukraine. In Kiev, a huge column of protestants passed through the central streets, organized with all opposition regardless of ideological differences, and held a joint rally near Taras Shevchenk’s monument. Over 150,000 gathered for the rally. - and they're almost sneezes. It's unlike all other years since the 1990s, Kiev has never seen such a huge demonstration. Many of the events were held in most of Ukraine’s cities. But unfortunately, the cushmin-oligarchy media are trying to hide this information from the people in a variety of ways. Why is this being done? Because the unanimity of the manifesto and the rally participants was one - time removal from power of the Kuchma regime and the holding of the timely elections. The authorities fear this because they know that all these crimes and thievery committed against Ukraine will have to be held accountable. So everything is being done to distract our citizens from the true events and will of the people that was expressed on March 9. I want to remind you that stocks will not stop, they will be held in different forms, and especially in May there will be a chain that will pass through Ukraine from the western to the eastern border to emphasize once again the common field of the entire Ukrainian people in the fight for the better future of Ukraine. I call on all of our citizens, active citizens of Ukraine, not to weaken their opposition to the current regime that is leading Kuchma, because every day of its existence is a huge loss to Ukraine, and in the end, this regime can lead Ukraine to a final collapse and a loss of independence. We can't let that happen, we can't let that happen, and we can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u13	Alexander Frost, faction of the Socialist Party. The next Dmitry Rudkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u14	The Socialist faction prepared a statement of this content: "Yesterday, President Kuchma instructed the governors not to raise the price for bread, and on March 13, this year, it was known that he had entrusted the Attorney General of Piscona to investigate the situation in the grain market. The faction of socialists sees it as an act. What else needs to be investigated. When everyone knows that last year, grain traders and other passersby took grain at an average cost of 300 dollars a tonne, with 700 dollars a year earlier. This was done first by the efforts of the government, especially the Ministry of Agricultural Policy. The government and the crooks initially attributed the grain to the barn, knocked down the price, and heated the peasants for nearly 7 billion dollars, undermined the financial situation of the entire agro-industry complex, made most of the farms bankrupt, and the peasants a beggar. At the same time, it should be remembered that at the same time, these adjectives artificially increased the price of fuel, and the peasants were added. Meanwhile, for the population of Ukraine, the price of bread has not decreased. The funny thing is that the bread costs only 15 percent of the raw material, the grain, and all the rest are brokers and taxes. But this too is not enough for the authorities and speculators. In the fall, they picked up advertising violence about how difficult it was for a successful agrarian state to break into the international grain market. And now the public opinion is that there is no bread, it should be imported from other countries, and so the price will increase. Since Kuchma himself is involved in this game, it is suspected that human money is being raised for the next political campaign. Bread, which has now become the main and often the only food for Ukrainians, because of opaqueness, price uncontrolledness, because of the sales of power, has become a tool for looting and farming and the most debilitating of the population. Ukrainian national deputies from the Socialist Party faction in the Socialist Party have repeatedly warned of the disastrous consequences of such a course. Legislative proposals were made to put an end to it and to remove it. But the authorities are ignoring national legislation to protect the domestic producer and social support of the population. The faction requires the government to consider this matter immediately and to take thorough steps to remedy the situation. If the culprits are not held accountable for a month, the socialists will feel that this crime has taken place under the direct patronage of the head of state himself. The Supreme Council needs to change its course, stop the looting of peasants, create a legislative basis for the recovery of the crisis in which the country today's regime has thrown, the regime of those who benefit from the same woes of the people. We suggest we create a commission of inquiry on this matter. Whatever the case, the Agrarian Policy Committee should be assigned to find out how the bread affair took place. Socialist MPs have always stressed that when the Kuchma regime and the entire system remain unchanged, Ukraine will face irreversible processes of complete degradation. Protect the villagers, protect the entire population, preserve the state!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u15	If there is no objection, give a protocol commission to the relevant Agrarian Policy Committee to study the issue. The word is given to Dmitri Rudkowski, a faction of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine. The next one is Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u16	Dmitry Rudkowski, 91 constituency, Bila Church, Labour Ukraine. Dear national deputies, distinguished members of the government. I feel it is necessary to address you in connection with the situation that has arisen in addressing the urgent problems of social protection of people who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. For the White Church, which I am introducing, this is a very relevant issue, since there are almost 60,000 black people living here. My colleagues from Kyivsk, Chernigiv, Žitomir region, and other regions of Ukraine are also well aware of this problem, for they are not dealing with it every day. It's not new. At the same time, the real dimensions of its solution are virtually absent. The main reason for this is the chronic underfunding of Chernobyl programs. This has led to a much higher debt on social payments to black people, who according to Minfin are over 600 million dollars. Yes, the government is planning partial debt repayment for 2003, but the 200 million that are foreseen in the State Budget are only partially addressing the problem. These costs are essential for the comprehensive, health - care provision of affected citizens, their recovery, the payment of compensation to families with children, and the provision of food for the victims. In my constituency alone, debt on Chernobyl payments is over 20 million dollars. The most acute situation is the payment of monthly financial compensation for the provision of food to affected black people and, above all, to disabled people. Yes, last year these people received compensation only in April. They are indignant not only by the fact that they are being held back but also by the lack of reliable information, in which time their debt is not paid and when they will finally be paid due under the law. Almost 1 out of every 10 electorates has to do with this problem. In today’s economic conditions, it is certainly not easy to resolve it, but it is necessary to resolve it. That's why I'm calling on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to take urgent measures to eliminate the debt owed to black people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u17	Thank you. "Eurobiber" by Ivan Vernidubov. Next up is Yukhnowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u18	Verni Dubov, Sevastopol, European Choice. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The “European Choice” Group, like other deputies, began discussions on the draft Government Programme “Openness, efficiency, efficiency”. The view is much more relative to what provisions are considered to be priority, which are to be implemented immediately and in a similar manner. They're the same. Having discussed it, it should be accepted and supported by all of us, and by working together to implement each line so as not to succeed as with previous programmes, as well as with good documents. Meetings with people, MPs clearly show that if the program becomes another package of slogans, people will not forgive it anymore. The issue of payroll arrears is particularly pressing. The Presidential Decree of 7 May 2001 on urgent measures to speed up the arrears of wages was mandatory for the payment of wages by enterprises of all forms of property until 1 January 2003. Something's done. There is confidence in selected industries that the disgraceful phenomenon of restructuring, a failure to pay for work, will finally be overcome. But what if it's the other way around? Like the Sevastopol fishing industry. Compared to the same year 2000, debt rose three and a half times in the state-owned enterprise of the Atlantic, and the State-owned company of Suor also tripled its debt where it had not existed before. Although these enterprises are directly subordinated to the Ukrainian State Department of Fisheries, the leader of Alymov, they have little to do to resolve the issue. Repeated written petitions by the People's Deputy, letters from local authorities are ignored. Their pledges to sell ships and to pay debts are not being fulfilled. I mean, the courts are being sold and the money is not being paid. People are desperate. It's in the collectives. The team is hearing that the heads of the State Department are paying for expensive trips to Las Palmas and other not-so-cold parts of the world. Personally, Alomov is afraid to leave the group. The district administration of the Gagarinsk district of Sevastopol, which had been tired of adopting in its meetings other false schedules of write-offs on repayment dates, had itself drawn up a draft exit from the business crisis and sent it to the department. From there, however, major experts have not even tried to criticize the program. What are we, MPs, afraid of in discussing the government's draft programme and in view of such concrete inaction of individual heads of ministries and committees? The efforts of the Government and the President to improve the lives of people from such indifference are being discredited. Unfortunately, this issue was not of interest to the public prosecutor of the city, where many letters were also sent. The Government programme provides for debt reduction measures in the section on improving the quality of life of the population. I address the Prime Minister and the President. Dear Victor Fedorovich, Leonid Danilovich! These lines will remain a wish if you do not find effective levers of influence on subordinate ministers. People have to feel the results in real order, they're waiting for change.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is given to Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, "Our Ukraine". Next up is Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Ukraine has fertile lands and the opportunity to get the cheapest in the world of natural crops. In the forests of Ukraine there are also high - quality oak trees, pines, fir trees, and beech trees. This means that agricultural production is organized and modernised [See bullet 00:57:07/Alexandra Fr. 024] , the food and wood industries are among the most important tasks of the state. At the same time, Ukraine does not encourage the development of processing areas if agriculture and forestry work in low taxation, low prices that stimulate the export of raw grain and commercial wood products, and in the processing industry, the light and woodworking industries work under an unusual burden of taxation and commercial prices. Most government and national MPs have suggested that VAT taxes and excise duties should be reduced and that income tax should be paid and paid. However, huge trade prices in these areas are completely at stake. Yes, in 2000 and 2001, trade prices in the food industry amounted to 9 and a half billion dollars, accounting for 30 percent of the total cost of production in wholesale prices; in textile and leather industries, 1.5 billion dollars, 22 percent of the total cost of production; in woodworking, 1 billion dollars, 40 percent of the cost of production in wholesale prices. By doing so, we are cutting into the market for processed industries by stimulating the export of raw materials, stimulating the low purchasing power of the population of Ukraine. Recommendations for saving the course are US dollar bracelets. Apply fiscal and administrative methods to limit trade prices to 15-20 percent of wholesale price. At the same time, increase the cost of production by increasing wages and deductions for depreciation. Protect the internal market for food products from imports of similar and not higher than the external price. In this regard, the Cabinet of Ministers is entitled to impose excise duties on imports of goods. The government has to report on excise policies to the Supreme Council twice during the fiscal year, and excise duties should be government policy. Ukraine’s trading system requires much more attention both from executive authorities and from the parties [See bullet 00:59:36/LENAF. 025] the legislative authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u21	Thank you. The word is given to Kalinchuku Vasil Antonovich, a faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u22	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Agrarian Party's deputy faction, after familiarizing itself with the project of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's "Openness, Effectiveness, Efficiency", believes that the main thrust of the State policy on the development of the agricultural sector of the economy in today's conditions should be: the preservation of land and its fertility through the targeted use of land payments in accordance with article 22 of the Land Pay and Restoration Act; The continuation of the special tax regime for agricultural producers is a fixed tax, VAT, by 2010; Improving mechanisms and increasing to 80 billion dollars per year the amount of government subsidies for agricultural production and, in particular, milk and meat, which will ensure the competitiveness of domestic production when Ukraine joins WTO and the European Union; increasing the volume and extension of terms by at least 5 years of special, with available percentages of lending to agricultural enterprises that will contribute to the restoration and maintenance of production. To continue to compensate producers for part of the cost, but not less than 30 per cent of the complex agricultural techniques of domestic production; regulation of agricultural prices through the introduction of financial and public intervention, mortgage purchases, quotas and lower price limits for loss-making products. To regulate the grain market, there are at least 2 million tonnes of grain to be purchased annually; the introduction of a partial, not less than 50 per cent of compensation to producers for the cost of insurance of production and compensation from the State budget for half of the expenditure of the Pension Fund in connection with the continuation of the fixed agricultural tax; the allocation of the full amount of state and local budgets for the development of the agricultural sector; empowering local authorities and self-government to use local budget funds to finance [See bullet 01:02:05/IrinaFr. 026] local agricultural development programmes, active social policy in rural areas, 30 per cent of state capital and road construction funds from the Road Fund for the construction of socio-cultural facilities and roads in rural areas, reimbursements to producers of their costs for the construction of rural social infrastructure facilities, completion of the transfer to the communal property of socio-cultural facilities owned by collective farms and the provision of sufficient funds for local budgets each year for their maintenance. We hope that all these policies in the agricultural sphere of the economy will be reflected in the government's work programme. We're counting on the support of the deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A bill amending the Ukrainian Land Rental Act is under consideration. Reported to the Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Danilenko Anatoly Stepanovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u24	Honourable Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill prepared for the implementation of chapter nine of the Ukrainian Code of Land, taking into account the experience of restored land relations in our country. Today’s land lease law, adopted in 1998, has a number of disagreements with Ukraine’s new Land Code, which deals with only two articles. The bill is intended to provide a mechanism for directing funds from land leases, which is a prerequisite for an effective regional policy of the State, for the establishment of a financial base of activities, and for local self-government. Land rent remains the principal form of land use by landowners. In this regard, the law should provide a legal basis for the formation of a modern market structure of production, particularly in the agricultural field, to promote an attractive investment climate in all sectors of the national economy, as well as the full integration into the active economic circle of the most important productive force, namely our Ukrainian land. The bill defines the concept of land rental, which is based on a contract, fixed-term land ownership, and the use of land to introduce entrepreneurial activities, other activities, and the personal needs of the tenant. The leases are not only private, communal, or state property but also plantations, waterhouses, buildings, buildings, other immovable property on them, closely linked to them, and cannot be separated without damaging or losing their farm assignment. The main provisions of the bill are the extension of the rent - related entities, in particular the law states that landlords may be owners of land and persons authorized by them and landowners may be citizens, legal persons of Ukraine, foreigners and stateless persons, foreign legal persons, international associations and organizations, as well as foreign nations. A new arrangement for renting contracts, which provides that in the case of leases, leases, renters, and renters, the location, land plot size, construction status, rental facilities, and other immovable property that ensures the operation of the lease object according to the intended purpose. The new order is aimed at reducing the number of complaints about land status during the extension and termination of the lease agreement, I said that a little earlier. The issue of land exchange is to solve the problem of land use through strips, landslides, and landslides. The envisaged possibility of rent insurance is a typical form of land lease agreement, which greatly simplifies the arrangement of the lease. Detailed arrangements have been made for land leases to be leased to state and municipal property, and there is a need for notarial certification of land leases. This will reduce the cost of notarial services for citizens. The rules on the rights and obligations of renters and renters have been developed. The project specified the terms and conditions for the payment of rent for land and its changes in the amount of debt. It is possible to exempt from rent on the basis of the contract. Artificial barriers to land subordination have been removed. Dear National MPs, after adoption of the bill, the State's land policy will stimulate effective economic activity using the land as the main means of production in the agricultural sphere and the territorial base in other fields. Ukraine's proposal to amend the Land Rental Act will strengthen the economic mechanism for rent regulation, address the problems of notarial recognition of lease contracts, the terms of the contract and the termination of the lease, and specify the composition of the land leases. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that is being considered in the session hall today was in line with the ministries and the State Committees, and today it is being considered in the first reading. The information on the substance of the matter, venerable Gennady Andryovich, is complete. Ready to answer the questions asked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u25	Okay. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Light up, please. Vernigora, next one is Cherniak. Please, Leonid Vernigore.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Valentina Petrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u27	Please, Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u28	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Anatoly Stepanovich, first of all, I have two questions for you. A decree, a more faithful presidential decree, issued about one and a half percent of the rent paid, was actually issued by the time the decree period ended. It refers to the transitional positions of the Constitution. How do you think the judiciary today can apply this decree, which is already issued in contradiction to the Constitution? That's the first question. That is, when the deadline for issuing decrees is over. The second question. As is discussed today, to examine in detail what kind of rent is paid by Ukrainian citizens for those pies in the area, in the summary expression, which areas are larger today, which are smaller. For some reason such calculations were not included in the bill. What can you say in the area section and in the region section? Because I drink my share in Kharkiv district one, and Zakarpatt another. Or the Chernobyl area where the right to land is restricted today and the clean zone is different. Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u29	Thank you, Reverend Valentina Petrovna, for the questions raised. First. The President's decree on social protection, social support for citizens, landowners and landowners does not violate the current legislation and specifically the Constitution, because it is about to develop support for the social protection of our citizens. That's the first one. The other one. About the rent that is now in various regions of our Ukraine. On the average, on the basis of the President's decree, which defines no less than 1.5 percent of the monetary valuation of the land, which in Ukraine on average amounts to 135 dollars per hectare of land, in fact, in some areas there is more, an example can be given, the Winnitz area, a number of areas for renting one hectare as well as 135 dollars, and in others where land of less quality is leased, because we are taking a single hectare of land that is in rent. So on the average, it's about 135 dollars per hectare. If it's in a total number, based on the President's decree, it's going to be more than 3 billion dollars to be paid to citizens, to Ukrainians, to landowners, to land rations. And specifically in the incision, I'm ready to give you Valentina Petrovna literally by evening, because right now I don't have her at my fingertips, although that's not the norm of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u30	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u31	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear reporter! I have two questions about, in my opinion, two painful points of the problem. First question. How will an objective assessment of the lease be provided? And get up. How will rent be set? And the second question. How will the condition of the lease be monitored so that there is no deterioration? And are the sanctions foreseen for the deterioration of the lease, especially in the case of a suborndant?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Kirilovich! You're how global you've raised the question and the layer. Objectivity. I think that in a short period of time, the Supreme Council will be considering the preparation of drafts of the Law on Registration of Lands and Objects in These Land Areas. It is the formation of a cadastral system, the introduction into the registration system of landowners of those leased sites, that will provide an objective opportunity, based on the monetary valuation of each land area, to objectively prepare a contract for land leases with the active assistance of land officials and to obtain what will be stipulated in the land lease agreement. About control. I was speaking from this rostrum when we were reviewing the draft Law on Control of the Use and Protection of the Lands of Ukraine. And this is a very relevant issue, and I think in this direction, coming out of the good support of the Supreme Council, we need to step up control. This task is now entrusted to the authorities of land resources. And I'm counting on good support, both by the executive heads and by the heads of self-government, because we have enough and enough problems in both large and small towns and small villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u33	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Social Democratic Party, please. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u34	Thank you. Anatolia Stepanovich should certainly welcome legislative attempts to settle the land lease differences associated with the taking of the Earth’s standards. I have two brief questions throughout and in the development of the thought expressed by my colleague. Regarding the mandatory rule, see article 26, part 1, that the size of the rent should change every three years. This would result in a collapse of leases when the tenant is uncertain about tomorrow. Three years from now, he'll have other conditions waiting for him. And the second question about article 29. Look, please, there you write that the tenant is required to provide a copy of the contract to the relevant tax authority in a 5-day period. Did I misinterpret something? And we have all the copies in the government's land administration, where all these contracts are registered. Why bring in the tax office?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u35	I thank you very much for the questions raised and the articles you said. Well, first of all, I think we're going to be looking at this bill in the second reading. But until we have a clear and unique system of land registration and land registration and land registration facilities and real estate and rights, there will be a conflict that you have just heard. I am very grateful that you are raising these questions. In the further preparation of the bill, I think we're going to work on it and consider your suggestions. Thank you. They're very right. But first of all, in my opinion, the Supreme Council needs to consider the bills that I've mentioned and then this will significantly improve the state of affairs in dealing with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u36	Thank you, Anatoly Stepanovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The head is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u37	Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u38	Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Lechenko Vladimir Aleksyyyovich. Please, Vladimir Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u39	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I'm going to point out that I'm going to report to the committee. The Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations welcomed the Government’s draft law amending the Land Rental Act. We believe that the purpose of its adoption is to increase the effectiveness of legal regulation of land use on lease terms. The bill has a number of positive qualities, as discussed in the report by the government representative of Danilenko Anatolia Stepanović. In particular, it is positive that leasers of land belonging to private property, apart from their owners, may also be authorized by them. This enables peasants to form land and property associations and to make land leases with leasers directly authorized by the owners of these joints, rather than separately by each owner of the rations, as has been the case so far. This position will protect the rights of renters in their dealings with renters. The bill also establishes that when the lease is completed, extended, or terminated, the renter and the renter together describe the lease. The draft law provides that the standard form of land lease will now be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Land leases include the renter’s liability for not paying the rent. There are other positive changes compared to the Ukrainian Land Rental Act in the current edition. In addition, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations notes that the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine requires compliance with articles 19, 93, 94, 122, paragraphs 10, 12 and 17 of the Land Transition Code on land leases of agricultural destination, leases, leases of land to concessionaires, the competence of executive authorities and local self-government bodies. Yes, local government authorities have been deprived of this draft law of the right to agree prior to the sessions of the relevant councils on the decision of the executive authorities to rent land owned by the State. This can lead to conflicts between local communities and future tenants. The draft law eliminates the requirement for land renters for agricultural purposes, which will lead to commercial agricultural production, for legal persons - for them to be required to carry out such activities, for individuals to have appropriate qualifications or experience in agriculture. It also excludes the transfer of land to citizens who own agricultural land for rent only for agricultural use with clearly defined exceptions. This is true of the suborendum. Article 15 makes the concept of land lease worse. For more than five years, it is excluded that a land lease agreement is required to be notionally certified. Instead, a mandatory notary certificate of the lease is proposed if the lease is paid in advance for more than 1 year. It raises doubts about the proposal to set up, at the State’s disposal, land-based commissions to determine the size of the rent on agricultural land. This issue, in the view of members of the committee, should be settled within the framework of a single state policy by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are other points to the bill. In addition, a number of observations and suggestions from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office should be taken into account in the drafting of the Law on the Amendment to the Land Rent Act. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and that when preparing for the second reading, take into account all the comments and suggestions already made, as well as those that will come from the national deputies of Ukraine during the discussion or in writing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, is the matter up to the head of the subcommittee? Please sign up. Five minutes. Please state on board the names of the national deputies. Gennady Rudenko, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine, please. [[united]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u41	Thank you. Rudenko Hennaday, Social Democratic faction. We have some comments before the bill, although we may immediately submit the final thesis. We're ready to base a bill that takes into account some of the comments. In particular, norm-design technology should be left valid in the article of the first and second Ukrainian Land Rental Act, which defines the tasks of the law and the legal principles of land rental. We also have questions about what is to be removed from the draft part of article 34, which states that the terms of the lease may be forced upon the court’s decision to make changes that are unacceptable in our view. The bill must also provide for rules that regulate the renting of land that is followed by persons who have not reached adulthood. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u42	I thank you for these suggestions. It's not a question, it's a proposition. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations will consider them if a bill is adopted as a basis for preparing for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u43	Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u44	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol City. Dear Vladimir Aleksevic, please tell me, in order to get a glimpse of this issue, we need to go back some time ago, when we saw the collapses of the OO-inacting STS, and now an investor has arrived, let's say, to the village. He's different, too, investor. Here's me, let's say. There was this impression that this law was written under that investor, the timer who came to raise money and leave. And if a person came with serious intentions, there were many collectives, many industrial enterprises, investing money in the village today, helping, developing infrastructure. This is where the value of the land lease, at least 10 per cent of the estimated value and so on, is obtained from this point of view. You don't get the impression that it's the law that's written just to get people to do what they do, come and go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u45	Thank you for asking. I reported to the committee. My personal opinion is that each of these weights around the lease will lead to what led to the certifications during the privatization of state-owned enterprises. It's just a scam for peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u46	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u47	Nikolainka, faction of socialists, Hersonian. Dear Vladimir Alexiyovich, I'm very often in the district, I'm meeting with the peasants, and I have such a feeling that we've introduced a fixed tax today. In fact, the state left with a tax press from the village. The second one introduced this property into the land of private property, producing pies of land, and so forth. And today, peasants, by renting land, and this law there defines these moments, how do we publish, register, and so on, practically, what do we have? No one is counted for these pies because the price of agricultural production is that all leases are not executed. And second, how can we solve this problem today when, let's say, the price on the grain market is 200 grams of tons, well, it was 300 dollars of tons, and the leases are 1,000 dollars or 800. And my grandmother gave me two buckets of garbage today, and they figured it was 500 bucks. They come to me and say, "Lease terms." Who will be responsible for the leases, who will be responsible, and when? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. As for lowering the tax pressure on the village, I would tell you that the state has reduced but raised the monopolies, and it's also created by the state, by decrees and by the legislative field. As for your question about the value of the otace. about the rent, about the size and cost of the product, which is issued for the rent, its quality, then I would say to myself the following, that in this bill it was necessary to provide for the only form of rent -- money, and then let the peasant decide whether he would buy this garbage in the renter's office at a high price, or whether he would buy it on the side. But the government has introduced a bill that provides for three forms of rent -- cash, natural and off-balance sheet. I'm only personal for the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u49	Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u50	The honourable reporter, well, the usual thing to do is to settle the relationship between the renter and the renter, that's understandable, but in this situation, I also don't understand, I can't understand why these 10 percent are written out, why is it written down, why is it actually 10 percent, and what's the valuation value? What is 10 percent of us taking, what is the market value of the land, what is it going to be based on if there is no adopted land cadastre law and so on? How do you get out of this colossus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Well, these up to 10 percent are written down for those lands that will be leased by government authorities and local self-government. And for the villagers, unfortunately, this rule is not set at all. And if you say, as an estimate of the land is done, now, in fact, there is no bill, but the state authorities estimate the land. And it's at this estimated cost of land that leases are on, and then interest on rent is on it. By his decree for this year, the President set a percentage and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u52	Yes, Volodymyr Alexiovich, thank you. Time's up. Let's move on to the discussion. Please explain on the table those who signed up for the talk. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Please prepare Puzakov. We're taking 15 minutes to talk, aren't we?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u53	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Honorable People’s Deputies — Is There a Need for Amendments to the Law? The Law was passed on October 6, 1998. Unfortunately, he was accepted in an extremely poor way. And you know that then the Earth Code, which was accepted in a poor way, and legally, is an imperfect document. Now we have to settle the gaps. But I can't say that this project, which is being implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers, is irreprehensible. And I would like to thank the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for somehow forgetting those humble people who are sitting and working. This is Erophew, the Fisherman, and then Matsuk. Worked and noted. Conceptually, two thirds of these observations need to be taken into account. In particular, I would like to point out that if we conceptually support the changes to article two on the legal principles of land rental and not to mention that there should be a land lease relationship, it is not only governed by the Earth Code, by this law, by the Civil Code, which is now signed by the President, by other acts of legislation, and by the land lease agreement. We need to determine, and it should be conceptually written that if a land plot is leased for the development of beneficial fossils, which is included in the Nadra Code, the State’s interest in the development of beneficial fossils has priority. And this right now has to be written down, change where we set up guarantees for the protection of property rights for the state itself. And for those nagras to be exploited, when given, the issue of renting land is being considered. Needs changes and part of the 6th, needs a change in the question of renters' rights, needs serious regulatory approaches, and the committee's attention has been given to paying attention to notarial certification. Today, there are many complaints. Here today the question was that we have a problem with grain. That problem that we are raising today, making changes to the Land Rental Act, also has a bearing, a direct attitude toward what happened. Although I was told the word then, it was not added, of course, by factions. Yes, the problem with grain is why the grains that were produced by mass adjectives of the heads of the government are not enough. And this happened in several areas to get orders, medals and so on. That's something to change. And take down a few governors right away. I think that if there is enough sanity, and the committee will do so, taking into account the comments that are being made today, this law must be adopted both in the first reading and on an urgent basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u54	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. Get ready for Melnichuk Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u55	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština In December 1999, the President of Ukraine, by his Decree on Urgent Measures to Accelerate the Reform of the Agrarian Sector of the Economy, decided to reform collective agricultural enterprises for land and property during December 1999 and April 2000. Such reform in the agro-industrial complex could only be done by a temporary irresponsible anti-national regime. The villagers were not prepared for such a reform, they did not know how their farms should have been reformed, why they were doing it, and why the entire estate complexes were to be destroyed. In many cases, however, former farm managers and some parts of the agribusiness and not without officials have benefited. For example, the rural head of the village of Polyyivka, the region of Kirovograd, abused the service position, acquired the right to redistribute land pie to peasants. In order to produce State land-pea acts in kind, he redesigned a plan for the outer borders of land where the land portion of 5 hectares fell to 3 hectares, and the area of the land-sharing scheme did not correspond to a map of 77 hectares. No 41 hectares were added to the State Act’s land distribution scheme. There's also a lot of land-use violations in the area. Thus, in the same village of Paliyevka, the village’s head, ignoring existing legislation, illegally gave the land rations to 51 people from the reserve fund, as well as fictitious land leases to citizens who do not live in the village at all. And, to put it mildly, by deceiving them, grain crops grow on these same lands. Thus, rural councils are in constant violation of land lease legislation, and when contracts are made, they do different kinds of machinations and make them their own. Facts are allowed when the production of State acts on the land market is downgraded, as previously passed on to the collective ownership of the CSR. For example, at the session of the Sokolovska Rural Council of the Kirovograd Region, a decision was taken to transfer a land plot of 26 hectares to a 25-year lease, where the KSP "Ukraine" is located in a private enterprise without the consent of its owner. In 2000, the cost - balanced garden of 12,000 dollars earned more than 25,000 dollars to the farm. A private entrepreneur is currently illegally using KSP "Ukraine" and renting a garden pays only 1 percent as a land lease, and he uses all the profits from the garden for his purposes. Hence, the specific examples show that the Land Rental Law is not being implemented at all today. Article 14 and others are being violated everywhere. It turns out that the loud words, the confident brava reports of the woe reformers on the growth in Ukraine by the numerous armies of landowners, are just another issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u56	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u57	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill presented today to the Supreme Council on land rental needs support in this room. But it is important to take into account the comments made by my fellow speakers and to take into account the suggestions that I will make as Ukraine’s national deputy. The bill that was submitted today does not provide a complete answer to the mechanism for land leases to landowners of land certificates. There are observations regarding the establishment of land-based commissions in the state authorities while setting the size of the rent. There is no doubt that if such commissions are created, there must be abuse. Therefore, we need to approach this very carefully. And be careful about that. I believe that part 2 of article 20 of the bill, which the renter sells during the lease, needs to be reviewed and corrected. But it is suggested that after the renter has sold the property, the rent is preserved. How so? If I bought this land and the renter put in some funds for land improvement and so on, the land was sold at that time, and it's still on the deadline. But whoever's buying it, if he can buy it out so that the other one can own some three or four years or five years there. This needs to be settled. Article 24 requires further work, since it should not be marketable. There is no market for land in Ukraine, and it will not soon be, and we realize that there are no rules for this, even in the state, to create a market for land. But at the same time, we recommend that we use this terminology as "market value." We should consider and reject the land’s monetary valuation in this matter. The bill should address the issue of minor heirs. Is that the situation in Ukraine today? If there is a minor heir, this should also be taken into account. The following question. It requires a legislative definition of the boundary terms of non-use of land by purpose, after which it can be removed from the lease. As for the situation in the grain market, I'll say two sentences. Ukraine exported 8 million grains, wheat, and more than 4 million applications today. The wheat is in Ukraine, purchased by 300 bucks, let's have 350 of it traded and there'll be cheap bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u58	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, prepare for Konovaluku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u59	The faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Hmelnicki Party of Fatherland. Honorable Presidium, members of the government, national deputies and journalists! I want to do it. A few general regulations like that, and then directly to this law, it'll be clearer. I want to draw attention, especially to journalists, to the fact that no developed country in the world sells land to foreigners. Foreigners are sold only to underdeveloped countries. Unfortunately, we have adopted the Earth Code by means of falsification, which establishes a mechanism for the sale of land to foreigners. I also want to draw your attention, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the fact that I am one of the co-authors, we have changes and additions to the Earth Code, where the standards of a developed civilised country, namely, ban on selling land to foreigners. It's very short. And so I ask that from this bill, because there are these changes to the Earth Code, remove the mechanism through renting land to foreigners. It is so well established that it is possible to sell land to foreigners very quickly, and the same foreigner will then sell the land back to the same Ukrainians at a market price of not more than 135 dollars. So the question. What is more, there is a mechanism in place today where it is very easy to launder dirty money, especially for foreigners, at the expense of our land. So these chapters need to be removed, more than that, at the very beginning, to narrow down the limits of this law only by the lands of agricultural destination. Because Carmazin has already begun to speak, and you can imagine that there are useful fossils, such as coal. You understand why you can sell this mine, the way that this land on the top, because it's not settled. So the question of nadda, the law we have, so we don't have to expand the position of this law, they don't have to be extended. It's such a specialty. On the other hand, you have to write clearly and clearly that not only will someone there be a land, but you have to make it right under the terms of the treaty, so there has to be a typical agreement where there must be conditions that need to be aimed at keeping the characteristics of the land in order not to be destroyed. So we need to work on this law so that it can act in the interests of the villagers and in the interests of Ukraine. So I'm proposing it for the first time again, because there's a lot of fundamentals to change here. And finally about the market of the earth. So, I've already been certified by Catherine Vaschuk, Timofievna, that there's a grain market law. There is no such law, something registered, and there is no law. So I suggest, I'll be the author who wants to, join in, let's write a very simple law on the land market, the grain market.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u61	First rule: you cannot set the price below the cost with a certain profit. And the second. During agricultural work, it is necessary to impose moratoriums or set standards, regulate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u62	Thank you, Mikhailo Antonovich, to regulate the prices on the dispensary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u63	Valery Konovaluk, faction of the Ukraine region, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u64	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, indeed, the issue is very important for us to really see the development of the state, the improvement of the conditions in which most of our citizens now live, including what we consider to be a reform of the agricultural and industrial complex. Parliamentary hearings devoted to reforming and improving the situation in the countryside have strongly demonstrated that reforms in this sector of the economy have been expected more than they have received. The Ukrainian Land Rental Act was adopted in 98, i.e. four years ago. The content of the basic regulations and norms does not conflict with the current Earth Code and with the requirements. which is living in connection with the fundamental reform of land relations in Ukraine. The rules of law are clearly stated that there is no basis for reading when practical application is made. Thanks to his complex and comfortable internal constructive construction of chapters and legal standards, he justified his assignment to regulate leases in Ukraine. Of course, there are some gaps in the law’s legal standards that have been identified in its practical application, which are related to the legal change in social relations, the adoption of the new Earth Code, and so forth. But they're not conceptual in essence. They can be corrected by making adjustments and supplements. I take the drafters of this bill very seriously. But experts believe that on land relations, the proposed new edition of the Ukrainian Land Rental Act does not contain any new substantive provisions that will lead to improved land lease regulation. In its internal form, the project is cumbersome, the standards are composed and presented in a way that is not always clear, sometimes blurry, which causes a mixed interpretation. In view of the above, I believe it is appropriate not to change the current land lease law into a new one, to make some changes to reflect the real situation in the field of rental relations and to improve their settlement. By the way, this is what the President of Ukraine proposed last year's message to the Supreme Council. In a good example, there are practical cases of land leases under the floor. Buildings in multistory buildings, bearing in mind that the only standard for regulating such matters is article 120 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Whether it is sufficient to cover the wide range of practical situations in relation to which it is deemed necessary to provide for leases to be made on a part of the land without being made in kind. And the last. Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: for a time, we see that the implementation of legislation in Ukraine needs more control, not the development of a new regulation of the laws of those who are likely to solve some problems. That's why I think these supplements and supplements should be added to the Ukrainian Act on Land Rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u65	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for consideration is exhausted. Olga Hinzburg, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Hinzburg, 161 constituency. I always, I can't write down or record a car at the end, and I can't say a word. Say it. I wanted to say a few questions very briefly. This law, which is very much needed today, has to be revised or deleted in some articles. Two, very short. For example, if the village council disagrees with the rent of the land today, all the lakes, like I have in the district, today all follow the signature of the district administrations, and they rent, not agreeing with the village councils. They're breaking the law now. What's going to happen tomorrow? And another problem. This law must be accepted by tax service and treasury. What Has Happened Today? The villagers rent the land. I was already approaching Anatoly Stepanovich on this issue, renting the land. If he was a pensioner, his money had been returned to him as leased land and returned through the post office. Today it was found, it was a decree, Decree on Income Tax No. 1392 of 26.12.1992. On April 17, 2002, the government treasury order number 12, which launched the system today: the income tax is withdrawn, then it goes through treasury, then through the village council, and to that poor peasant girl, and they're all pensioners, it doesn't come. It's been almost a year, and there's no way to get it. I would ask, or somehow all these documents, to agree with the two services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u67	A black man from the procedure, Vladimir Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u68	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the bill needs to be adopted. This is a step forward in land management. But there is one question that is not clearly stated. And I'd like that to go into the transcript. This is a question of an objective valuation of the cost of the lease, of the estimated cost of the land on which the rent is fixed, and of a lease agreement. If we don't write this out clearly, it's going to be a major breach. Because this is the main issue of this bill. And the issue of land quality control and property quality. Otherwise, there may be a deterioration in the condition of this object. And if no controls and sanctions are provided, it will again be harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, consider the matter. Anatoly Stepanovich, please, 30 seconds, Danilenko. It's a closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Today, we are considering changes to the applicable Land Rental Law. And there's no question of land secession. The issue is the efficient and quality use of land resources, the preservation of complete land complexes. Therefore, the request of the national deputies and the request of the national deputies to make their own proposals. The law is really designed for social protection, for economic formation, and for the support of economic operators. It's absolutely necessary. Therefore, I would like to ask for the support of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Land Rental Act has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion that took place today. The draft Law on Creditor Claims and Load Registration is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Ukrainian National Deputy Kaputin Viktor Volodymyrovich. If possible, let's put it this way: 5 for a bill, 5 for an answer to a question, a report for 5 minutes and 5 minutes and a discussion for 10 minutes. Is there no objection? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u72	I'll try to talk as soon as possible. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You have before you Bill 2336 on the provision of creditors' claims and the registration of burdens. According to the authors of this bill, it is extremely important for the development of our country’s banking system and the entire market for banking services. In order to understand the importance of this law, to determine what role it can play in our country’s banking system, we need to ask ourselves two questions and answer them: Have there been any progress in the development of our banking system in recent years? And the second question is, are we satisfied with the banking system at this time? I think any unbiased person can say that the progress of our banks is quite noticeable. Over the past four years, there's been a lot of evidence that the assets have increased, the loan portfolio has improved, there's other changes, there's positive changes in the development of our banks' system. But at the same time, any unbiased person will say that we're completely dissatisfied with the state of the banking system now and the impact on our economy that's happening on our banks. What the main negatives are now. First. These are, of course, high interest rates on loans. Over the past few years, perhaps even in the last year, percentages have fallen, of course, from 35 percent on average to 20 percent. But still, 20 percent is too much to make large investment loans for a long term. Unfortunately, another flaw in our banking system is the short deadline for issuing loans. There are very few investment loans. And this, of course, is not enough to upgrade our economy, our industry and our agriculture. There is a similar problem with the difficulty of drawing up credits. There is no reliable pledge. Inadequately, bank loans go to the real economy. And of course, the banking system is relatively weak, relative to even our neighbors, Russia, Poland and other countries. The reasons for such a situation are, of course, many. They can be talked about, analyzed for a very long time, but I'd like to list just a few of them that have a bearing on this law that I'm now presenting. To a large extent, this refers to the lack of reliable lenders. High credit risk. In fact, the lack of collateral rights of creditors is a very serious reason to raise interest on those risks, in fact reflecting the risks that banks have by lending. The complexity of the flag. Insufficient information about the borrowers and their burdens. The law that has been developed by a team of authors that you care about, if it does not eliminate these problems, at least makes them much easier to solve. In fact, this law is very simple, and it boils down to two basic points. First. This is a major simplification for creditors in the realization of their mortgage rights. The other one. It's about creating a government register and registering loads. The current bailout system is in fact absurd in many of its moments, and banks are virtually unable to implement their mortgage rights or implement them for years, which in fact leads to very high credit risks and higher interest rates. In fact, this situation makes the financial market opaque, unpredictable. And the result is the financial market situation that we have today. And it's also very important that reliable information about the lenders is actually being made by keeping a load register, and it's very important for the bank to make decisions about lending one or the other customers. We are confident that the adoption of this law will result in serious positive effects on the banking market. Of course, this will lead to a reduction in the risk of lending. In fact, this will lead to an expansion of the banking market, a reduction in interest on loans, a simplification of the credit system. To facilitate the implementation of the pledge and to increase the liability of the borrowers for the loans they take. This is actually our goal, the goal of the creators of this law, and we think that by adopting this law we are achieving this goal. So we ask the people's deputies to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u73	Please sign up for the question. Hinzburg Olga. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u74	Hinzburg, 161 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Victor Volodymyrovich, in my Konotap, who you know a little bit, the Citybank was like that. He's broken up. Now I'm dealing with the problems of my voters at the Bank of Ukraine, and it's very important to me whether this law that you're talking about right now, if it were before, could it have been that the problem that arose with the Bank of Ukraine and the Citybank might not have been? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u75	You know, I think the problems that have arisen in their time with the Citybank and the Bank of Ukraine don't have a direct bearing on the bill that we're discussing right now. I think the banking policy itself, the financial policy of these banks, at least the Citybank, was definitely very risky. As for the Bank of Ukraine, there were other questions that you certainly know about. It's a huge number of agricultural loans that haven't been returned, which have also been issued at great risk and so on. I mean, it was an unbalanced financial policy of these two banks. But in the case of this law, we believe that this law reduces risks. I mean, it's designed to make the banks even more reliable. For them to exist more confidently, they could more confidently exercise their rights as creditors in terms of the implementation of the pledge.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u76	Vladimir Cherniak. Next Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u77	Dear reporter! Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. In my opinion, perhaps the most important novelty of the bill is the question of responsibility. But I feel that this question is not solved enough. How do I increase the responsibility for lending and repaying loans? It's not just about the financial risks, is it? Undoubtedly, there is in this area of activity, in the banking system, and the essence of crime. We know in advance that they're lending loans that won't be returned, large-scale abuse in this area, and how do we prevent these abuses from lending, and how do we increase the liability for repayments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u78	You know what you're talking about right now, and the situation you're describing right now is actually a criminal situation and it's outside of this law. If a bank, or a banker, or a bank manager issues loans under bribes, under some kind of "return," as we say, it's a criminal code that needs to be tackled, of course, at the level of responsibility, the criminal level of responsibility in fact. It's a crime, just like any other crime in the economic sphere or outside the economic sphere, it has to be punished under the Ukrainian Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u79	Please, Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u80	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I have a specific question for you. Article 11 third paragraph: Property held in common compatible property may be burdened in a contractual order only by the consent of compatible owners. Questions. District municipal property belongs to every citizen who lives in the area. How will the standard of this article be fulfilled? First question. The other one. How will a standard be fulfilled that obliges the obligation of insurance and possession to be exercised. responds to Article 10 on loan collateral. Who's going to pay if it's the combined property of the municipal city and district communities. How will this mechanism be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u81	In my opinion, any property at all should have its owner, it's a fundamental question. If municipal property belongs to hundreds, thousands of people, yes, or tens of thousands of people, in fact for a bank, for any bank to take this communal property on bail, without actually being able to then realize its rights as a custodian as a creditor, there is actually a huge risk. I don't think this property is just going to be held hostage by banks, which means that the moment you're talking about, about the implementation of this bond, it's just not going to exist, and that means the insurance of this property is not actually going to exist. So in terms of municipal property, I think banks will be very careful to take this property.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u82	Okay, thanks. Have a seat, please. A break of 30 minutes is announced. After the break, Demjohin Vladimir Anatoliyovich will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meeting. We are discussing the draft law on creditor requirements and the registration of burdens. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u84	Honourable Gennadi Andreevich, distinguished colleagues of the People's Deputies, our Economic Policy Committee considered on 4 March this year a bill on the provision of creditors' requirements and the registration of burdens, which was submitted by the people's deputies Burjak, Kaputin, Tsusko and others. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill on first reading as a basis for its further elaboration in preparation for second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that the bill can also be adopted as a basis for first reading, taking into account comments and proposals made. This bill is essential and is aimed at improving the legal environment of creditors and investors and providing them with additional mechanisms for dealing with debtors. The main part of the bill provides for the establishment of a State inventory of property burdens, which is intended to register rights to property, in particular movable and immovable property, as well as the priority of creditors'rights to or right to certain property. As a result, creditors will be able to determine the real legal status of the assets under which loans will be issued and thus reduce the risk of their activities. In addition, the draft under consideration is proposed to amend the six existing codes of Ukraine and seven laws. In connection with the establishment of a new mechanism defining the system and the manner in which the debtor's credit resources are provided and the necessary conditions for their return to creditors. It should be noted that one of the main shortcomings of the bill is, in our view, the lack of a relationship between the State Register of Burdened Property and the Single Register of Prohibitions on the Disposal of Real Property and the Register of Property Rights, which is currently maintained by Minusto. Well, this deficiency can be easily remedied when preparing for the second reading of the bill, taking into account the information on the bill under consideration for the registration of immovable property and taking into account the provisions of the Civil Code. We ask for support for the Committee's decision to adopt a draft law on first reading as a basis for further elaboration in preparation for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Will there be questions? Oh, no? Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear reporter, I agree with the many positions that you have expressed, but you did not tell me how the committee is planning to get out of a situation where there are two registers alongside the creation of a single state registry that you spoke about and the prohibitions on the alienation and rights of property that are in the Ministi, and how do you feel about the proposal of an expert office to divide from two issues, from two constituents of the State Register of Real Estate Rights, in which you would necessarily register the burdens of this property that are provided for by this law, and the State Register of Real Estate Rights? This is exactly what the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is referring to in compliance with legislation. I mean, how to divide it and not kill one child, leave it, I mean, the right child. And leave other questions to be settled. Not for the sake of others. And how do you feel about bringing the draft to the Constitution, including the 47 Constitution and the Civil Code? I mean, article 250 of the Civil Code, I mean moving out of the apartment that's supposed to be here. Well, please, I'd like to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. I have already replied in my statement that this is the most significant flaw in this bill, this ratio of those registration proposals is burdened by the existing systems that Minuest is running today. I think it will be possible to work together in such a consistent manner. First, taking into account the proposals that are now contained in the law on the registration of immovable property. We supported the bill on the committee. And in principle, the Scientific and Expert Management's proposal that there might be two registration systems. On the one hand, within the framework of the law on the registration of immovable property, which is currently under consideration in the Supreme Council, and on the other hand, the second part is the registration of movable property. The Committee supports such proposals. The question of how to register housing, as eviction procedures in implementation, is a rather complex one. This needs to be addressed in more detail in the light of all the comments made by the People's Deputies and the Scientific and Expert Office. I think they can be overcome by all these disagreements by second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u88	Okay. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is Carmazin. Next one's Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", Party of Fatherland Defenders, "Solidarity." Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are considering today, introduced by a group of national deputies, is certainly very important. And I agree with the many suggestions that have been made today. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the inadequacies in this code, in this law. And I'm going to be removed, which is conceptually correct. I believe that the cancellation of the need for a notary certificate for insurance contracts with real estate is contrary to the rules of the Civil Code and is in particular contrary to article 579 of the Code, under which the pledge agreement is subject to notary certification. Moreover, article 19 of the project provides for the right to satisfy the security requirements of the insured person regardless of whose property the security is held. So it was alienated. And that contradicts the article, the same draft article 7th. It can't be supported, and it can be scary, the social consequences can have for people, for the people of Ukraine, what is provided is essentially the unreserved eviction of persons living in living quarters, the new owner, who received this property as a result of its realisation when he was brought to it, as proposed in article 22 of the project. I believe that there is a direct violation of article 47 of the Constitution, according to which no one can be forced to be deprived of his or her residence otherwise than on the basis of the law and the decision of the court. What we're doing right now is adding to the legal vacchanal to add and that kind of thing is definitely unacceptable. So I'm talking to the developers, I'm going to the committee, and I'm going to have to pay immediate attention to that. There is also the question that before a project that is given an unjustified advantage to lenders of collateral burdens, compared to other creditors, it is primarily before employees of the borrower. I believe that this bill can be adopted in the first reading, but conceptually reconcile these issues with projects, with laws and, in particular, with the rules of the Civil Code, this law cannot contradict the Civil Code. And what's more, I'm paying attention to the developers and the fact that you can't make any changes to the Civil Code that are supposed to be there. What's more, it has to be written down by the Committee of Legal Policy, now it's a mission not only to this committee, but also to the Committee of Legal Policy, because every intervention in the Civil Code is an eye surgery, it's very difficult and very dangerous for society. I would ask that this is how we approach this bill and the Civil Code. Any changes only through the Legal Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u90	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, please. Next Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u91	People's Honourable Chosen Ones! Despite the positive changes, the banking system is far from fully performing its core function of lending to the real sector. We are faced with the need to bridge the gap between the banking system and the real sector of the economy. This is a difficult, promising question, but we have to take steps in this direction. The main task is to ensure access to credit by reducing the interest rate, refinancing rates, moving from short-term loans to long-term loans, investment loans, reducing the high risk of issuing loans and finally reducing the difficulty of making a pledge and implementing it. It is precisely in this last direction that a bill is proposed to improve the banking system. It deals with two main issues that are the subject of this bill. First. It's a simplification of the question of how to form and implement the pledge. And the second question is to create a state load register. I mean, it's the mortgage rights of banks in dealing with the borrower. Here's the specific subject of the bill: Bank mortgage rights in dealing with the debtor. I share the view of the committee, which I also work on, that the bill should be supported in the first reading, that it should be worked on in the process of preparing for second reading, because it is a step in the right direction. Of course, it doesn't solve all the problems, it's a palate, but it's a step in the right direction. In particular, we need to reconcile the issues of the registers that we have: a load register, a register of ownership rights, a register of alienation bans. If we reconcile these issues, I think the law will win. Well, maybe not only in this bill, but in the hope that there will be no contradictions between registers, there will be no duplicate. And another question is the question of increasing responsibility. I think it's our mission to have a mechanism of responsibility in every legal process for violating it and a supervisory function of the Supreme Council that we don't do effectively enough. Responsibility for lending and responsibility for repaying loans. Responsibility administrative, property, financial, criminal. When this home-grown sword of responsibility hangs over those who lend it, over those who take it, those who don't pay it, over those who don't, over those who owe it, then our laws will work more effectively. This bill, I think, can and should be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u92	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u93	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the law is, of course, necessary, but I, first of all, want to ask, do we have a register of state property today? None. Only this year will the State Property Fund do so. Is there a law governing public property? No, accepted in the first reading, the second year stalls because it is not convenient for this active authority today to have the executive power of the Cabinet of Ministers be strong. It is more convenient to have boys for beatings that will change, more loyally, and prime ministers and ministers. Do we have lists of municipal property on district, district, city, and rural councils today? Not around. And that's as the head of the Special Monitoring Commission, and I can say that when we held parliamentary hearings on this issue, we talked about this. Today there is a dispute between the BTI and the Ministry of Justice, which will register property rights. Is the law adopted? No, it's not. The law on the transfer of land from state property to public and divisive property, adopted in the first reading until that time, did not conduct any inventory, even a list of private land, and which now belongs to the individual sector in respect of dowry, garages, dams, and so forth. This is not done properly. And what the bill is now proposing is that, first of all, the right to property and the right to return without regulating these documents may be adopted, provided that the Law on the Administration of Public Property, the Municipal Property, is first adopted, so that we can clearly determine who will register the owners: BTI or the Ministry of Justice. If BTI, the relevant archival documentation should be given and recorded. If we're talking about the European choice that the President was talking about in his speech and in his election campaign, he was talking about European choice. Then I have a question, if the land, its registration will be run by government administrations, then I have a question where the President says, to Europe or back to some other country. Why? Since the Law on the Earth Code has been clearly stated, I am no longer talking about the way in which it was accepted here that all the work is done by government administrations. According to the European Charter of Local Self - Government, the Law on Local Self - Rule deals exclusively with councils. And then, if we answer all these questions, this law will work. You can accept it in the first reading if you adopt these bills first and put them into effect, do the property registration functions, and then do the crediting accordingly. I believe such a law is necessary, but after such appropriate standards. The Socialist Party faction will be supported under this condition. Thank you. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u94	Thank you. The question is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday. Draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to Certain Laws of Ukraine on the Protection of the Rights of Creditors. National deputy of Ukraine, Czernovetský Leonid Mihajlovich, reports. Please. In five minutes -- report, three minutes -- answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u95	Honorable Highly Honored People’s Deputies, Listeners, and the Presidium! I would like to ask you to support my bill on amending and supplementing some of Ukraine's laws on the protection of creditors' rights. In fact, I want to tell you that this law is no longer about banks, but it concerns the common sense and, including, the rights of ordinary citizens. What is it? First of all, they're moving in. I work with my colleagues in general on very simple introductions, very simple changes to laws that assert justice. For example. Today, it is virtually impossible to execute a court or executioner's decision because it is necessary for each account to be ordered separately. This is one of the problems raised in this law. The second problem is that today all the property of any, including the people's MP, falls into a tax deposit if at least he didn't accidentally settle with the Power, and that's nonsense. I'm offering a double tax deposit instead of a single one, instead of all the property of any citizen, which concerns millions of our citizens, because if they, for example, have to be paid by utilities or by taxes, then they can just be thrown out of the apartment and all their property goes into a tax deposit. I'm offering. So it's in a double, no more, amount. Then there is the fantastic rule of law adopted in the past Parliament, when all assets transferred to bail must be assessed. This is not the case with creditors; this is the case with the accounts of ordinary people who take credit in the bank. He's taking 50 bracelets, and he's got to pay some other rogue market company a lot of money for the bail. All these provisions of my bill, they are fully supported by the Committee and have no doubt whatsoever. It is not the protection of the rights of banks, it is the protection of the rights of ordinary people in general and of common sense. But most of all, I would like to use the remaining one-and-a-half minutes to tell those who are listening to us that I cannot get my two most important drafts on the prohibition of pornography, which are blocked by the Secretariat, to the last four months of meetings, and to ban tobacco advertising and tobacco products. And I want the audience to know that I need the support of the deputies to finally get these bills into the session hall, and I'm sure you'll vote for it. Well, of course, there's a lot of money behind it, and I don't know where to turn to, well, maybe the United Nations or who? What else to tell and what to prove if, at 12 o’clock on individual central television channels, pornographic films are shown from morning to evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u96	Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u97	And by the way, I'd like to say that you're one of the opponents of getting this law into a session hall, because once I'm addressing some kind of law on pornography or banning tobacco advertising, there are five more laws that are trying to contradict my law and that are actually lubricating what I'm proposing. Dear People's Deputies, I will take you more seriously. I don't know what I'm gonna do: break the microphone or climb into the rostrum until those bills are put in place. But it's very serious and I'm serious. And whoever's listening to our broadcast today, they're about to witness some demarches, because I have to protect not only my constituents, but my rights as a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u98	Leonid Mikhailovich, your time is up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u99	My bills of pornography are not brought to normal attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u100	Where did you go? There's a question. Leonid Mikhailovich, please, on the rostrum. Please sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u101	Let us talk more about pornography and the prohibition of alcohol and tobacco. And those who are in the hall today, ask me questions, because, come on. Go further.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u102	Turn off the microphone, please. Please, Olga Hinzburg. The next one is Carmazine. Carmazine, please. Next one's Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Our Ukraine, Solidarity. Your Honor, I generally support your law. True, I want to ask you why you made that exact name or you don't see a contradiction in the title with the content of the law. I mean protecting the rights of creditors, although more is involved in protecting the rights of debtors. You think it's about changing the articles you make in the law on enforcement. Once again, you propose to change the names. Or you might change your mind not to throw away the foundation that's supposed to be here. And I fully support your fair thoughts about advertising, about banning tobacco, alcohol, and all that. And I point out that the Secretariat is really blocking these issues. That's why we're here showing solidarity with the Solidarity Group. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u104	We've got a hearing to do. Tell me, you're like a man who understands me. Well, what am I supposed to do? I don't even know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u105	Leonide Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u106	Well, that's outrageous. That's it. And I'm not going to deal with it. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u107	Answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u108	I want to answer the question this way. The law on pornography must be put in place here in the near future. Because our children watch dirty pornographic and cheap movies from the West. And the tobacco ban law and we're the only country in Europe that's still advertising tobacco and alcohol. And I'm asking you to keep me posted on this. As far as the laws are concerned. So I think the very name of the law that I'm proposing to protect the rights of creditors is not attractive to most deputies, especially communists who don't like creditors, but they love the receivables. But my face, I think, will change everything in the rostrum, and they will vote as they should. Because in fact you're absolutely right: this law applies to more receivables than creditors. And I'm not suggesting anything unfair in that sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u109	Please, Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u110	Well, if they put me up, at least they'll give me their word, you'll vote for us to move to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u111	Exclusive, please, microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear reporter, can your bill be viewed as a step towards liberalizing credit policies in Ukraine and more free access to credit? That's the first one. And the second. Do you think there is a balance between creditors and debtors in your law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u113	Highlight a very important feature. So they turn off the microphone, so they turn it on. That's what it means. All my bills, they're first-hand anti-corruption, because today's executive department of the Ministry of Justice are total bribes, they're taking bribes from morning to night. And as long as I haven't addressed the minister, he hasn't responded yet, unfortunately, to a few deputies, well, let the people listen, which include these very ones. And that's really more access. Wait for the water, support me so that we can hear pornography today because I can even see a person. Well, where to go from now on, tell me. Or declare a hunger strike.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u114	Your time is up, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u115	No, wait, ask me more questions, because that's interesting too.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u116	Have a seat, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u117	How is it exhausted? Look, don't ask those questions, it'll be a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u118	I want to read you a story called "regulatory." Leonide Mikhailovich, a story about the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Listen, please. Article 3.3.9. The speaker should speak only on the subject from which he was given the word. Have a seat, please. Corresponding to the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Kaputsin Viktor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! I'm not pornography, but I'm still talking about the Creditors' Rights Act. Although what happens to the protection of creditors ’ rights is definitely pornography. Twice now, we are talking about the protection of creditors ’ rights, and it must be so painful that something needs to be done and solved somehow. If the first law I reported there an hour ago applies to more banks, that law really applies to the non-banking relationship between debtors and creditors and debtors. I think Leonid Mikhailovich has stopped in quite detail in the first part of his report on this bill, and therefore there is no point in further developing his thoughts on this law and other laws that he was referring to today. Yet, when the committee considered it, of course, we came out of the postulate that this issue must be settled legally, and all voted unanimously in favour of supporting it in the first reading of what I propose to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u120	Will there be questions? Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the conversation. The word is Carmazin. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! We have so much pornography in our lives that I would like to go back to the bill. The bill contains provisions to improve legislation on enforcement, amendments to several documents are proposed: the Law on Enforcement, the Code of Conduct, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Law on Businesses in Ukraine, and they need to be discussed. In particular, I had asked a question by name. I think the name has to be changed because the Law on Order changes. The payment of taxpayers’ obligations to budgets and government trust funds relating to the establishment of the maximum amount of the tax charge in general can be supported, but the taxpayer is a State, and the taxpayer, whose interests Mr. Chernewsky is now offering, is in the taxpayer’s debt. So these changes are designed to protect the debtor's interests, not the creditor's, so this just completely explains the change in the name of the law. You have to remove what's written in parentheses about the protection of the creditor's rights. The other one. With regard to changes to the law on enforcement. I believe that the proposed changes to article 3 of the law, which proposes replacing decisions that are subject to the execution of documents that are subject to the execution of the State executive service, will be contrary to common sense because the implementing documents are made on the basis of decisions. The basis is the decision. And the Constitution provides decisions on civil matters that are enforceable. Therefore, it is the decision of the court in a civil case, not an executive letter, that should stand, to stand as a basis. Next. If you analyze the bill and the amendments to the law on enforcement, there are also. No, it does not call for some changes and ideas that are being made. Changes to the enterprise law. Article 34 of this Law prohibits the liquidation of enterprises as determined by its owner when there are liabilities owed to creditors in excess of the amount needed to break the bankruptcy case. This should be governed by article 110 of the new Civil Code, which states that, if the value of a legal person's property is not sufficient to satisfy the creditors' demands, this legal person is eliminated in the order established by the Act on Recovery of Payments or Recognition of bankruptcy. And so we need to eliminate the contradictions that are with the Civil Code, and only then will this law be normal. There is no danger of acceptance in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u122	Vladimir Cherniak, next is Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u123	Dear National Deputies! Liberalization in our country has gone a long way of liberalizing prices and trade, and it needs to go a way of liberalizing wages and credit policies. And it's this bill that we're looking at right now that we can put into this broad context -- the context of the liberalisation of credit policy. And to do that, we need to ensure the rights of both creditors and debtors and to ensure a balance of rights. I think that we often sin in our legislative activities by failing to balance rights, responsibilities, and balance the rights of different parties. In this case, the balance of creditors' and debtors' rights is concerned. And this bill is just an attempt to take a step in the direction of solving this problem. In particular, it deals with such extremely relevant issues as executive conduct, commitment repayment, tax evasion, and an assessment of the pledge. So that's the kind of question that's very painful right now when it comes to the practical issues of lending and returning loans. In particular, I would like to draw your attention to the issue of failure to comply with court decisions. This is where the emphasis is placed on the need to create an appropriate and effective mechanism for the execution of court decisions. I remember when people came to visit me in the district, complaining that it was very difficult to reach a court decision. But it is even more difficult to enforce a court decision. This is actually Ukrainian know-how. I remember telling an American that we didn’t have court decisions, he had a jaw, and he looked at me for a minute, and he couldn’t understand what I was saying to him. How can it be that the decisions of the courts are not being carried out? We do this every day and every day. So it's very important that the bill proposes to design a mechanism for the execution of court decisions. In particular, credit, debt, and debt. I share the view that the bill can be adopted in the first reading and, in preparing for the second reading, reconciled with the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u124	Thank you. Mihovich Ivan Ivanovich. You don't? Let us conclude our consideration of the matter. The vote will take place on Thursday. The draft Act on the Excise Congregation is submitted for consideration. The committee's proposing to take 3017 down, right? Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking has instructed me to submit to you the Act on Excise Collection, which was submitted to me as the author. In fact, the author of this law means that he is a member of the Supreme Council of the past, who tried and adopted the Tax Code on first and second reading. Section 5 of this Tax Code, our committee has decided that the Tax Code will try to take part. We passed the Act on Excise Assembly, where we took the theoretical part of the Tax Code and proposed it as a law. The next part of the excise unit is the Act on the rate of excise duty on the goods we accept. In this connection, two bills were passed, a bill that I am the first author of, Deputy Tsusko, and a bill that was passed by colleagues Kaputsin and Remaruk. At the committee meeting, both laws were considered, and because of the difference between them, the Excise Collection Bill, which was adopted as part of the Tax Code, provided that the legislation would introduce excise duty rates. Could be specific, i.e. fixed, what we have today when a certain amount is recovered from the price of a particular commodity. It can be ad valorem, i.e. interest rate, what was in Ukraine before 1995 and can be mixed. That's basically the difference between these laws. As the law that I represent covers, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading and allow the other deputies to amend their taxes. And I see that before the trial, the deputies came forward and said that there would be many amendments before the second reading. The Committee's proposal is, therefore, to adopt it on first reading so that we can work on the excise unit as part of the Tax Code. There is a controversial question, others say you need it right away with the rates. If we put out the bills as the theoretical part right now, we've only brought out the theoretical part of the excise collection if we put the alcohol, the tobacco, the cars, we're going to crash, it's not going to work. The Committee's proposal is, therefore, to adopt it on first reading so that each of you can submit, take advantage of its legislative initiative, set up a working group, complete it until second reading and adopt it as part of the Tax Code. Thank you. I've finished my report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u126	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Lighten up. Kalinczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u127	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Vassil Petrovich, considering the requirements of the Budget Code in part of the Excise Congregation Review Procedure is certainly positive. And you have to agree with that. But I have two questions. First. In accordance with the bill, the subject of taxation is the subject of taxation. However, the object of taxation should be not directly a commodity but a transaction with the product. For example, its implementation. That's the first question. The second question. The adoption of the bill does not reject, as you yourself said, the necessity of adopting the tax code and carrying out a comprehensive tax reform. So is it appropriate to adopt the bill before adopting the Tax Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u128	Vassili Antonovich, I'll start with the second question. Thank you for asking. I said it was part of the Tax Code. Attempts to convene the past, and we were in it with you, to adopt the Tax Code as a whole, have not been successful. And I'm sure it won't work either. But at least the opinion of the members of our committee is that it will be adopted in part by the Tax Code. A separate law, as adopted by the Income Act, the next is profit from citizens, the next is VAT, excise duty separately. And then the administrative department. We offered to cut out the excise. You got it. I'm not saying I'm the author. In fact, we took the fifth section of the Codex adopted in two readings and submitted it as a bill. True, the part where the bets are turned down. Because if we do now. Bill at the same rate for alcohol, tobacco, cars and so on. You know how many interests are affected. We'll never accept it. That's the answer to that question. Next. Vassili Antonovich, always subject to taxation, was a particular commodity. Alcohol, tobacco, and its price. It's not a turn. The turnover is already VAT. We've always had it as a VAT option, it's not an excise tax, it's actually a turnover tax. The price of the cargo. Well, maybe the second reading, we'll take it into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u129	Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u130	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. Dear Vasili Petrovich, you are right, I agree with you that if we pass this whole block now, we will just get dirty and there will be very many possible moments that will not allow this law to be passed, I will not comment. I would just like to hear your opinion, because we are working on this topic, we are preparing some bills to develop this topic of alcohol and tobacco. Excise fees are a sufficient means to date and a method to ensure that the funds we might receive from such a type of goods are made available to the budget. Some countries have embarked on the implementation of monopolies for this type of goods. Some countries have embarked on a monopoly on production. We're on our way to the excise assembly today. Is that sufficient, in your view, at all, as the Committee sees the prospect of developing this type of goods, since everyone is well aware that a source that could generate income from this type of goods is yet to be exhausted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u131	So I'll answer that. As long as we have free trade zones and other forms of benefits, excise duties can be accepted and increased, this is already the first year's work on these laws, only taking into account the factor of the neighbourhood with Moldova, Belarus and Russia. And, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Otherwise. We've reached today, remember, with you and I, we've reduced the excise to no-filter cigarettes. And today we have reached 99 per cent of the excise collection payment, 99 per cent. According to alcohol, the law we passed with you in October has now allowed for growth. You know why? And we've introduced a alcohol bill. The way Ukraine has gone is, let's say, alcohol is a monopoly on alcohol. That monopoly that you're talking about, provided that there's a complete order in the country, and you know what it means, corruption and everything else could exist. In our system, the only thing we're holding a monopoly on alcohol today is alcohol and what we've introduced with you. Interesting statistics are already in the course of January and February, with increasing legalization. There's nothing to do. You don't want to pay. The only thing we've done is run you and I in October all kinds of crime-related alcohol fraud. I mean, it's just for criminality. In principle, you can gradually achieve what you say. But if we work out these mechanisms, we suggest our committee. Connect to the second reading. Let's work it out. That's how it's gonna stand. You could say we have to work out, but we'll work it out. That's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u132	Mikola Rudzkowski. And we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u133	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear reporter! I've read your law, we've had a discussion with you on this. You're offering a perspective, if we're going to adopt this law, you're going to introduce a floating rate depending on the price of tobacco choices. I don't know what you're What's the point? What if tobacco products, let's say there, cost a bracelet, it'll be smaller, we'll talk, excise. If they cost three bracelets, it'll be bigger. It's nothing more than a direct stimulus to the consumption of low-quality tobacco choices. And I think it's a disgraceful practice if the Supreme Council supports this, because that's how we encourage mortality among Ukrainians. Me. I don’t care how many people smoke, but how much harm it will do to my health. Bad tobacco elections. Products will do more harm to your health, and you know it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u134	Dear Nikolai Nikolaevich, I report to you. Our committee has knowingly divided the tax unit of the Tax Code into two parts: the general theoretical unit, where we provide for the authorization of all forms of excise collection specific, fixed, ad valorem, percentage, mixed. It is already in the interest of the budget when we adopt excise duty laws. As far as smoking is concerned. Then the calculations will show that today the firms that produce cigarettes and sell over 5 bracelets, we stimulate them, they get above-priced. Firms that sell less than 5 bracelets pay higher taxes. It's already a matter of what the budget wants. As for me and the fuck, he didn't smoke any cigarettes in his life. I advise you not to smoke, and everyone else, quit smoking, and we'll go on export. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u135	Time's up, please sit down. Kaputin Viktor Vasilovich. So are you filming your bill or not, with Remaruk? You're filming. Okay. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is Carmazin, the next is Konovaluk Valerius Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u136	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenge before us is: Do we need the Tax Code at all? Or maybe we could take it this way, like Comrade Tsuko now, the other national MPs, take it over the blocks and put it on the blocks, and then we could patch it up. I think that this approach is conceptually wrong, one that I don't think should be followed, deserves honour that now alternative project 3017-1 by Remarucoma has been introduced and Kaputin has not been reported and is thus called off by the authors, so I understand for myself. I think the Tax Code needs to be adopted now, we need to find a negotiated solution here and not just throw out the positions that apply to excise. The State cannot continue without the Tax Code. When I proposed this eight years ago, they laughed at me and said, “What tax code? It's been six years, that's enough time to understand this to the President. I want everyone in Ukraine to understand that the Tax Code is necessary and that the adoption of this law, which is proposed, will not solve the problems, or, more importantly, drive these problems further, that is, it will not allow the overall issue of stability to be resolved. If I speak on a specific specific bill, which it foresees, I have now reported, what doubts do I have about it? I do not agree that the object of taxation should be goods directly, not those transactions with it, or implementation. Once again, the answer you gave from this rostrum about what it means to have added value tax is not the answer at all. We have to forget in this room what the value added tax is. When we forget about this room, what it is, and now you've voted on my request to the Prime Minister to invalidate the value added tax on the rent that we all pay, and pay Ukrainian citizens, the sooner we forget, the better. I believe that the introduction of an annual index of excise duty rates will make it difficult for the shareholders of the excise congregation to do business, because there will be no stability, these rates will change, they will not be able to take forward, they will not be able to plan their economic activities. And I think that this law needs to be worked out where it was, in the fifth chapter of the Tax Code in that group that, if not, let's do parliamentary hearings on changes to the Tax Code. It's worth spending a day and two days on it. And this law, I don't think, has to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u137	The word is given to Konovaluku Valerija Illihu. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u138	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! I believe that this issue should be addressed everywhere by the possibility of filling the State budget and addressing the many issues that have accumulated in Ukraine. Key documents. that determine the essence of the excise assembly and the order of its collection, is still the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 1992 and the Act on the Excise Congregation for Alcoholic Drinks and Tobacco Products. Both copyright initiatives differ little from each other conceptually. With a great deal of subjectivity, the bill of the national MP Tsushka can be considered more acceptable. In doing so, we need to determine that we still need to consider some of the principles involved. The internal structure of the document can be greatly improved by introducing the terms of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers from the law in the application of the bill of terminology. In view of the fact that the Excise Congregation after VAT is the second most significant collection of public budget taxes, which remains a significant possibility of tax evasion for this congregation, the legislative base in the field of the production of excise goods needs to be filled with new content. The effective administration of the excise congregation requires greater attention to the shadow market of alcohol, the legislative establishment of risk standards, its methods of measuring it, the review of a number of shortcomings in existing legislation that affect not only subjects, but also the authorities of the state. Yes, there is a need for a minor finalization of the Law on State Alcohol Control in the Market, an alcohol market in which it is necessary to bring it into the legislative plane. This is primarily the introduction of holographic excise stamps for alcohol and tobacco products as a factor in minimizing the counterfeiting of excise stamps. The President’s political wishes as expressed in the President’s decree of December 27 on the introduction of a monopoly on the production of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products should also be taken into account. A broad discussion needs to be made about the possibility of using a mechanism to quota the production of alcohol and to move to a single excise duty rate because the presence of alcohol duty for the manufacture of medicinal products and perfumed products contributes to the non-target use of alcohol. The parity of the conditions of competition within the European Union also requires adjustment of the approaches for the management of excise collection towards the adjustment of rates to the minimum European level, etc. Finally, in this connection, it is most reasonable to adopt the bill of the national MP Tsushka in the first reading. Bring together those very principles of the position proposed by another author of the legislative initiative and, indeed, create conditions for us to have an increase in the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u139	Thank you. The word is given to Paul. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u140	Julia Tymoshenko's faction, Hmelnicki, Fatherland's Party. Dear friends, I want to say literally a few words at the beginning, so everyone understands, because I've learned from some of the speeches that not everyone understands what Excise is. Your Honor, excise is one of the types of indirect taxes. The VAT is a universal excise duty that goes on everyone. Here, let me get this straight. Now I'm going to say about the SAT right now. There's one thing that he doesn't understand and doesn't want to understand, and it's said that he doesn't take into account -- there are different tax systems. There are direct taxes and not direct taxes. Excises refer to indirect taxes. World statistics show that the more indirect taxes, the more the shadow economy, and the smaller the congregation. Thus, countries such as the United States, Japan, have refused, and they have a basic tax, not an indirect tax, but a direct tax. And they give all the money to the population as a salary, and then they take the wages as direct taxes -- and there's no shadow economy. That's for us to understand. So when we go to the SATs, we have to take the systems into account. They have this little indirect sales tax, and once we put it up, we're going to have another system, we're going to fall completely. So you don't have to be stupid and just sign SOT-harmonization. You have to first harmonize the tax system, then everything else, not the excise. I'm just trying to make that clear. And because this law is framed, as the reporter said, theoretically, you have to be clear and clear, so in terms of termina, you have to introduce the concept and what excise is. This is once. On the other hand, as in all the countries of the world that have just developed, excise duties should be clearly and clearly divided into their own goods and excise duties on imported goods. These are different things. Because Rímarczuk and his coauthor, Kaputin, offered transportation. Yeah. Divide what we produce, in our own country, without excise, and what we import, with excise, and then it'll be as normal as in the developed countries of the world. And what I'm saying is, if it's theoretical, that's a different number. They want us all in two groups. Now, in the "Classification" section, it's just not correctly spelled out, it says what "acquisitions" is, you have to, there's no idea how to collect. So I would suggest you write it the way you should do it, which is unique to a group, differentiated, well, and you could say medium or mixed. And then what it is. And then it's going to be a classification. So if theoretically, there has to be a bill to the end and write it all down. Well, at the end of the day, since specific figures are not written, you need a chapter on "The Specialities of Excise Congregations There's Tobacco Products and Alcoholic Drinks to Dump, and those parts just fit. And since it was about marking, it was by chance that two figures were taken from the law that was passed on to alcoholic beverages. So these numbers have to be thrown out, then everything will be clear and clear. So I want to accept it in the first reading, work on it, and not be afraid. And from the law that was taken, there's this very clever thought in Kaputin. It needs to be taken here, that when our government signs contracts, we have to take this system into account, and that's where the phrase allows us to take that into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u141	Please follow the Rules. The next Jebrowsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u142	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, this issue needs to be addressed in terms of budget filling, reducing the shadow market and smuggling, and increasing the quality of excise goods. All we have to do is adopt laws that meet these three criteria. We need to identify ourselves, and we need to identify, perhaps not just as much in terms of the bill as conceptually determine the Tax Code, tax policy, including excise policy. In this regard, I have three doubts that I want to express here and that we need to make in order to make the right decisions. First. In what way should we walk, in what way do we want to walk in this matter? Or by monopolies, by introducing a monopoly on production, by implementing these products. Or by introducing excise duties on alcohol products, tobacco products. That's the first one. And indeed, in civilized countries, it is usually not the way to introduce as many excise duties as possible, the indirect taxes that have already been mentioned. And to give direct taxes and then take them to the budget. The second question. Should we adopt this bill before adopting the Tax Code? I've already said it, and I want to say it with the opportunity. Failure to accept the Tax Code thus far is a crime of the Supreme Council. I am not inclined to accuse the Supreme Council, and I believe that there are many unfounded accusations. We must protect Parliamentaryism, Parliament and everything else. But we have no excuse for delaying and delaying the adoption of the Tax Code. This is evidence that there are interested people who want to catch fish in calamute water and do not want to adopt the Tax Code. So the question is, Should we not adopt a bill? Shouldn't we focus on adopting the Tax Code, where it's all written and accepted, and resolving these issues on a reliable, systemic, promising basis, not by breaking separate laws? And finally the third question. We now have specific fixed excise duties. And by the way, excise is a government tool. Here, Assadchev and I were sitting, he was just paying attention to this, more government than parliament, just parliament can give the government certain powers where it can use the tool. It's fixed. It is suggested that you enter fixed, mixed or motivated rates. The question is, does this not open up the prospect of an increase in excise rates? Of course, we will make decisions in each particular case, and Tsushko said so. I understand him. But we need to realize that by adopting this bill, we are laying the legal ground for an increase in excise rates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u143	Please, Gerbowski, the next Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u144	65 constituency, "Our Ukraine", Pavel Zebrowski. The bill is quite interesting, quite scrupulous. And after combining the two bills into one, I think the first reading should be adopted. However, I and some of the members of the Health Committee have a question in part that, in our view, we would need an article on "Pedactic products that are not subject to taxation" to introduce an article on what is not a subject of taxation for medical alcohol, which goes to medical institutions, as well as the production of pharmaceuticals. I'll try to explain why this is necessary. I'll try to explain why this is necessary. Well, what is an excise congregation? In other words, it's an extra pleasure tax. Are Medicines Satisfying? Is there a medical alcohol that pursues medical goals, pleasure? They don't show up at all. This is the first necessity. Why is it necessary to introduce this article by name in the article on the excise congregation in the law? Because once again, when we take the rates of the excise congregation and, let's say, by taking one or the other bet, we're going to put on some kind of medical alcohol, we're going to put on some balsam, and we're going to say, this is going to be a drink, and that's why the excise collection on pharmaceuticals and medical alcohol should go, but let's say, from the evil, because most of this medical alcohol goes for good purposes, and we're going to charge extra taxes. It's not possible in any way or in any way. I would like to point out that if there is any, let's say, window through which this medical alcohol enters for other purposes, then this window needs to be eliminated and then, if it's aimed at what it's supposed to be, it shouldn't be handled by an excise assembly from a given group of goods. There is no such excise congregation in most parts of the world. I think we're going to try to negotiate with the Committee on Finance and Banking, and we're going to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Valerius Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u146	Valerius Assadchev, Ukrainian People's Party, Our Ukraine. Dear Chairman! Dear Vassil Petrovich! Now there's only a specific form of excise. This is a certain strategy and a certain policy in carrying out, as it were, this tax. You're proposing a wider instrumentation, which means that it's advocated, it's specific, it's combined. It's a different policy. And then it's clear that you have to change and show, and what you're changing then is that you're changing to an attorney. You're not showing it. So we accept, excuse me, the cat in the bag. So we're giving tools, and what we're going to do with this instrument, we don't know. So let's say the budget committee can't agree with that because it's a certain instability in the income part. Today, we stand to see that our income is predictable, stable. And when you're making tools, not saying what you're going to do with this instrument, and how, I just can't vote for it, because I'm losing. I'm asking you, then show me what goods you're going to trade into an attorney system and what you're going to change into a blend. Then I can say, yes, I support you, if I don't support you. And when you propose to Parliament, let's put it so bluntly, just the theoretical part, and not seeing anything, in practice, I can't support it, because budget committees. Alexander Petrovich, who's doing the income part, yeah, you can't, because we're making an unstable system. So I would suggest, if it doesn't go through, let's say, in the tax code system -- yeah, it's complicated, well, make the only common law, so there's a theoretical part of the excise and there's interest rates. Let's at least see it. But to put a cat in a bag in Parliament and ask him to vote, I don't think I can do that, so I would suggest you do what Katustine did and just delete this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u147	Thank you. The question of this matter has been considered. The vote will take place on Thursday. A draft law on the protection of Ukoopsim's rights for agricultural machinery is proposed for consideration. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Špak Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u148	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! You have been introduced by the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights of Farmers' Consumers. It is designed to regulate the relationship between buyers of agricultural machinery and their sellers and performers of services from the technical service in today's conditions, conditions of various forms of ownership and management. The bill establishes the rights of buyers, determines the mechanisms for implementing their national protection, the duties and responsibility of sellers for the performance of their jobs, services. It reduces the risk of buyers buying insecure cars and provides unskilled services from the technical service. Agricultural manufacturers are encouraged to ensure the reliable operation of their cars during a guaranteed and postwar period of operation. Economic conditions are being created to stimulate, encourage manufacturers of technology to improve its quality, the reality and safety of production, the organization of the network by the firm's technical service, and the buyers by the time they meet the operating and maintenance conditions. It is proposed to establish a procedure for calculating the guaranteed terms of use of technology, the organization of the guarantee service, the procedure for calculating the overall terms of the technical service, the organization of the service, and the rights and responsibilities of the parties. The bill defines the general positions, rights and responsibilities of the buyers of these household machines, the responsibilities and responsibilities of manufacturers, sellers, executives and car buyers, public organizations, the unification of buyers, and the final position. Most attention has been paid to determining the rights of the purchasers of agricultural machinery, their protection, and their duties, and the responsibility of the manufacturers of machinery. The bill identifies certain important terms that enable them to be properly interpreted, such as car safety, service providers, workers, manufacturers, warranty, technical service, buyer, seller, disadvantage, material disadvantages, business subjects, and so forth. The bill submitted is similar to the structure of the current Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act. However, it is not possible to use a valid law or make appropriate changes to it because it applies only to citizens, that is, natural persons, to their rights, to the acquisition of goods for commercial nonproductive purposes. The adoption of the bill does not require additional financial and material costs on the part of the State. Businesses, agricultural manufacturers, have to take steps to improve its quality, reliability, and continuity. The adoption of the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Consumers of Agricultural Machinery will contribute to improving the quality and reliability of agricultural technology, protecting the rights of its buyers, and restoring the technical service infrastructure in rural areas. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u149	Will there be questions? Please sign up. Vladimir Leschchenko, next to Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u150	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vassil Fedorovich, there are now several laws and various regulations that are specifically designed to protect the rights of buyers of agricultural machinery and others. They don't work. Why don't they work, in your opinion? And if we accept this bill that you're proposing, will it then work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u151	Well, there are no defined standards today, so there are no laws on how to regulate relationships and on how to buy agricultural technology as a manufacturing technique, so this is the new law completely and there are new norms for relationships. So this law is going to work. There are defined standards and the order of relationships of such, that is, government structures, executive bodies, such as the State Committee on Standardization and Metrology, which means, in the protection of the committee, the State Committee on Car and Technology, and others. So there goes the population of responsibility in this question. Why aren't they working? Because we still have to raise the responsibility to that question and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u152	Okay. Mikola Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u153	Vasil Fedorovich, please tell me, can this law work on condition that each combine is paid by a farmer for 2,000 tons of wheat, grain? Of course, I understand that this law is absolutely necessary, because the agricultural producer is getting the inadequacy of today's spare parts, the technique, that's right, this law is absolutely necessary. But is it going to work if the price in the market is the same as today, and the farmer who wants to buy the technology in the village can't buy it, and the manufacturer of this technology can't implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u154	Thank you. Today is really a problem, an extremely important problem, it's cost, price policy, the cost of technology. And today if you take a grain harvester, a grain harvester, today the cost of the harvester is somewhere more than a thousand tons of grain. Yes, two are missing, but over a thousand tons of grain. So today, the same combination, today we know what its quality is, more combines of our own production. So today these simple ones are very expensive for the manufacturer. For them, virtually no one can compensate for the cost of this simple technique. So this law regulates these relationships, and it's going to work. Today, the manufacturer’s responsibility for the quality of cars will be increased. And the law is needed in the same way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u155	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u156	Eugene Kirilchuk, Yulia Timoshenko block, Fatherland Party. Dear reporter, how do you view this law foresaw what our neighbors have. For example, there is a 50 - percent loss of technology in Belarus, a 40 - percent loss in Russia. And we've been talking about this for a few years, and our government hasn't offered a penny to spend on technology for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u157	Well, in terms of cost planning, you know that the 2003 budget, the Budget Act, provides for a grant, a 30 percent subsidy on the cost of technology for the manufacturer. But I'd like to explain the other side. Me, for example. I don't exactly support the tech grant today. Subsidies can be made for agricultural production, for production, and the State has to introduce the form of financial leasing. Leasing is a working tool for updating or creating basic means of production. Technology is the main means of production. So today we have to work on the lysing program, the tool that enables you to upgrade the tractor park, the basics on the back, the costs that are constantly working in that direction, not the cost. And in a better form, I think today Russia is still going in our form, in the form that was introduced in Ukraine, in the form of financial lysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u158	Thank you, sit down, please. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u159	Fellow dignitaries, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting, reviewed the draft law on the protection of the rights of buyers of agricultural machinery, which proposes to regulate the relationship between agricultural technicians, performers of their technical services and business subjects, producers of agricultural products. The committee supported the bill and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it in the first reading and accept it as a basis. Although in the first version, I would like to emphasize this, the main scientific and expert office, in its conclusion of 21.11.2002, believes that the first reading of the draft law is to be rejected. But after listening to the authors of this bill, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, at the signature of its leader, Matsuka, writes that the Chief Executive, taking into account the public significance of the product in the project and the need to increase responsibility for the quality of its production, supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of the first reading, taking into account the comments made. I would like to pay attention to some of the features of this bill. First, the bill gives special attention to the issue of the quality of machines produced. And the quality, you have to admit, of the country's technology is not yet at a high level. So of the 131 tractors of the Kharkiv Tractor Plant, 87 or 67 percent had significant technical failures. As a result, the common simple tractors consisted of 1,544 days or 18 days per tractor. A similar picture with the quality of Lanta grain harvesters, Slavotic because of the very unsatisfactory quality of the Lanta grain harvesters produced in 1998, Slavutic 64 needs write-offs, which are submitted to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to emphasize that the depreciation period for grain harvesters is 10 years. According to scientists, the cost of repairs and maintenance increases because of its low quality and insurmountability during the postwar period of agricultural engineering. For technical reasons, simple ones reach more than 50 percent of their working hours. It is also estimated that about 5 million tons of grain are lost each year because of simple harvesting. As has already been pointed out, the cost of one grain harvester exceeds the cost of one thousand tons of grain. The need for the adoption of this law, despite the fact that the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act is in force, is that, firstly, the valid legislation regulates the rights of only natural persons who have acquired domestic technology, and I stress that for non-productive purposes, which is referred to in the conclusion of the Supreme Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill also deals with a very important issue for buyers of legal persons. Secondly, it should be borne in mind that legal persons who purchase technology, equipment and spare parts for them, in Ukraine more than 12,000, and farmers about 40,000. So consumers, as you can see, are quite a lot. At the same time, the number of technicians has also increased considerably. Some of them work, we'll talk directly, under primitive conditions. This affects the quality of the goods. The implementation of the proposed bill, as noted by the author of the bill, does not require additional financial and material costs from the State. We understand, members of the committee, that there is still much work to be done on the bill. But with your help, we hope to resolve this challenge. Please support the bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u160	Will there be questions? Melniczuk, please. Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u161	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I had a question for Vasil Fedorovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this law was long overdue. And there's nothing to discuss, maybe stylistically some issues need to be worked out. I understand those factory directors who are very concerned about what this is going to be. For this reason, Vasil Antonovich, does the bill correspond to what they need today's agrarianism? But please tell me, is everything included in this bill to protect the purchaser?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u162	Thank you for asking. I have to say that the drafters of the bill have done their utmost to take into account all those points in order to protect the buyer of agricultural technology, equipment and spare parts. And this bill was not just done by the authors, but it was done, if you can say so, with scientists, and also directly with those who use this technology, equipment and spare parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u163	Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u164	Yukhnowsky, "Our Ukraine." I wanted to ask you this. This law is indeed the soul’s cry because agricultural technology produced in Ukraine is of very low quality. But this low quality occurs for reasons of very low metal quality, which makes the composite parts into a variety of agricultural techniques. And that's why the law isn't directly responsible for the proper technique. Don't you think the law's not in time? You said yourself that the percentage of bad tractors is 60 percent. The percentage of poor other agricultural vehicles, combines, is 70 percent. So we're going to adopt this law, we're going to limit the import of appropriate agricultural techniques. I realize that such measures are essential, but they will not be decided by that law. This law will not work. He, I think, is out of time, and he can't take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u165	Dear Igor Raphaelovich! My great colleague! You know, you're raising the question perfectly right because, really, the quality of agricultural machinery and equipment depends on the quality of the composite and the quality of the metal. But let's be honest. In Odessa, for example, there's an enterprise like Odessilmash. Who will be concerned about the quality of metal as a way to run this business? Who's going to do this thing to let these lemmings go to plows, so they don't work 300 acres, they work a thousand acres. It's our metallurgy, and we can produce, not irons, but steel and steel stamps so that this product, we can talk about it, and these cars were quality. This is our business. And this bill, I think, is a push for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u166	Okay. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Puzakov. Next Carmazine. We're talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u167	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Under the various forms of property from the technical service, the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights of Consumers of Silgeyman regulates the relationship between buyers, manufacturers and contractors, defines the mechanism for the implementation of the State protection of buyers. The manufacturer must bear full responsibility for the quality of the machine manufactured, be entitled to implement only if the quality of the machine produced meets the requirements of the standards. But if the design of the car changes, the manufacturer must inform the sellers and the buyers. This law, with changes and additions, must certainly be adopted, because it will contribute to improving the quality and reliability of agricultural technology, protecting the rights of its buyers, restoring the infrastructure of technical service on the ground to create new jobs, improving the social infrastructure of the village. But let's be clear about whether the peasants are able to buy the right kind of machine, tractor, plow, light bulb, or combine. How much does a peasant need to sell, let's say, wheat at today's price per tonne, when the cost of one k-701 291 thousand dollars, plough four, silica five thousand, cultivator six thousand, compane don 359,000, diesel fuel 1,600 dollars. The task is here with one unknown. So how much does it take to sell a ton of wheat to buy a plow, a light bulb, or a combustible, and even a ton of diesel fuel? It would be worth it if the minister's office would turn their faces to the farmer, think about how to spend these and the machines they needed in such a way that the farmer could buy them. The government needs to protect its own producer’s rights, not buy a charity abroad. We are well aware that today, in the agricultural sector, technical equipment has decreased by half. 80 percent of the farmhands have served their age, and there is almost no filling, although there are giants in our Kirovograd district for the production of agricultural products. But for today, it's part-time. These enterprises are constantly searching for support from the state, constantly searching for a way out of a difficult situation, but they are constantly encountering a deaf wall. In the state, however, one concern is to find the money to buy John Dirov and how much you can talk about it. But in Ukraine this has already developed a traditional pattern of behavior and conclusions, unfortunately no one does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u168	Please, Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u169	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! You're offered another law to protect your interests. And the name is interesting: "To protect the rights of agricultural car buyers." But what I'd like to say is, what is the purpose of the adoption of any law? And the purpose of the adoption of any law is to settle some social relationship that's not settled, or, given the moment, we think that they're poorly regulated. I have a question: Please tell me, what should not be the law on the protection of the rights of buyers of airplanes, ships, children’s cars and motor vehicles? Industrial, mining, and so on? What does such laws not need to be adopted? But, Your Honor, do you understand that you're leading the law to absurdity? Do you realize that students are already laughing at the bills that are being proposed here from this rostrum? You can't be absurd! I explain what the Civil Code of Ukraine is today. And the Civil Code of Ukraine provides for the moments you've been talking about here. Unfortunately, there's a much better situation, which is still in effect in the year 88, on the supply of manufacturing and technical supplies. At least there, when it was accepted by the Soviet Union, it was much better written, it was more than just agricultural machinery. But will we solve things this way? I think it's perfectly right for the science department to say that such a law does not have the right to exist. Not because there are no such problems, there are problems, they are solved in a completely different order. In a different order! And when I read this bill, I have a question when I look at article six -- "State Protection of Buyers' Rights" -- the State protects the five rights of buyers of agricultural machinery and the ability to purchase or obtain agricultural machinery. Do you understand how? A man goes to buy some sort of thing, an enterprise releases this sort of thing, goes to the market, and the state guarantees it. Then we give the rights that are here, I read further: public organizations have the right to present, to appeal to judicial authorities. These are the rights of public organizations, article 21, the purchasers of agricultural machinery. I would like to tell you that the Civil Code is responsible for the sale of non-quality products. There is article 233, "The quality of the product sold", article 234, "The right buyer if he sells the goods of an improper quality." If any of you do not know whether you are capable of using it, please ask how it is done and do not try to regulate it by a separate law. Such laws just in case of any kind of manufacturing of any machine can't be invented or necessary. This is the right as a universal tool for regulating social relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u170	We continue the session for 15 minutes. The word is given to Konovaluku Valerija Illihu. The next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u171	Valérie Konovaluk, 62 District, Donetsk Region, Ukrainian Region Party. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, dear colleagues, I will not be as categorical as the previous speaker. Indeed, we can agree that this is not a matter that should be determined by individual law. But let's look at this from a different perspective, because Ukraine is essentially an agrarian state and we have to take into account the situation in which it is now in reforming and providing conditions for the development of an agro-industrial complex. I want to say that we have really made a lot of decisions, a lot of programs. The government has repeatedly stressed that this will be a priority for government and security, first of all the development of domestic agriculture. I'm sure we should not only be looking at the protection of buyers' rights right now, but I really understand that Ukraine already needs to upgrade the tractor park. We have isolated examples when a machine company works. There are no conditions for us to ensure the economic growth that is now taking place to stimulate this economic development, this sector of the economy. So I think this is a question that needs to be addressed in the interests of 15 million of our citizens who live and work in rural areas. I think we should also consider this issue in the government's presentation of the Cabinet's programme of activities. But this law is really going to regulate the relationships that now need to be provided, let's say, protecting the rights of our buyers and creating, in fact, conditions for the development of machine-building. So we think we need to consider and support this law in the first reading, we're going to work on it, but it's a very important issue for the state. And "The Regions of Ukraine," and I will personally, as a national MP, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u172	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word is given to Paul. Pavlovsky, please, next to Odynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u173	Thank you. Pavlovski, Faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmelnicki, Party of the Fatherland. Dear friends, I continue to think that, in fact, Ukraine is a country where there are paradoxes, so the biggest paradox is that our land can feed 250 million, we have less than 40 and 82 -- beyond poverty. Moreover, there are not only lawyers living in the country but peasants, philosophers. And philosophers say that what development law is a denial of denial, one paradox can be solved by another paradox. A paradoxical law must be adopted to support agricultural production. What's more, I'd like to pay attention to the drafters of this law, and then I'll make a suggestion that there should be a separate chapter here, a few articles that clearly support their own agricultural technician. They're low-quality, but everyone has to understand that the quality of production can only grow in manufacturing. And the consumer, by the way, has two sides: on the one hand, he buys, on the other hand, the consumer has to have money to buy, so we have to protect this peasant with adequate funding and with respect to technology, so I want to say, the respectable, our combines have to have, because when they bought John Dire's combo, and they paid a lot of money for the middlemen there, so they hurryed up, the poor people who bought it with an inch-long system of measure, and we have a metric, now to have every nut and key, we have to drive it from abroad again. That's why it's necessary, it's got to regulate, it's got to regulate, it's got to buy something that's not good enough, so we have our own system of metrology and quality, and we have to look at it. Even imports are not all that sparkly, they are very suitable, for sometimes they break in the field. So, more than that, when we adopt this bill, we have to give an order to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Industry, which is today developing an appropriate industrial policy programme, where we should anticipate measures to ensure the quality of agricultural machinery, starting with metal, because we produce metal a lot, we carry inequity, and we should at least do a little quality for our machine-building. So there must be a package of measures that supports agriculture. And that's why this law, living under the conditions of our paradoxes, has to be adopted, supported, worked out, and then when it's okay, then such paradoxical laws will not be passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u174	Mikola Odynik. None. The miller, Mikola. Next Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u175	Mikola Melnik, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnichtina Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech from the end of Paul’s day. In fact, we need this law, the law that regulates price policy, we need this law in order for a farmer to get quality machines, quality spare parts. We all know that there is a flow of technology and spare parts in the village today. And within the limits of regulation, no one is responsible for that. It does not bear what has been created in Ukraine in a variety of crafts and crafts, where parts of a very low quality and metal are produced. Of course, the adoption of the proposed law will contribute to improving the quality and reliability of agricultural technology, protecting the rights of its buyers, and supporting technical service infrastructure in rural areas. It can be expected that, in the near future, after the adoption of such a law, the economic impact of agricultural production will improve significantly, and the social infrastructure of the village will improve considerably, and the restoration of the infrastructure of the technical service. This is provided that the prices for agriculture and energy are adequate. Of course, we all know that a farmer or a foreigner today has nothing to buy. So I was asking, could production today be able to put on those rails to produce quality power tools? Of course, if you make 100 or 150 tractors, if there's a Kharkiv factory, or if there's another factory there, 20 or 30 machines, combines, of course, will be inconceivable. And two or three years later, they have to go back to the factories or cheat. Of course, this is a major problem for the farmer. So there are many places in this matter where we should, of course. Free removal of faults or reimbursement of expenses by the buyer. the performers and the technical service. Of course, this will help to increase the producer’s responsibility. And, of course, the seller, if he buys all this technology or whatever, he can, of course, turn to the answer and the same damage that he's going to be able to do, of course. We all realize that today the spare parts that go into agriculture, the spare parts, or are made of very low quality. So I would like to say that we really need this bill, and I suggest we take it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u176	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, the main problem of agricultural machinery production is the support of our own agricultural technician. There are two problems in this regard: quality and price problems. The low quality of our agricultural technology is a conscious policy that is being pursued with the aim of destroying a Ukrainian producer as a competitor. There are people who want it abroad, there are people who want it in Ukraine. And they are pursuing this very policy to destroy. And we have the material and technology base, we have the technology, we have the science, we have the footage, we have everything to ensure the release of high-quality agricultural products, Ukrainian products. But that's a problem. I think we should work on bills that will help us solve this problem. In this connection, we're trying to give either John Dire, or the Russian Ennisei, which is of a lower quality among other things, but they're pushing him into our market. Especially, really, we see the negative effects of such a policy on combines. The Ukrainian combo does not simply come because it is refused to be released in Ukraine. And in this context, I think there's a point to a bill that aims to ensure the reliability of the manufacturer's work, to stimulate the production of its own technology, and to protect the rights of consumers, that is to say, to ensure quality growth. Of course, there's a lot of declaration in this law, but I think it's generally the right direction. And the question of price. If the price is too high, it's clear that we can't compete with those who'll give us products. And the last. Conclusion. I think it's the case when fair Carmazin was too harsh. I understand his motives, they have reasons. Why do we need all of this if we have the Civil Code? But the Civil Code, you know, it's all a lot of volumes, not everyone will read, there's a lot of stuff written in general, but there's a particular problem with improving the quality of agricultural production of Ukraine and protecting the rights of its consumers. Mr. Jury, let's go over some specific little law, maybe even what the Civil Code is, if it helps solve the issue, why not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-03-18-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is closed. The vote will take place on Thursday. The morning session is closed. The evening session will take place at 4:00 p.m. Good luck, 4:00.
