ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:42]] Registered -438 A total of 438 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputy Kalinchuk Vasil Antonovich. Let us welcome Vasil Antonovich, and wish him success, health. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I report the membership of the Ukrainian Deputy faction Kiril Policchuk. In harmony with article 2.5. 2 Friday’s regulations have 30 minutes to announce requests, applications, messages, and proposals made by national deputies. Please, Your Honor, sign up for statements and messages. In the meantime, I will announce the parliamentary questions you have come if you do not mind. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of the street of the Chekhtovniks of the city of Kirovské Donetské region. Groups of national MPs of Vernigor, Nikolainko and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding violations by the Government of the current legislation in determining the average wage for pension. Igora Jeremjeev to Prime Minister of Ukraine for delaying the central authorities of the executive branch of the construction of the school in the village of Osovka Kashir district of Volin district. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Starosinya sugar plant. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the prevention of the 2004 grain crisis and the use of government measures to remedy the situation. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the heat supply of multi-story buildings in Kirovské Donetské region. Group of National Deputies - Rahanski, Matvienkov - to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about financing work on drilling artesian wells. Michael Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation from the Ukrainian State Budget in 2004 for the construction of the gas pipeline and socio-cultural facilities of the agricultural production cooperative Suvorov Novoselické district of Cherniewec. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine on the cessation of the transfer of a swimming pool by technical aircraft in Kramatorsk to the city council balance. Olga Hinzburg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-payment of wages to the colleagues of the Atomoggluprom Institute and the employees of the Red Metals factory of the city of Konotap Sumsk district. Victor Pinzenik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the definition of the funding levels of the health facilities of the city of Dubno and Dubin district for 2004. Georgia Bourke to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the settlement of the question of the fate of the residents of the hostel number one city of Kirovska Donetsk Region. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine in the appointment of civil servants to head positions in the State. Vladimir Zubanova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure by the Minister of Economy of Ukraine to execute the Government's mandate to provide the city of Zugrez of the Donetsk Region. Victor the King to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the protection of small-scale domestic businesses from unfair competition. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the answer to the request for an additional issue of the closed stock company Lukor. Yuri Shirka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violating the requirements of legislation in the selection of areas for shelters of spent nuclear fuel. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine for the closure of the anti-tuberculus dispenser in the city of Red Army and the unsatisfactory state of residential and utility services in the city of Dimitrivo Donetsk. Eugene Hoornik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the request for funding from the State Budget Reserve Fund of Ukraine for repairs to the emergency roof of the secondary school of Ivano Franki district. Boris Zagreb to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of the regional landscape park "Zumanski in the territory of the Kyviatsk district of Volin Region. Kivertsi district of Volin County, I'm sorry. Viktor Rozwadowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for changes to the state registration of the Novoguywin Village Council of the Žitomir District of the Žitomir Region in connection with the acceptance into the municipal property of the territorial community of military towns. Igor Shurma to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the financial situation that took place in the agricultural enterprises of the Luboshiv region of Odessa in connection with the unfavourable weather and climate conditions of 2002-2003. Romana Zvarič to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on providing information on the implementation of the law on prevention and resistance to the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means. Tetjana Draha to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the removal to the 2004 State Budget of Ukraine from the budget of the Obukhiv region of Kyiv region. Group of National Deputies - Katerinczuk, King, Oilynik to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the failure to comply with Presidential Decree No. 1473 of 17 September 2003. Paul Mouchcan to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Dmitr Tobacco for failure by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine paragraph 2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the functioning of Ukrainian language in Ukraine. Jury Kostenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko, Head of the State Committee on the State Material Reserve for the activities of the Hmelny Regional Administration for the provision of the internal market for grain and food and the purposeless use of flour extracted from the State reserve of the area. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-target use of state funds for the disposal of the Novomirgorodska mine in the region of Kirovograd. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in paying the debt for the milk paid to residents of the city of Tereshkovka Sumska District. Group of National Deputies of Semenyuk, Winsky, Spudarenko, only 12 National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal financial and economic activities of Victor Medvedchuk. Michael Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of residents of the village of Bortovka of the Hmelnitsk Region. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the failure of the Prosecutor's Office of the Vinnitsky District to rob the state property of the Vinnicki National Design Engineering Company of Hipronevtoagregates and on the unlawful actions of officials of the Open Shareholders Association of the Winnick factory of tractors after the request of the Special Supervisory Commission for the facts indicated. Julius Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the non-refunding of funds to investors of the "Our Bank" of Zaporozhye. Victor Antemuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine of the City of Winnick on the investigation of violations of the rights of the legitimate and legitimate interests of a citizen by members of the Winnick City Council and officials of the Vinnick City Executive Committee. Igora Jeremeyeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the delay in the prosecution and the local court of Kamin-Kashir district of Volin district in the criminal investigation into the murder of the resident of the village of Bronice. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the audit of the financial and economic activities of the closed stock company "The Valley Fertile". Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for insufficient control by some officials of the Prosecutor's Office in the Suman area of implementing legislation on the privatization of housing. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory examination of the violation of the housing rights of residents of the scientific and manufacturing firm Lugansk Batteries. Oleg Bespalov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of supporting the prosecution of illegal charges brought against Boris Feldman. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of violations by members of the Procurator’s Office of the Plain Region of the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine by bringing lawsuits in the interests of commercial structures in the form of protection of the interests of the State. Igora Tarasyuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for failure to execute court decisions on payment of debts on salary to former employees of the bankrupt Podvolocchi oil plant. Andrija Shkila to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in connection with the delay in criminal proceedings by the Ternopil City Court on the death of a citizen as a result of a road accident. Gregory Omelchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of information on abuse of office with beneficial motives by former individual heads of the Ukrainian Security Service, to give their actions a legal assessment and to bring the guilty to justice. Mary Markusz to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the head of the State Service Department of Ukraine for the purpose of being in the public service of a person who was involved in criminal responsibility for a crime of the service. Vladimir Shandry to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the purpose of disbanding the mechanized brigade number 97, located in Slavuta Hmelnicki district. Andrija Škila to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine in connection with the failure to execute a court decision on the acquisition and joint sub-community with limited responsibility of the "Resurrection of Delhi" of the village of Berezianka in the Ruzin district of Žitomir region of the sum of money in favour of the defendants of the village of Radenichi in the region of Lviv. Michael Melniczuk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the Ministry's write-offs on the settlement of compensation costs for the liberated military personnel of the Novoselicki district military commissioner of the Cherniewsky region. Istwana Haydosh to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Minister of Economy and European Integration of Ukraine, for creating favourable conditions for Ukrainian citizens to travel abroad by rail. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of medical equipment to the Krasnopolska Agricultural Hospital of the Wonderland District. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine for the purpose of stopping the management of the Transnistrian Railway and selling to students of the benefits of railway tickets. Paul Kachura to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine for the illegal transfer of objects of social structure that are attached to the Lviv State Factory "Lorta" in the ownership of a limited-liability club of professional football "Karpati". Group of National Deputies: Shirko, Red - only 7 National Deputies to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the Celebration of the Jubilee of the Ravenna Music School. Groups of National Deputies: Pavlovský, Turčinov, Belarus, head of the State Road Service in Ukraine, head of the Road Service in the Žitomir Region for the completion of the construction of a road in the Žitomir region. Leukka Lukyanenka to the Kyiv City Head for a grave violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution regarding the functioning of Ukrainian language in the capital city of Kyiv. Lesia Tanjuk to the head of the Donetsk District State Administration for the illegal disbandment of the Crevice City Technical Library and the Crevice Mineral Museum. Oleg Tajnibok to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the conduct of a criminal investigation and the prosecution of the Novoselkian village head of Yavorski. Vladimir Lešchenka to Deputy Prime Minister Kirilenko of Ukraine on the gross violation of the current legislation of Ukraine regarding the rental of land and property rations for peasants and the opposition to the free handling of these rations in the village of Antonovka of the region of Chernigiv. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the strengthening of the material and technical base of Herson region's broadcasters. Vladimir Onishuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the replacement of a precautionary action by a citizen named Gerasimov for criminal case number 144 in the Odessa Court of Appeal in connection with a serious illness. Vladimir Onishuk to the head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime under the President of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine Kolyko for the theft of collective property by the leadership of a society with limited responsibility for Ukraine's Greatly Mihail district of the Odessa Region. All parliamentary requests have been made. Let's move on, fellow citizens, to speeches by national MPs with statements, reports, queries and information. Please state on board the names of the national MPs who are registered. Ivan Gabrieluk, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u2	I'm asking you to pass the word to Robbery Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u3	Yuri Orobec, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u4	Yuri Orobec. A statement from the faction "Our Ukraine." "To the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Ukraine for Emergency Situations. During the last five months, the city of Uzhgorod and Zakarpatska Food Group, Mukachevo, under direct political orders from the head of the Zacarpathian Government of Rizak, are being subjected to massive and pre-planned checks by tax authorities, internal affairs authorities, fire parts. There was nothing relevant about these tests. That's why the authorities lost everything in court. At the same time, the authorities continue to carry out new tests that do not fit the logic of existing legislation. On behalf of the faction "Our Ukraine", we demand an immediate cessation of the illegal conspiracies, because the purpose of this controversy is to deal politically with the above-mentioned structures of the head of the government of the Rizak region. If we refuse, we leave the right to take decisive steps to restore the rule of law and order in the Zakartat region." I would like to add, as the head of the Mukachevo election commission, that Mr. Rizak and his party lost the mayor's election in Mukachev. And now there's a debate about those structures that supported the popularally elected mayor of Mukachevo. I'm making an official application to the Bureau to send it to the addressees.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u5	Turkey gives its right to speak to Michael Pavlov. Please. Prepare Valeria Mishuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u6	Pavlovski, the faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmeljničina. Dear colleagues, journalists! I want to draw attention to the systematic invasion of human constitutional rights. I'm going to list the main directions: First of all, the proposals supported by the Constitutional Court leave the highest human right to choose the President. The other one. I want to get my attention about the pay advance. You were supposed to get a minimum wage of 237 in December, and the government reduced it to 205. The Codex of the Master proposes that people be evicted from the streets if there is public debt. Here comes the tongue. How Ukraine can live, if there is an offensive to language, on bookkeeping. The bill that was in force, Turkinova, was a book study aid. The government in the budget eliminated these benefits. And even our Billofoot singer, who was on Radio Rock, promised that he would go to the President not to sign this budget, but apparently he didn't turn, he didn't have the courage to stand up for the language and the word. Moreover, the VAT tax on newspapers once again leaves people even reading what they have. What is more, yesterday there was a shameful Labour Code, where people were allowed to strike, where employees in general were deprived of all rights. Trade unions are moving away from this activity. This is also an attack on human rights. What is left for this person? The attack on health care was discussed in the budget. The offensive to education is free of charge, and our faction offers it out of pay. We're going to propose and we're going to draft a bill, and I'm going to go to everyone, and to most people, back up the minimum wage of 237. Where do you get the money? Today, treasury does not know where to spend 5 billion dollars in connection with budget overruns. This time. On the other hand, what was to be paid in December was saved again. GDP growth is not going to be 4.7 percent, but it's going to be about 7, another five billion. See how much money the government doesn't know where to go. So, then they'll have to be distributed, so we'll have to pay people back. That's why I'm talking to everyone. There is a need to support the recovery of 237, the source is, not to deceive people. And with regard to education and health care. We must defend our right to be educated. We must fight against the debacle of our society, against the genocide of our nation. So let's give the last chance we have to fight for our rights. Let's leave these rights alone. We're not going to achieve anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u7	Valérie Mishur, Communist faction. Tomenko instead of Teryohin. Oh, Olga Hinzburg, please, Mishura gives the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u8	Thank you. The Communist faction. Against the backdrop of the problems that some reform in our country, others choose cars to buy for the New Year. As Shevchenko said, "In every man his fate, his way is broad. He is wise, he is directing, and he is looking for the end of the world to break away again." And I have a problem. And my villagers in the village of Coltunov in the Shastkin district and others, the deputies of the district council are turning. Dear National Deputies! Please help the villagers and take note of the problems we face. In order to develop animal farming today, existing tariffs are urgently needed in individual farms. You see what's going on. If a peasant doesn't have a counter, he's told today that if you have a goat, for example, you pay 50 kips from the top, if you have a sheep, you pay 40 kips, if you have a horse, then 80, and if you have a pig, that's 2.20, and if you have a cow, that's 3.90. And it turns out that even for a cow, for a calf, if only a calf was born, every farmer must gather these little ones together, pay each month. And the peasant says, "But I don't use gas for cows or horses or anything else." And after counting all these coins, he doesn't have enough to pay his pension today. And the peasants of the village of Kovtunova, 97 farms today, are addressing you, and I am turning from this high rostrum to the Cabinet of Ministers to explain why these prices for the use of gas in agriculture are today. And I'd like you to count my speech as a parliamentary appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u9	Yes, Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Next up will be Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you of Victor Yushchenk's position on the situation that has arisen in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision. We are concerned that the members of the Constitutional Court have decided to follow the President of Ukraine not to defend the Constitution of Ukraine as a basic law, I will review and interpret this law freely. This is how you admit that yesterday, the Constitutional Court decided to give bribes to 450 people's deputies for refusing the right of the Ukrainian people to elect a President, and that Parliament should appoint a President, the Constitutional Court considers it perfectly normal to extend the term of national deputies for one year in order to appoint that person as President, which the authorities consider necessary. Surprisingly, the position of the Constitutional Court, which does not read the Constitution of Ukraine, where, according to the text, it is stated in article 72, that public authorities are chosen by direct secret general vote, that the Constitutional Court does not read another rule of the Constitution, which prohibits narrowing the political rights of our citizens. You know that the Constitutional Court is preparing the next historic decision that will treat Leonid Kuchma as not President, but simply as political work. And he has a right to travel on the third term, that is, the second term. As a university professor, I have to say that I have first-grade students who know that from 1991 to 1996, we lived by the Constitution, which had a clear standard that the President would choose two terms. If the members of the Constitutional Court do not know this, let them come to the judicial branches. As a lecturer, I am ashamed of the professors of the Kharkiv Law University, the University of Kiev, the University of Odessa, the Institute of State and the law, who signed recommendations that Leonid Kuchma was not President in the first term. Dear colleagues! Life will continue after the presidential elections. And you're going to come to the student audience with me and look these students in the eye. So what I want to tell you is, yes, you're being forced to do this, but think about the fact that in 2004, the presidential election is going to be exactly what it's going to be, it's going to be straight. And I hope that they will be honest and democratic. And if that's not the case, we're going to use all the legal methods to make it happen. And I would like to ask you to remember. That life will be after the presidential election campaign, and I hope that it will be better, and that you will not lie to students in your colleges, but to tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u11	Yuri Lucenko. Leonid Ivanovich Player will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u12	Yuri Lucenko Socialist Party of Ukraine Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform the Supreme Council of the move of the so-called Cuchma Medvedchuk Civil Forum, which was held in Žitomir yesterday. Despite the efforts of numerous militias to limit the presence of participants in this action, defined by the authority of people all over the area, the district organization, using the experience of the Donetsk authorities, took over this facility, brought in 500 of its representatives and thereby gave the people this action. The Chamber heard not only a report from the Presidential Administration of the Rector-Esdek, Mr. Sauh, but also from the National MP, Mr. Alexander Baranowski. At the end of the day, the chairman-in-chief, Sauch, tried his best to extend support in the resolution for changes to the Constitution, which would envision the election of the President as an active member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Three times, co-reporter Baranowski suggested that the chairman put to the vote an alternative standard for the preservation of the Constitution’s universal election of the new President by a term of five years. Under the pressure of the indignant hall, the chairman-in-chief was finally forced to do so. As a result, the proposal received an absolute majority of the votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am telling you this not to show again how the authorities have failed the planned action in Žitomir, but to clearly distinguish between the plans of the President's Administration with the conviction of a simple, unelected people. I take this opportunity, once again, to stress that the Socialist Party of Ukraine strongly advocates the need to change the system of power and people in power. We don't have anything to do with the pro-institution plans to change the Constitution, which falsely use the slogans of opposition to the parliamentary-presidential republic with a single purpose: to preserve the Kuchma and the Bushmen in power. The PSC calls on all democratic forces to unite to change the Constitution on the basis of three basic principles: the first-response system of elections to the Supreme, District and District Councils of People’s Deputies; the second-direct national elections of the new President in 2004; the third-restricted power of the President to transfer them to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council since 2006, when the new Supreme Council will have the political and moral right to elect a full-fledged leader of the full government. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I will also talk about another subject. I am personally very pleased with the Ukrainian militia's actions to finally enforce Ukrainian laws. Finally, an order was issued that directs the Haitians to check the numbers of the President's Administration, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, which were scattered across Ukraine. For this, I am grateful for the new DAI leadership.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u13	Joseph Wynsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that Yuri Lucenka's position is supported by the entire faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We express our deep appreciation to the DAI for punishing the employees of the Presidential Administration for the numerous violations of the city of Kiev. And we wanted to start with the President, who, after the passage of the city of Kiev, is blocked, people can't get to work. Now I'd like to say the next thing. Ukraine's socialist party is very concerned about the situation in the Ukrainian media area, especially on state television channels. The opposition party’s access to television and television has been virtually suppressed. The viewers are only able to see the new comments identified by the darknesses of the Bank. A particularly depressing painting in the National Television Company of Ukraine, whose involvement we were able to see, listening here on October 3rd to the leader of UT-1 Savenka. Then he claimed that the opposition had access to State television and, as an example, he brought Alexander Moroz to the program "It's The One." In fact, UT-1 lied first. The leader of our faction has never performed in this UT-1 program. I'm going to point out that, with the permission of me to say, the inaccurate information of the head of the NTC has dared to write only the newspaper Tovarish. Here too, however, Mr. Savenko used his Hebiz methods. After a publication at Tovarsha from the National Television, letters came in demanding that the newspaper's information be corrected as false on the basis that "The One" once released Alexander Moroz's little comment on the air. It seems that this several-second speech was meant by Mr. Savenko when he spoke of lighting up on the UT-1 activity of the opposition. The cynicism of the leaders of NTCU has already crossed any limits. By keeping quiet and twisting the activities of the opposition, they allow themselves to be pressured against the opposition press, hoping for the roof of their masters. They want to expand censorship not only on television channels but also to close independent editions that can allow themselves to speak the truth. That's why in the regions, the local authorities are trying to take a note of the newspaper Tovarish and the newspaper Silske News, and officials and some politicians of different ranks are attacking these newspapers in the center. Even so, the government attempted to impose a tax on the added value of newspapers in the same way to make it easier for the disadvantaged people who today sign these newspapers. In a country where television is controlled, the Tovarish newspaper, the Village News and other opposition press are or are not the only sources of true information. So I would like to call on people to pay back these publications in order to get an objective picture of the Ukrainian present, which today’s authorities are trying to silence by all means possible. The socialists who have always opposed all forms of censorship will not allow pressure on the Tovarish and Rural News newspapers by either puppets or puppeteers from the Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u15	Leukko Lukyanenko, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko Yeah. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u16	Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. We have discussed on the faction the problem of our Constitutional Court, and I would like to share with you our thoughts. So the task of the Constitutional Court is to verify the laws and regulations in accordance with their Constitution. The Constitution is the legal meter to which the Constitutional Court applies any other law or legal act and decides whether or not to comply with the Constitution. This is his responsibility, and this is his responsibility. So the case is now the fact that the Constitutional Court went to a grave violation of the Constitution. What is involved in these violations? First. He thinks the President can be elected by the Supreme Council. The other one. He thinks our President must have been once before, and now he'll be allowed to run again. I mean, it's not two terms of the presidency anymore, it's like one. It's as if his previous term of office was not the presidency, but it was something else, and now he's allowed to be once again. And finally, the extension of the term of our Supreme Council itself for one year. Each of these decisions is a gross violation of the Constitution. Today, we have a Constitution that says black and white, "Man can only be president twice in a row." And he's been there twice because normal logic says he was twice. How, then, can we explain the period since 1994, who was the President then? And the second. Ukraine also lived with the Constitution before the Constitution of today’s independent Ukraine in 1996. We haven't had a day like this without a Constitution. We had the Constitution of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. We also had the Presidential Elections Act. Both the Constitution and the Soviets and the Presidential Elections Act predicted that the same person could not be more than twice the President of Ukraine. So the trick of letting Kuchma fly the third time is completely illogical and contrary to the law. Thus, honourable Members, we see that there is simply a grave violation of the Constitutional Court itself. He thus proved on this illustration that either it consists of people who are unprincipled, or it consists of people who are legally uneducated. Both this and that motive is sufficient for us in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ask about the replacement of members of the Constitutional Court. What I'm offering us to do is thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u17	Andrew School, Yulia Timoshenko’s block. Next up is Nikolainka instead of Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u18	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I'd like to answer the previous speaker first, and he asked the question: who was in charge of Ukraine in the first term, if the Constitutional Court had determined that it wasn't Leonid Kuchma. It was just Kuchma, I'm sure. [[Could not close temporary folder: %s]] I think it's going to be a more thorough explanation than what the Constitutional Court has prepared. And in general, I would like to draw the attention of honourable MPs and radio listeners here to the fact that this country's budget is not us, not the opposition, but the majority, who will be directly responsible for what's been adopted. And in this budget, listen to the figure, 23 million. The money to fight terrorism in Ukraine is allocated to the antiterrorist center of 23 million dollars. This is because 6 million dollars have been allocated to fight against the laundering of dirty money at the request of FATF. We can imagine the difference between what is happening in Ukraine. The laundering of dirty money in Ukraine is happening -- it's a fact. It's good or bad for an image, but it is. But what about terrorism? I think that out of those 23 million, about 20 million will be allocated to the terrorists themselves, so that they will eventually appear in this country. Because there is no such thing in Ukraine. There's only one type of terrorism in Ukraine -- it's state terrorism. But at the expense of government terrorism, the State Centre for Combating Terrorism, of course, will not fight. And now we have an extraordinary event for me. At first, the Law on Combating Terrorism, which provided unlimited opportunities for the Ukrainian Security Service, was passed. Such ones were once dreamed of by Dørjinsky and his undershepherds, Jehoash and Berijah, who dreamed of such permissiveness. There is now such permissiveness in today’s Security Service. We broke the files on whether the Security Service could listen to the phones or not? Sure. Because all of us, the opposition, are potential terrorists in the minds of at least the Ukrainian Security Service. And I say again, I propose then, in the following amendments to the budget, that I introduce a separate line on the fight in Ukraine with the tsunami -- why not, with the summit -- why not. Because both terrorism and tsunamis and Ukraine alone are not the kind of terrorism they're going to fight here. They show by means of the media how brilliant soldiers, how well - trained and prepared they will be to fight terrorism in flames. We know perfectly well that the terrorists will be declared opposition. And after that, exactly how Kuchma is going to be released on the third term, when they cheat us with an anti-constitutional for, that is, they're going to do it, and our only response is to refer to the people, to non-parliamentary methods, and then to include the Anti-Terrorist Act. It's instead of spending money on developing Ukrainian language, culture, what's being destroyed by a government car, what's being destroyed and eliminated. And here they want to fight the nonexistent phenomenon, yet nonexistent. And I have no doubt that this phenomenon will be created in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u19	Stanislaw Nikolaynko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. John Sidorovich Boki will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u20	Nikolainko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hersonian. I'd like to speak today as a representative of the Majority District, as an MP who's been elected three times by the same district. I was recently in my district for a few days, visiting Hersonian. And what I'd like to say is to draw the government's attention to the extremely negative alarming trends that are taking place in this southern Tavrian region. First, a few years in a row of terrible droughts. People didn't get anything on their pies. Businesses, organizations, agricultural cooperatives, they're practically non-paymentable, they have nothing to pay for, and there's such terrible natural disasters. And what do we get? Humans have, of course, ten to fifteen acres [8 ha] per person. But they didn't get anything out of it. But they are valued in their incomes, and these unemployed, poor, and hungry people do not count the state’s aid as low-income. I'm going to Minprac today, to the Cabinet of Ministers. Is it not clear today that if the earth stands empty and has nothing born on it, how can income be counted? I'd like to direct extra funds there so that I don't lose this land at all. Next. The fuel and energy situation. When I visited five villages, the question was the same: "Why did coal become 430-450 bracelets per tonne today? Why? What happened?".. Because in our budget, we increased the cost of the coal sector. Why does it grow so much coal? Price? I am absolutely convinced that neither the Antimonopoly Committee nor Minpalevenergo nor the Price Committee are interested in these problems. A pensioner who receives 100 dollars must pay a half - year pension for a ton of coal. Or electricity. I'm being approached by leaders, heads of village councils, and they're saying, "Why did the price of electricity go up for this month to a penny and a half?" Where's the Antimonopoly Committee, where's the National Regulatory Commission? Why 32 kilowatts of electricity? People can’t even have a winter drink of water. That there's no water there, and there's nothing more to it than this criminal behavior of privatized Hersonblanergo that you can't get warm or drink water today. I'd like to talk about the irrigation problem. It seems to me that the State Committee on Meliorization and Water Resources is just playing, not in public policy. Why is there no energy cost in the budget, no water cost to be used for irrigation? In many countries of the world, such as Hersonian, Santa, Crimea, and so on, it is free of charge that only humans live there and there is bread. So we don't buy it by tens of millions of dollars to pay abroad. Today, I would like to draw attention to these problems again and again, and it is imperative that the government take action.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u21	Ivan Sidorovich Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I address the opposition mainly because most of them are in the hall. There's not a lot of people here, but I'm still talking to those who are. You are part of the great political action that is now taking place in Ukraine. And it's going in a few directions, but in the end it's all going in the same direction. You can see how the attack on humans is now unfolding, and you are taking part in this attack on people. Your hands, the majority, have raised the price of bread, your hands, the majority, the presidential majority, and the price of medicine. This is done at a time when you have blessed a reduction in the statutory minimum wage. I understand that there is obviously no end to the elections before the presidential elections. But if you don't understand what you're doing, I'm very surprised that you're taking on this kind of responsibility at such a responsible time. It's an irresponsible thing to do, because it's the best way to act against yourself and act against your candidate. So I'm not surprised that the Constitutional Court is already involved in these games. Because yesterday's Constitutional Court has made a positive decision that we can continue to authorize today's Supreme Council for a year and that we can elect the President by today's composition of the Supreme Council tells us that you're nowhere to be seen. You already want to choose who you're told and you want to leave the power of criminality, as they say, at the stern. I don't understand the logic of this behavior, do you not understand that people already understand it, people understand it all very well? We socialists don't need that kind of bribe. I say this with full responsibility. We don't need a bribe in one year. We need the President's universal election no matter what he's authorized to do. Because the people under the Constitution are the source of power and they have to choose the head of state. If you think you can fool people with these tricks, I assure you, today we have a people so literate that it just won't work. And your attack on people's rights, your attack on people's social protection, is the best agitation against what you do. I'm not going to normally put you back in my faith. That won't happen. Although I don't think it's faith. As unbelievers, you have remained so faithless. But think of your offspring, your offspring, and what people will say about you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u23	Yes, fellow believers, here we have two petitions in accordance with the Rules requiring the right to speak in connection with the dissatisfaction of answers to parliamentary requests. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. And prepare for Vladimir Yavorowski. Please, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u24	Three minutes, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I went to the Ministry of Agriculture three times this year. I turned to the idea that peasants do not all receive subsidies for their livestock and agriculture. I turned to him and received excellent answers. I don't blame the Ministry of the APC on these answers. I believe that in the situation that has taken place today, the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance and its leadership are to blame. Tell me, how do you explain to the three neighbors who turned three bulls in one day -- one got a grant because they got a limit and two others didn't? And these thousands of peasants today beat the thresholds of the Reisilgows, the Osilgow administrations, to pay the grant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the middle of Parliament, most of it. You gave 400 million grain traders easy yesterday to buy grain. Why didn't you offer to give 100 million of these 400 million dollars to farmers in three years for that livestock, for the produce they gave to the state? The government’s debt in three years is 600,000 in the region of Czernovetsec. Throughout Ukraine, it accounts for tens of millions. We could have solved that question yesterday. This was the case of Yuri Lucenko, the faction of Soccer. Peter Poroshenko spoke on this point. It's all deaf. There's money going where it's good. Please tell me, who had the right to rule if Parliament decided to compensate for the loss of the winter? And today the funds have gone to the treasury, and the telegram of Azarov follows: "It costs only to pay for fertilizer. Costs to send to the seeds of hot wheat." Dear Mr. Azarov, don't you understand?Oh, my God! You didn't sow. You don't have the right to collect, you don't have the right to manage the costs of the peasants. That's different. I am again addressing Mr. Azarov, and I ask that you give me an official answer. Comrade Mr. Azarov, where do you share 600 million from the budget that was allocated in order to purchase grain in the future, 2004? Why is there today no fixed price for the purchase of grain in peasants in the coming year? That should be at least a thousand 200 bucks. And the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is going to sound this question, it's going to try to solve it, it's really necessary for the state, because it's not just the peasants, it's the Ukrainian people, it's the whole state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u25	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Similarly, a dissatisfaction has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u26	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovva, Rava Ruska, Dubljana, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine". People's Honourable Chosen Ones! Our esteemed voters, who may be listening to us this Friday morning. I went up, I'll tell you right away, to this rostrum, not to, let's say, meet some of my MP's demands, but something else came up. In recent times, perhaps many of the deputies, especially the opposition deputies, have been well aware and aware that the information space in Ukraine has already been privatized, has been placed on the service of one single clan - the presidential clan and the Office of the President. I'll give you one single example. The first national channel, think about it, a national channel that should serve the interests of the nation, not one man who turned out to be the first term not to be president. I agree that he wasn't the first term, I agree that he wasn't the second term president, he was just leading the clan that's maiming Ukraine today. So the first channel gives information to a one-sided, one-sided position, is 97.2. You can imagine what a national channel has been transformed into. Now imagine, on this background, of course, the problem I'm talking about is clearly that it's going to look petty. But I have to talk about it because I want people to think about who we vote for today and what we've created for today. Think about it! If the national MP was the last national MP in the all-state parliament, in three calls here, the head of the National Union, and I'm not allowed to speak for 3-4 minutes on the first channel and tell people the truth. At a time when against the National Union, against me, against the opposition of all literally, give me my word, it's not my style, but I don't find another word: "channelization literally broke." What are we talking about on 1 + 1 and on the 1st channel? What will happen to the society that is being raised in wickedness today? You're on your head, those who serve today both the President and the Medvedchuk and the company, you're on your head this anger that you're cultivating in society today -- it's going to fly on your heads. Savenko's texting me off, telling the MPs that they were "drinking drinks" where the president collected 78 freebies. I have a right to say it because I have these lists. And they imitate it like a convention. And Savenko says to me, these are grading, speaking, moments. Mr. Savenko is the same thing that the President, let's say, took you out, and we'll take you out, and it'll be announced on TV. And then we're going to say, well, everything is normal, it's just evaluation elements. That's why I'm saying again: I'm just asking Mr. Savenka. By the way, I was answered in violation of the Law, not by Savenko, but by his entourage. Ladies and gentlemen, I want most of you today not to rub your hands, because tomorrow they will do the same with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, time is up. From the questions raised in the speeches, information, reports, queries and statements made by the national MPs, I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions for the authorities. A draft law on the specificities of budget support for energy conservation in budgetary institutions, casinos, utilities is now under consideration. The Committee proposes such rules of procedure for the consideration of the matter. This is the Committee on Fuel Energy. For the reporter, up to 3 minutes, just like the answers to the questions, up to 3 minutes, for the co-report, 3 minutes and the discussion, 3 minutes. 12 minutes. What Are the Thoughts? Let's do it this way, dear fellows. We'll take at least 15 minutes. No objections? It's a deal. Then we go after the committee's proposals, and the discussion goes on for 15 minutes. I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gregory Dashutin. Prepare Yuri the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, we have a draft Ukrainian law on the characteristics of budget support for energy conservation in budgetary institutions, casinos, utilities. Registration number of this bill 3769. The adoption of this bill is primarily due to the need to develop legislative support for energy conservation, particularly in budgetary institutions, casinos and utilities. This is particularly relevant in view of the fact that the high energy efficiency of the gross domestic product significantly limits the competitiveness of national production and the well-being of the population, has a negative impact on the economy of the State, especially due to its external energy dependence. The bill improves the validity of legislation. energy conservation in the promotion of the deployment of energy-efficient technologies in the state-of-the-art enterprises, as well as interest in the rational and cost-effective use of energy-energy resources, which will ultimately reduce the budgetary costs of these institutions by energy resources. State support for energy conservation in these enterprises will be a real step in strengthening Ukraine’s energy independence. The draft law provides for the legal regulation of relations arising from the financing of energy conservation measures implemented by budgetary institutions, casinos and utilities. The bill consists of four chapters and eight articles. The first section defines the terms used in the project, the scope of the law, and the basic principles of State policy to support energy conservation measures in the listed enterprises. Chapter 2 sets out the principles of government administration and regulation in the area of budgetary support for energy conservation measures in these institutions and enterprises. Chapter 3 sets out the mechanism for budgetary support for the measures taken, the sources and the specificities of their funding from the State and local budgets, as well as for the promotion of investments for the mentioned ones. through the application of the credit-scheduling mechanism. Chapter 4 sets out the procedure for the taking of effect by this law, the deadlines for bringing valid legislative and regulatory acts into conformity with the law, as well as the development of necessary acts authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers, the central executive authority, to ensure its implementation. In the view of the drafters of the bill, it is timely and may be submitted to the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption in the first reading. I look forward to your support for this bill in the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u29	Please sign up, your honors, for the vote. On the board, please explain. People's Deputy Remenjuk, People's Landing Group. Is there a belt? None. Then Kostinuk, Bogdan Kostinuk, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u30	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yuschenka's Block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear reporter, I agree with what you said that the implementation of this idea, which is set out in this project, will allow the budgetary institutions to significantly reduce the cost of fuel and energy resources. And in turn, this should reduce the cost of budgets of all levels, which maintain budgetary institutions and casinos, and utilities. But for the introduction of this idea, actually, this law requires budgetary investment, it takes money. In other words, I have a question: what is the price of this question, how much does this bill cost, this idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. You know this question is very often asked by the Cabinet of Ministers: extra money. I'm going to ask you in reverse when today we're putting in the 2004 budget for the maintenance of a school at a square metre of 9 bracelets, when in Ukraine 1 bracelet, that is, 9 times Minffin's spending on maintaining a school in a village. So I'm asking the question: So we're still going to be betting nine times on the maintenance of this school? So this is a one-year offer to set aside the interest rate of the bank loan, and this loan is going to be taken by the local authorities. And then we suggest that in the 2005 budget, we put up interest payments, and the cost of this project is going to be 1.5-2 years. So by 2006 or 2007, Minfin will have already had not 9 bracelets, but 1 bracelet per square meter in school. And we're going to get the crazy money savings that go to the science base, they're going to go to maintenance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u32	Olga Hinsburg. Please briefly form questions and the answer in a similar way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u33	Dear Gregory Petrovich, please tell me these two questions. This percentage of credit, it's defined somehow, which percentage is going to be large, small or who's going to regulate it? Are there banks that can issue these loans? And I have a question: why energy conservation? Credit, finance, and then energy conservation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u34	What we're talking about is that the energy-saving technologies are going to be paid off. There's an average interest rate that banks are making today. And indeed, the National Bank will make its proposals and a commission will be set up to be made up of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I propose to the Supreme Council. And this committee is going to look at these projects and determine for each individual project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u35	Please, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u36	Nikolainka, a socialist faction. Dear George Petrovich, I have a question for you. Absolutely right bill, I know this subject very well because we would save hundreds of millions of dollars here. But I'd like you to say your opinion and your vision of this problem right now. Why we put fines in the Energy Act for budgetary institutions on a fivefold scale in excess of the limits. It turns out that we did not supplement the budget to a narrow or technical level, ordered it to five times, and then, from a budget of five times the size of a private Obelenergo, we pump up resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u37	I thank you for that question. Actually, I'm going to make a statement from this rostrum today. To this day, the Ministry of Energy, the Deputy Prime Minister of Energy, aims to release more products to the market. And when we reduce the amount of energy production, they have little profitability. So today, I would think that the National Security Council would look at this issue, put it under control. So, really today, no minister of energy is interested in reducing energy consumption in Ukraine. In fact, 12 blocks of three are used at the Snake Station today. They have low profitability because there is no consumption of what was in 1991. To this day, energy producers are not encouraged to have less consumption in school. So that's why there's this imbalance in relationships. In general, there is a crime in the state concerning energy carriers. So one wants to get more out of it, and Minfin is betting on the money that's still being consumed at large in the budget institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u38	Thank you, sit down, please. The committee is co-reported by the head of the Committee's Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Jobist Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! This bill allows us to move away from the dead point of the problem of energy conservation in government institutions. We listened to him on our committee and recommend that he be accepted in the first reading. And there will be serious amendments, but in the second reading we will then make a balanced and effective document, which I believe will work for the economy of Ukraine. In principle, that's the way our close neighbors went -- both Poland and Belarus. By administrative means, Belarus has put in place extremely effective energy conservation measures. That's what we're looking at right now. The talker said that the main problem is the conflict between electricity production, the mass of electricity, which is the interest of Minpalevenergo, and the problems of energy consumption that only a small committee deals with. And unfortunately, he is a pasture in the modern structure of our Cabinet of Ministers. The actual implementation of the mechanism, when it is possible to accumulate funds for these programs, will allow Ukraine to move this problem from a dead end. I would like to point out that unfortunately, the current budget does not contribute to energy conservation. For example, the energy savings programmes offer seven million dollars in the budget, while the city of Harkova has over 100 million dollars in it. That's right. The question is, Is there order in this country? That's why I'm giving my voice to suggest you support the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u40	Thank you. Have a seat, please. As we agreed, 15 minutes to discuss the matter. Please, Puzakov. Get ready. I can't see Black. Carmazin can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u41	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Unfortunately, what improvement in legislation on energy conservation of rational and economic use of fuel and energy resources can be talked about by budgetary institutions in such a depressed region as Kirovogradina, who lives for proverbs: which finger does not stab, everyone hurts? So what's the economics area here? Just the pain and the scream of the soul. You can't figure out who's responsible or who's responsible for what. This is especially true of utilities. The water canal has a debt to the skyscraper. The heat's in front of the oatmeal. The heat station is just ahead of the skyscraper and so on. As long as they struggle and endure the people. Only the state owes no one anything. However, 70 percent of the city’s population in the city of Kyrovgrad has been uninterrupted in heat since June, and the workers of the heat plant have not been paid since May and no one is concerned. Both businesses have incurred such debt because of the critical financial situation of businesses. For example, TEC with a debt bag of more than 6 million dollars entered the heating season this year, and the city authorities owed over 5 million dollars of non-reimbursable fines to the company. And Cyrus ’ greenhouse energy, which also works in a destructive way, has 38 smiths under its control. And only one of them works uninterruptedly, and as a result, there is no possibility of keeping the heat system in housing. In educational and medical institutions, gas is sufficient to heat only pipes. The city authorities are still in debt to Kirovogradtépénergo, which currently accounts for 19 million dollars. But she doesn't care either. The government sees one way out -- in reforming utilities. What is there to reform? Everything is already stolen and taken to death. On the other hand, the management of the area would have been able to successfully address the issue of housing and budgetary institutions for heat and water consumption by deciding on such simple implementations, such as the setting up of temperature regulators in houses, which would provide an additional 30-5 percent heat economy. Or by introducing heat distributors, it will also provide a 15 - percent heat economy, and the introduction of air valves will improve the heat flow. I mean, the time limit for the totality of expenditure on the indicated implementation will not exceed 3-4 months, just to do it, unfortunately, no one wants to, and no one cares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u42	Thank you. The word is given by the national deputy Karmazin. Prepared for Paul’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u43	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget would not have to be saved if the decisions of the Constitutional Court were not made yesterday. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has admitted that Kuchma was not President, and I will tell the Constitutional Court. Your Honor, I'm ashamed of your decision. I'm ashamed that you're a judge and ashamed of our President. And I want to say that he's not the President, so in the next decision, write it down, he's the Pope, the Pope of all criminals, all the bandits and all the racketeers. So today, when I look at this project, I'd like to ask you. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me, why are we asking this question so narrowly? Have we forgotten that we have the Ukrainian Energy Conservation Act, which defines the clear basic principles of state policy in this direction? What, though, can not be done to make the features of budget support for energy conservation measures separate from budget institutions, casinos, or in an article of this law? Do we not want to make sure that we have a system of legal acts? The system -- let me emphasize -- is not just some pieces that have been torn apart. Don't we understand that the credits offered to the third party are not directly to the budgetary institutions, to the casinos and to the utilities for projects that they have developed themselves? And that would be cheaper, that would have removed those middlemen, the ones that I don't see in the hall today that took 400 million dollars yesterday. I saw some of the grain traders here for the first time yesterday. They were taken and fled, and they are no longer in the hall. Out of the way, and out of the faction, one person is only present from the one who provided a phone call. As for self-governance, Your Honor. I was making a budget proposal, unfortunately you didn't want to listen to them, a distinguished majority, to reduce by almost 50 percent the public and local budget spending on municipal services subsidies to the eighth part of the first part, with the following wording: "Requires the mandatory installation of water, gas and heat counters in the living quarters of natural persons and non-residential premises of institutions, organizations, enterprises financed by the state budget." And these should be our Ukrainian country counters, and then we pay money, budget support, just to make them, and economically. And the last. There is no financial and economic justification for this law. And this is a mistake that could never have been allowed into the hall. And I'd like to see and look at the regulatory committee. I'm asking the regulatory committee to perform its function.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u44	Pavlovsky, please. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u45	Pavlovski, the faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland, Hmeljničina. Dear colleagues, members of the government, journalists, voters! I want to draw attention to a very interesting nuance. The ideas in this bill are useful, but in general, the law is terrible. Regarding the very problem of energy conservation, it is. And it's such an interesting paradox. We have a six-fold lower energy supply today than in Sweden. And the energy to look for those who are technology is six times higher than in Europe. That's the paradox. What is the answer? The solution was to implement the energy conservation program developed by Julia Timoshenko. As a scientist, I was gathering scientists from all over Ukraine, and we discovered that the best energy conservation technologies are in Ukraine. Only on electric power can we build a new generator that saves energy by thirty percent. Plus the power plant, the power electronics -- everything's in Ukraine. There's not just that reality. So you need to complement the Energy Savings Act with this great idea that you have to make loans go away -- that's a good idea. There's no need for a third party. For there will be new trusts, and they will steal again. You have to give directly to the performers. We have the State Energy Savings Committee and it will coordinate this work and lend it to the contractor, not the mediator. Haven't we been taught anything these years? That's the first one. The other one. There's not one word in this bill about domestic technology and we're going to buy it again. They're talking about counters, they're talking about billing. Ukraine has developed one of the best counters. But there was once such a letter from our government that it was not to buy domestic counters but to buy imported counters. The clue is, do you understand what this is? So it has to be written here and we have to implement the country's technology first. Even the Kabmin wrote a program like providing schools with heat: burning cheap electricity at night is very cheap. This program has already been developed and should have been implemented, and again it is not available. That's why there are ways. Everything in the state is just mind, organization, and implementation of what it is. And so I'm asking you very much, if we take this third side, then the money will go back to the unknown. That's why there are ideas here, so you can re-read it first to remove the third side and to put the country's technology here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u46	Thank you, Michael Antonovich. Please, Gorenik, Krutz, I can't see Solomon, Konovaluk, Nikolainka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u47	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Valley Electoral District 79, Ivano-Frankiv district. Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! The issue of energy conservation is very relevant to our nation. Even this year there is a situation that is not mentioned, but with some positive trends in production growth in Ukraine, there may be insufficient energy resources. And it's at the colossal power of our energy companies. Therefore, the efforts of the authors to regulate energy conservation measures, starting with budgetary institutions and casinos, should be welcomed. Because if the market is dictated in private and stock companies, budget and treasury companies, especially their managers, need both backpacks and spices. The bill is proposed by a freshman. And the problems of any spicer are the problems of dividing it equally or in a brotherly way. Sadly, the bill does not provide a clear answer to that question. So it allows for the division of brotherly and possibly for brothers in paws. In this regard, the observations of the Science and Technology Administration seem to be well-founded. That's right. The third party's credits are certainly only to the budgetary organizations. The other one. According to the project's proposals, article six, "Support for energy conservation measures is implemented by decommissioning from local budgets of certain expenditure." However, the budget code does not provide for this. And even if we do not change the budget code, this article will not be included in the expenditure involved in the collection of the grants. That is, appropriate adjustments to the budget code are needed. Financing is not provided for on a repeat basis, nor are there clearly defined methods of restoring the economy to the corresponding budgets. As well as actions and sanctions in the absence of an economy when appropriate measures are taken. Indeed, the introduction of counters, new technologies, new boilers in many cases has had a very positive effect and should be welcomed. But this is not going to be a positive outcome for the legal system. So these are the conclusions. First, the law needs to be improved, and it is appropriate to re-read it. And in addition, to avoid over-integrating our legislation, it is appropriate to accept it as one of the chapters or additions to the law, to the existing Energy Conservation Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Nikolainka. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u49	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I've already shown some respect for this bill to the drafters. What does the legislative regulation of energy conservation do? What is the financial support of the budgetary institutions today for them to be installed on all energy, including water, and so forth, counters? It's a perfectly normal step, it's going to push the process of reorganizing, constructing, regenerating energy-generating and transporting enterprises, heat plants there and so forth. For when the counters were installed, say, in one of the cities of Ukraine, 50 percent of the energy that comes out of the potterage is lost. When the counters began to be placed on the water at many locations, they found it leaking again to about half of the water. And I want to tell you that we're heating up air today in all our villages and cities. Take a look at the state of all these pipes, all these passages, transport networks. In Kiev, an interesting moment, note. If you have a thermometer in your car outside, look, in Kiev there's always a temperature of one-and-a-half degrees higher than in Kiev. When our scientists, scientists filming our city, our cities on top of a special film, saw that all our cities were glowing up to 40 percent, up to 50 percent of the heat coming out of the walls of the buildings, through the roofs, and so forth. I think it's a big science and technology problem. It seems to me that this is a topic for the Ministry of Prompolitics, for the National Academy, for us to do everything we can today to preserve this energy. And that's why I think that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this bill, realizing that this is a step towards energy conservation and the future of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u50	Thank you. The discussion of the matter, as we agreed for 15 minutes, is over. Anyone who was recorded and wanted to participate in the discussion did so. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. The question is, draft legislation on housing, utilities and household services. Registration number 3315. Reported to the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko. Now, Valery Pavlovich. So for a report of five minutes, answer the question for three minutes and again for 15 minutes. Is there no objection? Please, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u51	Thank you. I just didn't understand why five minutes to report?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u52	But three more minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u53	Dear national MPs, our constituents! The Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities has prepared a series of bills that will provide further, not only further, but also the preparation and creation of a legislative framework for the development of housing and housing and its sustainable work and for the improvement of the provision of services to our citizens. The bill was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, member of the Committee of Desert Tenko, Reznik, Kruglov, Kostinyuk, Petrenk, a bill aimed at regulating relations arising from the provision and consumption of residential services between manufacturers, contractors and consumers of these services. It defines the fundamental rights and responsibilities of all legal entities and lays down basic principles for the pricing of housing services, taking into account the particular social significance of these services for social relations. The committee set up a comprehensive discussion of the bill in the field meetings and meetings with housing and utility workers and with our voters. The text of the law was included in the official materials of the Ninth All - Ukrainian Municipal Hearings in September 2003, which were attended by representatives of State authorities and local self - government. Much support was provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the drafting of the bill, which was amended by experts from the Ministry of Commerce, Mineconomy, Minpalivenergo and a number of other central executive authorities and local self-government. Practically all the critical comments made and proposals made to the first draft of the bill are included in the work. The letter from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office concludes that the bill can be adopted on the basis of a majority of the management's proposals for a new draft of the bill are largely of a recommendational nature. The Ukrainian Housing Services Act consists of 8 chapters. The general part contains the definition of the basic terms used in the bill, the main directions of state policy in this area, objects and entities, and the basic laws governing relations in the area of housing and utilities. The second section, entitled “Deployment of powers in the field of housing and utility services”, defines the powers of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the central executive authority on housing and utilities and other central executive bodies in the area of housing and utility services: government administrations and local self-governments. Chapter three, "Relationship in Housing Services." It is appropriate to stop in more detail on this chapter. It is dedicated to establishing regulatory principles in the area of housing and utilities and to monitoring compliance with technical regulations, regulations and regulations in this area. The authors are of the view that it is appropriate to establish a system for the certification of a fixed list of residential services. This is due to the fact that the provision of housing services, on the one hand, has to do with the need to guarantee the safety of the population and, on the other hand, to pay for services, has to do with a considerable amount of cash flow. In a year, housing services are provided by more than 7 billion dollars, and we expect an increase of 10 billion dollars per year. At the same time it should be noted that licensing covers only centralized water and heat supply and water supply. So today there is no legal mechanism to regulate the provision of most services. And once again, this is about certification, which is limited by the list of services. With a view to expanding the powers of citizens and public organizations in the protection of their rights, we have proposed rules for the exercise of public control, as well as for the implementation of audits in the area of housing and utilities. This will help not only to extend the rights of citizens but also to protect manufacturers and service providers from the seduction of local leadership. I, the honourable deputies, and the presiding officer ask me to give further as the heads of factions so that I can explain in more detail the basic principles of this law at an additional time. Is there any objection? Well, then I'm thesis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u54	Yes, thesis, Valery Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u55	Chapter four: Housing and Utilities. This section is the most fundamental because it sets the classification of housing services according to the function and the order in which prices and tariffs are approved. This classification will allow for the integration into a single system of housing services offered by the Housing Code project and the existing order of pricing, tariffs on basic types of housing and utility services. In order to guarantee the provision of life-saving services for all categories of the population, the bill proposes to introduce minimum standards for housing and utility services, whose services will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The provision of services allows for a series of rules that are now governed by regulations. I would also like to say that they are completely untouched, forgetting part 2 of article 30 of the Constitution, which states: "in urgent cases involving saving lives, people and property have the right to enter an apartment today." And chapter 5 of "Rights and Responsibilities of Relations in Housing Services." Unlike the preceding chapter, this chapter does not require detailed analysis, for it is traditional enough for legal activity. And in order to understand this feature, the following things need to be more clearly defined: the notions of the owner or the co-owner are spread not only to the representative of the local government and not even to the city's head, but to all the owners who bought or privatized the apartment in the apartment. Keep going. It is the balancemaker who has the material responsibility for the accumulation and use of the funds for the capital and current renovations. constructive elements and internal building networks that are not being done at all. A similar situation with the manager. These functions were formerly performed by CHEK, but in order to manage the house effectively, to ensure proper order in the house, the ruler must enter into a contract with the balance sheet holder, where his mandate will be clearly defined. Next question. The bill allows for the possibility of combining the function of a balancemaker and a manager, but all of this must be governed by the law and the contract. A very well-designed and restored system is dedicated to the next chapter on "Acquittal relations in housing and utilities." The essential terms of the contract between the manufacturer, the contractor and the consumer are very detailed. But this has been done in order to prevent abuses and to exploit the lack of knowledge of ordinary citizens, as well as to warn against the misconduct of entities involved in making a treaty. It should be noted that if the manufacturer and the service provider are not one person, they also have an agreement under established rules. And chapter 7 “Basic principles of tariffing and payment of residential services”. We have done everything we can to ensure that article 142 of the Constitution states that the costs of local self-government do not arise as a result of decisions made by public authorities. I'll give you a little example. If. In the middle of the year, electricity tariffs have increased by 20 percent, allowing for an appropriate increase in water and heating tariffs, water supply and other services. So the state has to make up for these costs so that it doesn't fall on our citizens, but the state has to provide these guarantees. And chapter eight, Final Positions, we've only schematicized, we're going to need to further work out the terms of the introduction of the individual articles of this law. The adoption of the law will allow civilised, contractual relations between the consumer and the service provider, define the limits of the party's responsibility, establish transparent procedures, approve prices and tariffs, on the basis of the competition to select the contractor, make payments to the number and quality of the services actually provided, raises the level of payment. Please support the bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u56	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich. Please, can I ask you a question? Sign up. Lighten up. Please, three minutes. Gavriluk, Kostinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u57	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valeri Pavlović, please tell me, I regret not to have been able to get a detailed look at Bill 3315, but I have studied the situation that Semczuk has been taking and dealing with with the association and the forums that you are talking about, are the water ducts included in the system that is offered by utilities, not only the WZH system itself, but also the water ducts that produce the same water for consumption by the population? And then there was this impression that this area had been shut down if there had not been any production in this scheme, there would probably have been a complication. If that's what this is about, why don't you tell me why they're being shut down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u58	You asked me a question, and I want to explain to you that housing and utilities include both water and water supply. Urban electricity transport and all the processes related to the provision of housing services, I will not extend them, including lighting on our streets, is a complex of issues. So this is where the water canal comes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Kostinjuk, we'll put Kalinchuk behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u60	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinjuk. Dear Valery Pavlovich, indeed, the legislation that now regulates this issue -- the issue of the provision of housing and utilities is obsolete. Therefore, the adoption of this bill will allow for a settlement of the relationship that arises from the provision and consumption of such services. But it's aimed at regulation, you can see, first of all, it's utilities, and housing services are regulated to a lesser degree. And I, as co-author of this law, recognize that there is no limit to improvement, and depending on how we, which fate will be the Housing Code in the Supreme Council walls, I think that on second reading, we still have to be more specific about housing services. And during the second reading, the responsibility for the inadequacy of these services needs to be made more clear. How do you feel about these problems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u61	I thank you for the questions and I want to say that I hope that the Housing Code will be adopted at the time of the future vote, and we will work with you in the kind of way that our citizens and those who are doing exactly the housing policy in our country will need. And I think that, as co-authors of this draft Law after the first reading, we will work on and expand the authorization right in the field or towards the provision of housing services in our country. It's a very important question. And unfortunately, the quality of these services is very weak, especially in rural areas, in small towns, slightly better in district centers. This is a big problem that we have with you, and I think that the Committee of the Supreme Council, as the Supreme Council, should do everything in order to improve them for a lot of reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Valery Pavlovich, I have two questions. The first is quite brief: How does the bill presented by you relate to that draft of the Housing Code that we have already considered? That's the first question. And the second. Let's go back to article 22 of the bill that you presented, where it says that. There's an interesting question that's written that in cases where we don't actually provide or provide quality services, we do, the consumer has to pay the costs, or I don't get it. So if no services were provided, should we pay these charges for use, or should we not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u64	First thing I want to say. At the outset, I said that today the committee was working on a series of legislative acts that would have an impact on the improvement of the situation, both in housing and in utilities. I call them: this is the Housing Code; the Second, the National Housing and Utilities Reform Programme; the State Small Towns Program that we have adopted with you, and it will soon come into effect, although the financial part is slightly improved there; the draft law that I have just reported. And in the near future, we're going to propose to you a draft law that will be called the order of loans for housing that our nation needs. Unfortunately, we don't consider this at all, because who wants to take it, who doesn't take it, who has the opportunity to make a mortgage, who goes to the bank, picks it up, and builds his own place. And the common citizens, unfortunately, are offended in this regard. Thus, article 22 defines whether or not there are contracts and services to be performed, a citizen should pay for the services performed under the contract. If they are not carried out in the scope of the contract, you should by no means pay for it. And if there are issues that arise, the consumer wants, that is, the utility producer that needs to be paid, and the consumer says no, then there is the possibility that, according to what is law, is a signed contract, the question is settled in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u65	Thank you, Valery Pavlovich, please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. As agreed, 15 minutes. There's no changing the order. Puzakov, get ready for Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u66	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. For the thirteenth year, a targeted market-capitalist policy has been being implemented in Ukraine. And perhaps most painfully, it provides information on housing and utility tariffs. If housing and utility payments amount to 3-5 per cent of the family budget, the Ukrainian family currently pays an average of 135 grevens, representing 60 to 70 per cent of the average monthly salary and 95 per cent of the average pension. This housing-communal genocide of the population of Ukraine, 70 per cent of whose wages are below the subsistence minimum, has been legitimately affected by a decline in the level of capacity to pay. As a result, millions of citizens live in constant fear: they may at any time be able to cut off light, gas, water, and move out of their own apartment. And they do it very quickly. Although in the walls of the Supreme Council, there has been more than once talk of lowering housing and utility tariffs. But I would like to know in which city or area the tariffs have been reduced. On the contrary, city after city raises tariffs. For example, in the city of Kirovograd, the capital of the city of Mikola Chigrin, supported by the election of veterans and pensioners of the city who are at risk of poverty, found themselves trapped in a city that, on November 25, this year, thanked the veterans for a 50 - percent increase in water tariffs. Unfortunately, however, he quickly forgot his pre-election promises that he would do anything for the people of the city of Kirovograd to make it easier for them to live in this difficult life. I would like to remind Mr. or Mr. Chigrin that veterans and in the city of Kirovograd are the most active part of the people that will not allow anyone, including you, to mock the people! I would also like to ask the Government of Ukraine: why should the employment savings of citizens not be used as a means of paying off debts for housing and utility services? Clearly, the implementation of the Cabinet of Ministers' decree would significantly reduce the housing and communal pressure on the necks of millions of ordinary people while at the same time impacting the profits of those who are doing business in housing and utilities today. That is why the Government of the oligarchs is so abruptly and cynically unwilling to implement decisions affecting their interests. Today’s law is certainly necessary, but let us honestly say: Will it be fulfilled? Is it ready to be implemented by the government? Indeed, its implementation requires an enormous amount of money, which is unfortunately not provided for in the 2004 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u67	Thank you. Please, Karmazin, prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! You are offered a new law, which, unfortunately, is not complex. So I'm saying complex because we already have almost three thousand laws. It seemed logical to take a chapter in the Housing Codex to write that these relationships were an integral part of the housing relationship and were regulated along with other relationships. What is difficult to do? Of course, I understand that there are some authors here who say about Odessa: "It will not be better to lead in the light than to tell the story of the chief of one of the JECOVs." And in Odessa, they've made single-order DEZs that don't answer for anything. I would very much like both Mr. Deserttanko and his committee, which had a bearing on these DEZs, to see what happened. And you are now proposing to transfer these relations, Your Honor, to all of Ukraine. And I looked at how the rights were written, and the obligations were set. Of course, more rights to the giver. Who has more rights, and the consumer, i.e. the Ukrainian citizen's rights will be less. He will be entitled only to the services specified in the contract in the scope of the contract. It scares me so much. I'm also afraid that from the State budget, it's only for the development of regulatory equipment and for the implementation of experimental projects that require 6 million dollars. It's been two years. And 20 million dollars from local budgets to organize bids for housing services contracts. We don't have the Ministry of Finance's conclusion and their expert opinion on how and if this money is legally coming here and what is being done about it. You are proposing in the “Principal Positions” to amend even the Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine, which violates the principle of the relationship of local self-government bodies with enterprises, institutions, organizations that are owned by the respective territorial communities, which are built on the principles of their subordination, accountability, control. In general, Odessa understood what they had done. In Odessa, the records were destroyed. Because they stole, stole, and stole. In Jackets today, they're stealing from all over the country in this system, and if we put the good moments in this law today in the Housing Code, we're going to do a very good thing: we're just going to include and throw away the little things that I'm talking about right now. And this is going to be cheaper for citizens, more understood by citizens and more needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u69	Please, Shurma. After him, Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u70	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'd like to go first to the radio audience to sort out a little bit of the sadness that the previous speaker is instilled in. Because we all understand very well: any area of activity, any sector needs a lot of money, a lot of capital investment, whether it's medicine, whether it's about education, or whether it's about housing and utilities. In order for everything to be more or less civilized, you have to invest money. I would like to remind you of the essence of the bill, which is to regulate the relationship that arises with the provision and consumption of utilities between manufacturers, performers and consumers. The bill defines the fundamental rights, responsibilities and responsibilities of all subjects of relations, lays down the basis for housing and utility pricing and economic services. The housing sector in Ukraine is burdened with many problems. But I don't want to stop at the capacity problem -- I want to stop at two others. One is the low pay-per-view discipline of consumers in housing and utilities, the other is the low quality of services. The aim of the bill is to establish a civilized contractual relationship between consumers and service providers, particularly through a competition for the right to contract with consumers. The bill is also aimed at establishing a transparent procedure for the approval of prices and tariffs and for making payments to the number and quality of services actually provided. In general, noting the urgent need for such a project, we cannot overlook certain provisions to improve and improve it. It's not a very clear notion of housing services -- it's about article 1 -- because the comfortable living conditions they have to provide can be treated as widespread. No mention is made of the order in the Court of Appeal of Consumers and Service Performers. The rights and duties of apartment owners in multi - apartment buildings remain unclear. The bill does not state that territorial communities have the right to receive information on the quality and cost of housing, utilities and household services. [[Article 15]] It seems that such a right must be exercised by every citizen who does not even necessarily belong to the local community. The same right of citizens must also have information about the composition of housing tariffs, utilities and household services and any information relating to housing and utilities. The content of the law also appears to be part of the Housing Code. This would simplify the use of legislation to average citizens who are directly concerned with all the reflections on this issue. Thus, when the bill and the draft Housing Code were being drafted, they would be worth unifying. If these shortcomings are addressed, the factions of the Social Democratic Party will support this bill. [[united]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Mihovich. Behind him, Sokirko. Is there a Sokirko?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u72	Ivan Mihovich, the Company faction, the Carpathians. The bill under consideration is kind of noble, but on careful consideration, it raises more questions than answers. First impression. It is needed for the introduction of the Housing Code, which is not accepted in this version either here or among the population. In the face of impreciseness, eclectism, and the art of the document. This starts with the definition of terms. One of them is the quality in the last place not only by the alphabet, but also in fact. Article 2 should be the subject of a Housing Code or a separate law. The discussion structure of section 2 on the authorization of different branches and levels of power. Among them there is no one who solves everything and everything, but he is not responsible, that is, the president’s branch. Chapter 4 should be placed as the main and 3 final on law enforcement and control. Many questions and comments raise specific content. For example, 21 and 26. If the rights and obligations of the consumer of services are more or less defined, they are too general on the part of the performers, and some are declarative, meaningless. It is hardly appropriate to separate providers and service providers. The functions are blurry. In practice, this can complicate responsibility and control. And the balance sheet category is completely questionable and dangerous. To a large extent, this is true of the stewards. [[Article 29]] Would it not be as it is today, or worse, if there were no extremes for the inadequacy of serving a population that has no capacity to live in palaces? A very declarative or non-core article 31st, which is the regulation of housing and utility tariffs. Its principles translate into local self - government authorities the full burden of tariffing this type of service. But the limited capabilities of these organs are widely known. And where is the regulatory influence of the state for the declared rights of citizens in this area? Finally, the bill is multilingual. Individual articles, in particular, the 33, are more of an instructional instruction than the law. But the main reason why the project has been considered is because of its lack of specificity, is that it can significantly complicate and harm workers to meet the most basic needs of life. Instead, it may prove to be a tool in what is called a profit-gathering balance sheet, cheating on poor workers and veterans. It is logical, therefore, to return the bill for rereading, and even better, as it has already been suggested, to include its essential position in the Housing Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u73	Thank you. I announced Sokirko. It's a good word. And then there'll be Curly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u74	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The fact that such a narrowly specialized bill has been passed to Parliament indicates that the situation in our housing and utilities is indeed critical. If in recent years the Supreme Council of Ukraine has largely led by codification of legislation, then in this particular case it may be appropriate to derogate from this rule and regulate the relations that have arisen in the area of housing and utilities, a separate law. I want to take a short look at the problems that today are the most acute in housing and utilities. First of all, it's a continuation of the negative practice of accumulation of population debt for residential services and correspondingly the debt of utilities to heat- and energy-generating organizations. It has to be noted that the vast majority of our citizens often pay housing and utilities, sometimes giving up their last cents for it. Because they understand that if the country violates article 43 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which guarantees citizens the right to work, which includes the possibility of earning a living, and article 48 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which guarantees citizens the right to an adequate standard of living. Similarly, article 47 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prohibits compulsory deprivation of housing, will be violated, in a different way from the Law on the basis of a court’s decision. A clear indication of this is the attempt to adopt a new edition of the Housing Codex, which allows citizens to be evicted without giving them other housing. The other one. Today, there are many questions about the quality and volume of services provided to consumers. Regardless of the urgency, the State, rather than the faithful officials representing it, has failed to solve the problem of providing consumers with accounting devices, especially gas and water counters, let alone thermal energy computing devices. Therefore, no one today can confidently say, ‘ What are citizens being paid for? ’ In civilized countries such a problem does not exist in principle. There every consumer pays according to the counter, it applies to electricity, gas, water, or heat. The question is, Is it possible for Ukraine to do this in an undervalued way because citizens consume more services than they pay? I think you all know very well that this is not the case. In fact, our consumers pay for services they don't get. They pay for hot water while the water is actually barely warm, and it is still served a few hours a day. They're paying for a heat that's somehow missing. Indeed, there is a problem that not all our citizens can acquire accounting devices based on their low incomes. But, excuse me, when numerous normative acts have been adopted to address this problem. As early as 1994, the Cabinet of Ministers issued Decree No. 422 on the Programme for the Production of Tools for the Calculation of Fuel-Energy Resources and Instruments for the Regulation of Electrical, Water, Warm and Gas Management of Industrial Enterprises. Even in Kiev, however, household counters are scarce, not to mention regions. Why is this happening? I think the answer here is familiar. Because some officials and some skilled entrepreneurs in paws are interested in this state of affairs, so they do not overburden themselves or overburden themselves or gain income. So once again, the legislative settlement of the housing and utility situation is very necessary. Of course, there are some disagreements in the law, but I think we can work on them in preparing the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Kruc.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u76	Mikola Krutz, Ivano-Frankivsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, as I see it, the most important benefit of this project is that it is proposed at the level of law to systematically address the basic issues of housing, housing and utilities production, delivery and consumption. Today, many relationships in this area are regulated either by different laws or by regulations, or they have no legal regulation at all. As a result, the project certainly needs to be supported. At the same time, a number of his positions would be worth improving, writing more clearly and fully. This is particularly true of the provisions on the responsibility of housing and utilities, manufacturers, performers and consumers. In the absence of the legally and contractual obligations, the responsibility of all these services must be balanced and reciprocal. With regard to specific provisions of the project, some of them are insufficiently understood or even contradictory. Yes, according to article 18 of the project, the housing-communal services regime, their quality and quantity should meet the terms of the contract and the requirements of legislation. At the same time, Article 22 establishes a rule according to which the consumer has the right to receive residential services in accordance with defined contracts in terms of quantity and quality. That is, legislation is no longer mentioned here. Although the same article provides for the payment of housing and utility services under contract and legislation among the obligations of the consumer. An important practical question arises in this regard. The legal basis for receiving housing services is only an appropriate agreement or an appropriate provision of legislation? It is not entirely reasonable to provide a consumer with the obligation to prepare the apartment house and its technical equipment in time for operation during the autumn-winter period. First, if the consumer lives in a multi-room building, he cannot be obliged to make proper preparations for the house. Secondly, the same obligation of the project relies on the provision of housing services, which creates contradictions in the status of various providers and the provision of such services. The consumer is given the right to check the quantity and quality of residential services. At the same time, the mechanism that would ensure the realization of this right does not provide for the project. In practice, it may be impossible to exercise such a right. However, these provisions can be fully worked out in preparing the project for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u77	Thank you. One minute, Orzhachowski is out of town, and we'll finish. Orzhachowski Microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. Unfortunately, I can't say everything I thought, but I'll say this briefly. That this bill, which is being considered by the Supreme Council, may be on time, but not in the way it is proposed today. Because I think, first of all, the bill should be consistent with the provisions of the new Civil Code of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on Drinking Water and Water Supply, on Electricity, on licensing certain types of economic activity, and so on. And today, people expect us not to have a market approach, but they expect the state, after adopting the Housing Code and the bill, to protect people socially, because otherwise people today have no money to pay for housing and adequate services, and so on. So I think that this bill needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u79	Thank you. The consideration of the draft housing law, utilities and household services has been concluded with you. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, shall we work without interruption? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u80	Then, if you agree, let's move on, we're considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Oil and Gas Act, registration number 2327. [[on special permissions deadlines]] I remind you, we're looking at a reduced procedure. A member of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Safety, Mikolayovich Rudzkowski, reports. Will you be in in three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u81	Yes. Dear National Deputies! This bill was drafted by members of the Committee on Fuel and Energy for one purpose: clarifying the oil and gas law. [[Kluv, Francchuk, Rudzkowski, Martinenko, Alexandrovska]] Since his acceptance in 2001, life has dictated its conditions, and some refinements are needed. In particular, in view of the change in the title and the refinement of the competence of the specialized central executive body of geological research and rational use of nadrs, as well as geocontrol, it is proposed that certain clarifications, approvals with the specialized central authority of the executive branch of the Ministry of Mining, the granting of special permits, licences for geological research and industrial exploitation be made available. It is also proposed to introduce the concept of "special permission" into the notion that there is a geologic study and development yet to introduce one concept as the only license for geological study of naphtha-gassane naphthas with further industrial development. In view of the fact that many genealogies are being explored and developed by enterprises that are currently developing. It refers to Ukraine, the Black Sea, the Carcage because the budget for geological exploration is not enough. A new edition of article 15 is proposed. Change the organization of the competitions and place it on an authorized authority by the state to professionally organize it as it is now with the State Property Fund. It is the main profile and conducts such competitions, not an intercom that cannot work quickly. And the law makes clear the terms of the competition so that it allows everyone to get the same way about the competition and not write to lobbyists one or the other terms of the competition. The law also extends the term of geological study of licences at sea, since conditions of work are much worse there and can only be done for six months in some places. It's increasing in the license of license to underground vaults. There's nothing to worry about. They're all state property. And that's the basic position. It's a technical law. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u82	Thank you, sit down, please. Short procedure: no questions asked. Let's move on to the discussion. Solomonine. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners! The prescribed law is another attempt to extend the interests of the oil - gas barons and to rob the Ukrainian people and what belongs to them. I represent the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster. I have the authority to state on behalf of our committee that this law has not yet been considered by us on the committee, namely that the positions that the rapporteur has set out are the function of our committee: continuation or non-continuation. And also the State Geological Service, not the Mintepenergo, the Naftogazu Ukraine, or the Crushing that will rob the Ukrainian people and the State Geological Service today. So I ask, Adam Ivanovich, to immediately withdraw this bill from the discussion as one that was passed without a profile committee, without the State Geological Service and the conclusions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u84	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed closely the metamorphosis that this law has carried out since October 22, 2002, when it was first submitted by its author, Igor Francchuk. At the time, he was very brief and, indeed, he could be blamed for much. The second number was the second law passed in 4.06.2003, with some details given by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. The third time it was released on October 10, 2003, and at the end of November 21, it was presented in this edition, to which it has just reported. I mean, this is already the fourth final decision. For that reason, those remarks that the previous speaker referred to which bill I did not, frankly, understand in relation to the absence of any argument. I've read these bills carefully, and I see that the 4th bill is certainly much better than the 3 previous ones, although it has its faults. In particular, I don't see the economic conclusions of the budget committee, the government that will give us the law. At the same time, I saw on 2.5 pages article 15 suggest that we put out a competition to obtain a special permit for the use of nadrama. [[even on nearly 4 pages]] If we write it in all the laws, we regulate it, it'll be very good. True, I don't understand why the announcement of the contest should be written not in the Voice of Ukraine, let's say it was written in the Government courier, not. And we're openly lobbying the government's institution, and we're lobbying the funds right now. I even understand why on the continental shelf and within the exclusive economic zone, the design and study period is 2 times more than 10 years, not 5. Why? Because there are storms and so on, which. And it's less time for study, but it probably shouldn't be that big. Perhaps the difference should not be double, but at least by a third. Well, it's a question of second reading. In general, I am willing to comment, but I would like to have serious financial reasons. Although, once again, the fourth option is an attempt to civilizedly address these very serious issues of oil and gas, so it's not the law for Black Seafoot, as it was originally planned, and it's not a bit like that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u86	The word is given by the national deputy of the school. Get ready, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u87	Thank you. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'd like to make some comments on this project first of all. Adam Ivanovich, we have here all these devices, which are called computer loudly. There I drew up a bill to see whether article 40 was left or not. Here we're given because of this scheme that article 40 is saved, the amendments to this article. The author of the project convinces me otherwise. So I don't know how it's going to get to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u88	Perhaps what Yuri Anatoliyovich said is that these are four drafts of a single law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u89	So I don't know which one of them, and I'm afraid there's some kind of forgery going on in preparation, so I'm going to point out what's now being represented in front of all those people's deputies who are willing or sitting in the Supreme Council right now to press and test the bill. Article 40, there are amendments, and it says here that underground gas, oil and processed products created in natural assets by 1 January 2004 are subjects of state property rights. So as of January 2, 2004, they have become objects of private property rights, which is not just unacceptable, or some other form of property. These are the national wealth of Ukraine. This is what Ukraine and the West were used for, in fact, to extend the pipeline with Urenga to the West. Why did this happen? Because the gas has a constant need to increase pressure, the air does not fuel the gas, and the gas is driven in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u90	Andrew, please excuse me. I looked at a project that we're looking at and that I have -- there's no article 40 here, really.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u91	I just want to point out that if this article shows up and it's the result of this project, the whole project has a completely negative emphasis. Because natural shelters are the same kind of national acquisition as all other types of shelters. Earlier, there was gas in these karst vaults located in the area of Lviv. The world’s first industrial gas was mined in Dashava, the Lviv region. So that's where he was dumped, ended up, and then put another gas that comes from other parts of the former Soviet Union in order to normally transport him abroad. Actually, I would like to emphasise that this bill needs further work. At least, I'd like the committee to prepare him more carefully. Because there were four previous drafts and not in a simplified procedure, but in the following. And I say again, the committee's representatives have informed the people's deputies more about the overall course of legislative activity around this project, so that we don't have unexpected inconveniences before the electorate when we vote for the destruction of the Ukrainian gas transport system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Hellcat.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u93	Hellhound, 84th constituency, region factions. Nikolai Nikolayevich Rudzkowski, I have come to this rostrum for you and pay attention, please. In my view, this law is interesting in form, at least because the authors of this law are both representatives of the Communist factions and representatives of the Socialist factions, and representatives of the majority factions. This is one thing that deserves the attention of this law. You're saying, Nikolai Nikolaevich, that this law is technical. You and I are the Supreme Council, not a philologist's club. Therefore, technical laws should not be adopted. I will not vote in favour of this law until I have answered at least two questions. First. Whether your law gives you the right and opportunity to penetrate new business structures in this area of the economy. Or is this business specifically based on specific structures forever? The second question I'm interested in. How many today do the United States, Arab countries, Russia receive from tons of oil from cubic metres of gas? And how much will your law give you an extra budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u94	Please turn on the Rudzkowski microphone for answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u95	I want to answer to the previous speaker. The essence of the bill is to write down detailed competitive rules for obtaining licences for geological study or development. And in this law, they're on three pages and they're written. There was no such thing in the past. You realize that, for example, we have experience with the State Property Fund, which, under each oligarch, writes its tender terms. And we want to write out the terms of the tender all the same for everyone to understand that it's when these tender conditions are fulfilled that they can get the right to geological study, to design and so on. So this is done to make it clear that there are working conditions in this market. And that's why there are different factions among authors. That's exactly what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u96	Thank you. The review of amendments to the Ukraine Oil and Gas Act has been completed. We will be appointed on the day of the vote. We are now considering the introduction of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. We have a lot of drafts here. These are registration numbers 3323, 3397, 3401, 3578, 3578-1, 3578-2, 2650-1. And here the head of the profiling committee suggests that we share a bill here that also relates to this law on higher education -- bill 2599. That is why I invite the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Vasil Grigorovitch Kremen, under Bill 3323. Please, Vasil Grigorovich. Rudzkowski's microphone isn't off, is it? Please. Look what's in there.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u98	Vasil Grigorovitch, we'll be in in three minutes?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u99	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u100	Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u101	In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers provides a legislative initiative for the consideration of the Supreme Council with a bill amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. The introduction of this law will allow and its adoption, in our view, to create more favourable conditions for expanding access to higher education for Ukrainian citizens. will create the capacity to train specialists more professionally for various areas of the Ukrainian farm complex and foresee a number of measures to address Ukraine's further economic recovery problems. I would like to point out that, among the specific things, this is about increasing responsibility for the quality of the training of both the higher education institutions themselves and especially their separate structural departments, and also clarifying what documents on higher education are issued at the expense of the State Budget. The list of organizations that carry out postgraduate education according to the applicable standards is being expanded. It will allow the adoption of this law to order the definition of the network and the creation of different educational institutions of different forms of ownership and different levels of accreditation. I would also like to point out that the addition to higher education legislation will help to regulate the remuneration of teaching staff in higher education institutions in the first and second levels of accreditation. I would like to say, Adam Ivanovich, yesterday was the first time in years of Ukrainian statehood, the second time in existence the All-Ukrainian Council of Directors of Colleges, Technicians, i.e. the first level of accreditation. Stanislaw Mikolaiovich was from the Supreme Council and spoke. And I would like to convey from both of them, and personally to the Supreme Council my sincere gratitude for the adoption yesterday of a law that allows us to repay the debt of municipal services, which in previous years did not come from the fault and the Ministry of Education and Science. So thank you very much again. And with regard to this project, I would like to ask for his support in the first reading so that the necessary adjustments can then be made, including those mentioned at that meeting yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u102	Thank you. Have a seat, Vasil Grigorovich. Les Stepanovich Tanjuk, please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u103	The Board of Rectors asked us to take the initiative to do so. I'll just count the rectors. Rector of the Donetsk State Academy of Music Vojevodin, Rector of the Lviv Academy of Music, Pilatuk, Rector of the Music Academy of the Name of Tchaikovsky, Rector of the creative arts of Chebikin, Philipchuk Theatre Institute, Rector of the Odessa Conservatory of Sokol, Rector of the Kharkiv-Sheiko and Rector of the Kharkiv Institute of Ignatenko. In fact, the rectors of all educational institutions insist that the concept of baccalaureate be removed from the art system, as it has been removed from veterinary and medical expertise. So it turns out that there's one level and there's another level, and this average level, which is, it requires a lot of money, requires restructuring of all of our theatre, music and other education. I don't think there's a problem here, and we found a language with the Ministry. We'd do well to support this thing -- and remove the Bachelor from art education. It's a waste of money and it's a waste of this Americanization, it's not adding anything to us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u104	Thank you, Les Stepanovich. What's more, it's not our word "baccalaure." Please report to the Ukrainian national deputy Artemenko Yuri Anatoliyovich. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. My bill deals with making changes to the bill in force. And I'd like to focus on exactly three of the main parts that we're talking about that have come out of the practice of this law. The point is that, first of all, if the manager left his post, that is, the contest is announced, then the ministry, as the owner, has to appoint the person who obtained more than 70 percent of the votes directly. That is, if 70 percent of the members voted in favour of electing a new leader, no doubt the leader should accept and appoint him. The second point is that the appointment of the head of the higher education institution is announced not later than 1 month after the completion of the previous supervisor’s term of office. So there's no possibility of abuse. And the final point is that a person from the number of progégé’s deputies who does not claim to serve in a temporary position of responsibility is appointed. This. Yes, the rector. I mean, it's about not being abused again, and it's going to happen in Russian, in practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u106	It's based.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u107	It's based on the practice of what happened in Zaporozhye, where I am a deputy from the constituency when there were these abuses at Zaporez State University. No abuse. If there was such a practice and it eventually turned out that the Rector was appointed and then most of the CEO was appointed. The professor’s composition was forced to leave his college and move on to other institutions. I ask your support, I understand that this bill is a part of this law, and I ask it to include it along with the proposals of my fellow MPs, particularly Mikli Polishchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u108	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. That's what's gonna happen. The next draft will be reported by Greenick Evgen Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! This bill was passed by me and Deputy Grigorovich, which called for the improvement of staff capacity in higher education institutions, the improvement of professionalism and the legacy of university managers, and the preservation of better traditions in educational institutions. The purpose of the bill is to create socio-economic and legal principles for the administration of the educational process in universities. The bill provides for the preservation of a maximum age of 65 years for candidates to serve as supervisors of a higher education institution, except for the actual members of the State Academy of Sciences. The latest trends in social and political development are talking about some of the dangers that exist now. In particular, the draft Constitution provides for bribes to judges of the Constitutional Court in the form of their temporary stay in positions occupied. Trends in the Academy of Sciences are saying that in the face of this danger, academics have come to terms with the principle of "no harm," because it could be worse in this social and political situation. The same principle was followed by our offering an appropriate warning against allowing for the pre-election year to clean up the heads of higher education institutions with the appropriate authorities of the present government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u110	Thank you. It's just not exactly a parliamentary word for "cleaning." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u111	Mr. Chairman! First of all, you have no right to comment on the speeches and you follow the Rules. And secondly, the word "cleaning" refers to a completely normative language and corresponds to an existing situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u112	It's not a comment, I didn't comment, I just said let's use parliamentary expressions. Moreover, the Higher Education Law is being considered. Please, Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u113	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! My amendments to the Higher Education Act relate to situations that you know have arisen recently in the selection of rectors in higher education institutions. In fact, there was a standard that 30 percent of those who did so already owned it. So the Ministry can appoint a head of a higher education facility. In my opinion, it's totally undemocratic, because there were often people coming in and out of the ministries or other departments, and they would literally always take 30 percent and go to these places. The amendments I made provide that a person should receive 50 percent of the votes and one vote, even more than 50 percent, then the person should be appointed head of a higher education institution. Unlike what was 70 percent, in principle, and the norm was that if you took 70, it went through because it didn't take 30 percent, that's the first. The other one. I propose that, unlike others, we keep the rule that is in the Law today, which is advocated by the Ministry of Education -- 65 years of the age limit for the selection of the vice-rector. What is the basis for this? All over the world, I repeat, in Europe, in America, in other countries -- 65 years of age, not just for the leadership competition, but for the management position. We suggest: 65 years of critical age for the contest. In this regard, he may be selected at 64 to work by 69, or almost 70 years old. But he can work as a professor, he can work as a teacher. This will result in an increase in scientific personnel, pedagogical personnel. And I would think that's the norm to be introduced into both the National Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Sciences. Because it will contribute to the growth of young people and the motivation to grow scientific youths. At the same time, I have some comments about this 51 percent quota for the admission of students to the budget. I'd still like to put it here in a way that means that the number of students are being trained according to the government's orders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u114	Thank you. Bill, please. Swatkov. Deny Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u115	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The purpose of our bill is to abolish the discriminatory rule of law in respect of age pricing for the heads of the higher education institution. Under the law, the candidate’s age for head of the higher education institution III or IV may not exceed 65 years. Such limitations are contrary to common sense. And we have examples that show that it's appropriate to take part in the leadership of large-scale science and teaching institutions. Of course, it is necessary for a candidate to be a head of the higher education institute to speak English freely, to have a professor's degree, a doctor's degree, or a candidate for science, and an apprenticeship of not less than 10 years. These are objective requirements for the professional level of the candidate. It is also worth noting that the adoption of the bill we have proposed will allow for the extension of the candidates to serve as the head of the higher education institution. In view of the above, we consider it appropriate to repeal the relevant standard of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. The adoption of this bill does not require additional budgetary costs. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the drafters, I ask you to support him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u116	Thank you. Bills No. 2650-1, 2599 and a report from the committee will be made by the committee head Stanislaw Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u117	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Nikolainka. I'll try in five or seven minutes, because eight bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u118	Well, let's do 5, I think we'll do it in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u119	We'll try. With regard to the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, which was delivered here by Minister Vasil Grigorovitch Kremen, 3323, the Committee on Science and Education, after a scrupulous analysis, proposes that the bill be approved and taken as a basis. At the same time, we have a serious comment here on this bill regarding the government's proposal to delete a paragraph on the ratio of the number of students who are studying at the expense of the budget and other sources of funding. We cannot limit the number of government contracts in colleges today, more loyally so. Today, we cannot fail to regulate government procurement in public colleges. When we said a very liberal norm that more than half of it should be in the state union to learn at the expense of a government order. Isn't that a liberal norm? Article 53 of the Constitution states that all should learn from the budget. The other one. We support the Ministry of Education so that the tougher conditions are in the branches, so there are at least two or three faculties and so on. With regard to the bill introduced by Les Tanjuk, there was much debate. And let's say, even though we say that baccalaure is not our word. But respected colleagues, forty European countries, signed, joined the Bologna Process, into the Bologna Agreement, including Russia. And there the first degree around the world is defined by higher education as a baccalaureate. And the second is already a master. That's why I don't know, we're still going to have an extra discussion, but most of the committee members are still insisting on this in connection with these international processes, but they're not going to support Minculture's position and what Les Tanjuk said here. But I think we can still discuss it. Next bill introduced by Yuri Artemenko We support almost all the proposals that Yuri Artemenko makes. This is the regulation of the appointment of the head of the higher education institution. Most of the majority of the committee members say that they're not 30 percent -- and they're entitled to fly, they're assigned to the Ministry, and we've already made a decision like that, that if they're 50 percent or more, the Ministry makes a contract with this man. We clearly said, two months, no more, for the pre-election procedure. Why? If it's summertime, you can't spend it. In general, the rector’s reelections are usually to be held in a month. And we're proposing a bill of support for Artemenko. As for the Bill of People's Deputies, Gornik and Grigorovich are interesting suggestions, but here the academic Mikola Efremovich was speaking about the fact that, my colleague, head of the Committee on Health, he was talking about the fact that it's wrong for us to force people to run such large schools at that age, and we're just going to say, we're taking the last drop of health away from these people. [[3578]] We respect the rectors. The final term is 65 years plus five to 70 years, be an honorary rector or a salary counselor, and you can work as head of the department. And so I think that this bill that our colleagues are introducing is 3578, we have to reject. Moreover, there are no more than two terms in the world and no longer are age limits. And we don't put that on. We're more democratic. Mikoli Polishchuk's bill, I referred to it, in the first part we support it and the second part, but what he said verbally for the government order, the regulation, I don't want to agree with him here and say: Mikola Efremovich, if the state did not in due course order and pay for our teaching, including the protection of dissertations, candidate and doctoral, you and I would not be sitting in this room. We accept the offer made by Mikola Efremovich. As for the bill here, 3578-2, on behalf of Bogdan Hubsky, Osika, Gurov and so forth, I would like to say: here again, the limitation of the border age of the candidate for office, the categorical committee by virtually a majority, except for one MP, disagrees with that. And Alexander Eden's next bill. He's proposing in the higher education papers that we mark the full appointment of a higher education institution, we're for it to be written -- "Transoil Ltdd," a small enterprise, and so on. The rest of his proposals we reject, that's the term. and the regulation of the government order. And the last. Bill 9529 Viacheslav Kirilenka refers to the extension of student self - government. The committee supports this bill. So we propose in our determination to support Bills 3323, 3401, 3578-1 and 2599, to take them as a basis, and the rest of the Bills we'll also take into account in one table and, but we don't approve of them. And we approve of certain positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u120	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. You're on time. Dear colleagues, as many as 5. But we've got two, two against. But I'd like to. Do you urge those who sign up? Now. Well, Mikola Efremovich insists, Carmazin insists that in one minute Hinzburg, Sitnik. Let's make this work. Then Mikola Efremovich Poljczek is a minute away. Then there's Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u121	I would like to emphasize once again what was said. Medicine shows that after 60 years, except for age, almost every person has five or six diseases. It's a standard that's in the world. That's why, if we're 65 years from now, after 70 years of being more faithful, 65 years of leadership, we have the risk that these people will be exposed to a serious illness. And we're also saving people as professors, as scientists after 65 years, giving them the opportunity to develop creatively. Because we know that the final Nobel Prize laureate came after he retired and began to pursue science, pure science, not leadership. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u122	Thank you, Miklo Efraemovich. If there are four diseases, could there be? Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing eight drafts. 8, I'm showing them to you. That's how much paper it takes. 8 to one law that has a total area less than all that is written here on the ground. I have an offer. You're all smart people. There's a committee on science, let's adopt a new code of law, let's talk about higher education, but this is going to be serious. What happened today, I'm sorry, it's just a laugh. Why? Because I want to comment on every law, if that's what it's about. Is it normal for a country to head the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, to determine the entire development of the state of Ukraine, and it has reached 102nd place, the peer of this academy, day and day?Oh, my God! If you think it's normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u124	Yuri Anatolyevich, the law on higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u125	I'm talking about higher education, please don't comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u126	It's not about higher education. The academy doesn't apply here. The chairman has the right to interrupt a speaker who speaks out of subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u127	I'm talking about 65 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u128	This is about higher education, not the academy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u129	Okay, about higher education. Well, please don't interrupt my mind. In the state, they may not know that there are peers in the academy. So, completely right, Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk: You need to protect people’s lives and health. And for individual projects, because you've been hitting on me all along. I am firmly opposed to what was proposed, say, by the National Deputy One. What was proposed was to remove from the Higher Education Act a situation whereby the number of students admitted to the first year of education at higher education institutions of state and municipal property should be at least 51 percent of the total number of students. What does that mean? This means that socially vulnerable people will not have access to free higher education. That's it! They are starving, they are underdressed today, they will not be able to learn and have hope for the better. So I think that Alexander Eden of "Edi" should take his project back. I think the government should think a little bit about whether it's worth making changes where the proposal to delete part four of article 23, which is once again about the 52 percent quota for first-grading students, because you can't do that, is a violation of the constitutional rights of citizens. What's happening with the Greens and Grigorovitch project is that I love Mrs. Grigorovich very much, she's a very serious woman, too. But I don't think a project can be distributed to candidates with actual members of the State Academy of Sciences. No, this law should apply to either everyone or not all. Or make an exception for members of parliament, and that is what it really is. We have such honorary rectors who run everything. So let's not do that, and you also have to call off your window project, both Gornik and Grigorovich. It's justice for me, although I love them very much and these are my friends. So, honourable national MPs, I would ask the committee to take over both the first reading and the whole reading. And don't give us more than 8 laws like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u131	And I'd ask. Adam Ivanovich, this is for you. You know, who doesn't really speak, that's article 6.2. 13 The Rules state that "proposals for a bill proposed in the first reading or alternative shall be made by persons who have the right to legislative initiative no later than 14 days after the Supreme Council's decision to be included in the agenda." Here today are included projects that are involved in a violation of this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u132	For example.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u133	That's why. I'll show you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u134	Turn off the microphone. Yuri Anatolyovich, you're going to come up and show me, but that's not true. Yeah, that's not true. Yeah, so, like we agreed, just a minute from Peckleshanko, then Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u135	I would like to take this opportunity to thank you. Vassili Grigoryevich, I want to thank you and Nikolaenko for making the efforts of these two people sound proud today's high school in Ukraine. I'd like to say this. First of all, I think I should. The law should take into account the mechanism for the objective admission of students, especially of State universities. Regrettably, there is not so much knowledge of the student as of the purses and parental position that is often taken into account in the reception. We need to find these mechanisms. Knowledge is good, but we must take into account the situation, and there must be a quota, in my view, not less than 30 per cent for orphans and young people. It also requires that. Democratization issues. All should be taken into account, but the staff decision control package should remain with the Ministry. You don't have to make the ministry a wedding general. One more question. I am in favour of democratic principles for today's competition in this market. And colleges such as Zaporozhye Humanitarian University deserve attention. At the same time, the opening of a private vase today became easier than the opening of a commercial tent. Therefore, I ask you to take these comments into account, and I wish to wish the drafters: unite.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u136	Hinzburg. Grigorovich's behind her.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u137	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Communist faction, Hinzburg, Conothopian constituency I, too, have joined the previous speaker and I understand that the position of the Minister of Education and the Head of the Committee depends on the fact that today there is still a State-of-the-art commission to study our students, which can still provide higher education for the poor, who somehow have abilities but have no money. And thank you for removing those articles from the proposed law. I'd like to say something else. If only a law had been passed that criminalized the people on the ground, including the leaders of the city, district and cabinet of ministers, who appointed such personnel for schools today, where party leaders were involved. In my honor, I have a six-year-old who's doing that. And they suffer from this collective, they suffer from teachers, they suffer children, and no one can do anything. It is a wish that such a criminal law should be planted.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u138	Please, Gigorovitch, follow her, Sitnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u139	Lilia Grigorovich, Victor Yushchenk's faction, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to support the suggestions made by colleagues. And to say: Why is it necessary at all to make changes to the Education Law? Because it doesn't change what's dead and what's in place. Life certainly brings adjustments. And in view of that, I would like to support the proposal made by Nikolay Ephremovich Polishchuk regarding the fact that we are increasing the percentage of those members of the team who should vote for their Rector. It is absolutely acceptable and appropriate to suggest that a government order should still take place. And it has to take place in its social quota, not in some kind of antisocial, if that's the case. In the end, it's about age. Dear friends, we are talking about very deserving and respectable people today. Of course, you can take one side of the argument that someone’s age is limited to the age of the academy. But it's obviously a good academic, if that's true. You can also call the honorary academic Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky and say that God give everyone the biological clock he has. In view of that, of course, we are in favour of a democratic procedure. And the democratic procedure is when the arguments go "for", the arguments go "against" and the parliament takes a decision. This is the kind of democratic procedure that our voters expect of us on every issue. I, and in my opinion, would be very appropriate, taking into account all the circumstances: and those that have occurred, let's say, during the last year with the selection of rectors, so that perhaps a decision can be made, as in some countries, by law, in the issues of ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, Sitnik, follow him, School and Mihovich, and we're done. But please for one minute, because I'm going to interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u141	Dearly respected colleagues, I am convinced that in every field, including scientific or educational, a new generation should come to power wherever it may be. The other one. It is certainly difficult to solve the problem for us, MPs, if there are people in Ukraine who hold two important positions in the 86th year, important positions, responsible positions. There can be no argument for such an order. And the third. I'm convinced that we disrespect the next generation, we don't just respect it, if it's very difficult for people of the 45-year-olds to get through, even if they're more capable than those who are now in charge of 10, 20, 30, 40 years. And that's why the law was the only right thing that allowed people over 65 or 70 years of age to rest, raising the next generation of graduate students, PhD students and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u142	Thank you. Thank you, Bones Mercuryovich. Thank you. Please, School, follow him, Mihovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u143	Thank you. The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Of course, so do I. You know, it's easier for me to talk about how a young person in this situation is always on the road to young people. Here, indeed, we need to give way to a younger generation that could develop science because it needs such development. And no one is expelling these people from science, but they are asked to release their managerial positions in connection with age, for it can really be easy to manage at 86 years of age, but it is difficult to learn from it. And to the end. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasize. There is, using what is the Minister of Education, until we have our entrance exams and state exams in the state language, we can only talk about the rudimentary manifestations of the past. We need to determine whether we are building one society or another, or we are already saying that Ukrainian language is a rudimentary, survival, and it is a secondary, or we respect, and at least the higher school is obliged to respect it. And let there be higher schools where other languages can be obtained, but preserve the right of state schools to grant diplomas only in the national language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u144	Thank you. Mihovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear Vassil Grigorovovich, you had the opportunity to work at the Soviet High School, and you remember what was a clear system of preparation, selection, approval, control of the performance of the senior staff. Today's discussion shows that it is obviously appropriate for us to go back to this issue and perhaps a separate legislative act, or a government act, to make as much possible in this matter as possible, in order to bring about an order, a system. In particular, I would like to take into account nonstate bonds in this work. Because you know, and you've said that there's a lot of order, that there's a lot of random people who're not qualified, and that's what's causing the low quality of the learning process, the promotion of scientific work, the manifestations of corruption, and so on. So I think it might be appropriate to think about the only legislative or normative act on the management system in your field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u146	Please, 30 seconds Black man insists and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Cherniak, "Our Ukraine" faction. We have every reason to be enthusiastic about supporting this bill and voting for it without disgust, as we sometimes do. It's really on time. Especially two important orders are a government order. This requires that it be possible for young professionals, prospective professionals, prospects, and work both in education and in science. And the second is especially important. This is a age limit for leadership positions. The academics said, "Let's go get some rest." Why? Let them work. In science, it is possible to work in education without necessarily taking the lead. You just have to open the way to the younger ones, give them the opportunity to give prospective people a hug. No teeth and claws, no fingernails to hold on to and hold it, no access to young people. Work hard as long as you have the strength, but take the lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u148	Thank you. But live to be their age, perhaps you will talk about something else. The question is closed. In general, we should thank the committee for taking such an initiative that it has actually brought together nine laws that relate to one law. The critical point to the address here is that the committee shouldn't have made a statement because the committee had no right to draw together, because they were the authors of the legislative initiative. And everyone has the right to submit a bill. And the committee would like to thank us for discussing them together and for making decisions on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, let's say that we would have to, if the Minister of the APC had been sitting here for a long time, he has two bills, if we would have looked at them for two or three minutes, because there's only one term? Then Stretovic's two words is a bill, and then they'd go to the Vault. Please, Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. The question is: a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on responsibility for infringements of seed, plant and plant rights legislation. This is registration number 3686. And the second bill is to amend article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Fish and Other Water Living Resources and Food Products. [[on quality control and export security]] It's 3633. Sergey Mikolayovich, please, about one and the other briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u149	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Adam Ivanovich and the distinguished national deputies! To implement the laws of Ukraine on seed and gardening, the "Protection of Plant Variety" has been submitted to your draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Violations of Seed and Plantation Legislation and Protection of Plant Variety. The bill is in agreement with the interested ministry and other central executive authorities without notice. The purpose of this law is to ensure the increase in crop yield and the stability of food production through the creation of regulatory and legal conditions for the development of national plant selection as a significant factor in the food security of the state. What is evident, if briefly, is the need for increased state control and responsibility to comply with the rules of applicable intellectual property legislation. Plants. The law is proposed. First. To determine whether to deal with administrative offences in seedlings and inseminations. That is, in the seed of agriculture, the official persons of state and seed inspection. In the seedlings, the planting of fruit and berries by government officials. Inspections. In the seedlings of forest plants, they are officials of state forestry inspections. In the seeding and planting of floral decorative — officials of the state’s floral decorative inspection. And the second. Allowing public officials of plant rights authorities the right to draw up administrative protocols is article 225 so that these protocols are referred to the court to deal with cases of infringements of plant rights legislation. This is article 52.2. Or to state seed inspections to deal with cases of infringement of seed legislation, article 238.3. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to support this bill. He's very clear here, reflecting what we need in terms of administrative misconduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u150	Yes, please, about the fish and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u151	Respectable national MPs, Ukrainian laws on the quality and safety of food and food commodities, and on fish and other aquatic living food resources are provided for State control and supervision of the quality and safety of fishery and food products, including those exported to EU countries, by specially authorized authorities in the field of health care, consumer protection, standardization, metrology, certification, veterinary medicine, and picture of plants. Negative trends in exports of fish products of Ukrainian origin, as well as the lack of the necessary international authorisation to implement it, including to EU countries, have forced the Cabinet of Ministers to adopt a decision, a corresponding decision determining that the State Department of Veterinary Medicine is the only body that controls the quality and safety of exported fish products, since such products are in fact accompanied by an international veterinary certificate. The definition of a single body on export quality and safety control is also subject to the requirements of international legislation, including agreements on the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures by WTO member countries and other legislation. Furthermore, section 5, paragraph 6, of the General Guidelines for the Government of a Third Country on rules for the importation of live animals and animal products into the European Union from third countries, which has been granted to Ukraine by the European Commission of the Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Rights, provides that the authorization of the official service of Ukraine, which determines the quality and safety of fish, other aquatic living resources and food products to be exported, should be laid down in the laws of the State. The existence in Ukraine of what I call a vague system of control over the safety of animal products results in non-tariff regulation of the export of agricultural products, an extension of the necessary laboratory research and additional, unfortunately, financial costs. In our country, the National Veterinary Service is responsible for protecting the state’s territory from causing particularly dangerous animal diseases and ensuring a stable epidemiological situation. The Service has, accordingly, operational information about the world’s episode, and accordingly gives permission to import, export, and produce animal origin in Ukraine. So we note that there is a need to determine in Ukraine the functioning of the single competent authority of the State in determining the quality and safety of fish products exported to EU countries. Once again, I stress that one, and only one, competent authority should be responsible. Therefore, we ask for support from the Ministry, the Cabinet of Ministers on the need for the adoption of a Ukrainian law amending article 11 on fish and other living resources and food products. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u152	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! For the record, I'm going to continue for 15 minutes in a session that we don't steal "different" from each other. So let's say at the time we're taking, we're going to continue by 15. Dear colleagues! Here, for two bills, the same national MPs were enrolled. Who insists on speaking out of those who sign up? One, two. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, do you insist on the performance? Please, Karmazin. After him, Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u153	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Please stop the meter and count my time because of the procedure. Dear Adam Ivanovich, how can the Administrative Code be combined with the Fish Act? You know, Adam Ivanovich, well, we haven't done that before, well, even Stalin, who was, you know, the best geneticist, couldn't do that. I understand that Martinyuk is a better geneticist today than Stalin. But please, I want it to go into protocol, I want it to be a regulatory committee. Where is Matthew, where is Sas, where are these people, what do they get the money for? We don't have a regulatory committee. They're not at work all the time. Why they do not pay attention to the violation of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u154	Yuri Anatolyovich, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u155	I'm asking genetics, I'm sorry, you're a geneticist today, you're not in charge today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u156	Yuri Anatolyovich, I have the right to stop your speech. Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u157	You have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u158	I'm gonna say it again. The question under discussion is right and must speak in substance of the law. That's the first one. We'll talk about genetics later. The other one. I put them together because one reporter. You have the right to speak on one bill and to participate in another. We do not deprive ourselves of such an opportunity. To prevent the interviewer from going to the rostrum twice, he reported to each other. Yuri Anatolyevich, please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u159	Adam Ivanovich, it's already a class. It's as straight as Odessa. Dear friends! I'm not going to use 2 minutes, I just want things to be like people, not like us. The Law on Amendments to the Code on Administrative Offences on Liability for Offences in the Field of Seed, Plantation and Plant Variety of July 1, 2003, introduced by Kabmin, as all laws are enacted by Kabmin, has only a precise or frameworkal meaning because Kabmin lacks vision. It is I who have nothing to say to the minister who has reported absolutely nothing. I only have to see the minister. to the Prime Minister. We need to make some changes to the legislation. The project proposes to make changes to article 104 and proposes to establish the administrative responsibility for the production of garden material. Not just for violating the conditions of the seed. I don't think there's anything to be punished for. God damn it, they're making! In turn, if there is a violation of the family’s conditions, there should be a measure of responsibility. A protocol will be drawn up by the official body responsible for the protection of plant rights and the rights violations of plant varieties will be determined not only by the authorities of the Internal Affairs, the tax authorities, but also by the authorities of the State for the protection of plant rights. Thus, it will be even more difficult for our laborers. With regard to Law 3633 on making changes to Article 11, I will also unite, as you say, "The fish, other aquatic living resources and food products of them," and I would stress that you, the national MPs, remember that we only adopted it recently - February 6, 2003. And we're making changes there today. Why? It seems that changes are only necessary to allow control and supervision of the quality and safety of fish and food products intended for export, to refer to the competence of the State Department of Veterinary Medicine. And I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, because of smuggling today, all the markets are closed for four days now in Kiev, for example, because they're shaking, searching, and the prices for fish have risen. And you and I are thinking, who's gonna control it? I believe that in view of the periodic change in the names and competences of the central executive authorities, in the text of the draft, the words “State Department of Veterinary Medicine” should be replaced by the words “central authority of executive authority in the area of control of fish quality and safety”. Unfortunately, smuggling and everything will not be affected, but it would be desirable. And I encourage the government to approach it in a comprehensive way to prepare legislation and not use Parliament as a sewer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u160	Thank you, Yuri Anatoliovich, for the excellent combination of two bills that you said were impossible in one speech. Please, Puzakov, follow him Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u161	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Not so long ago in Kirovograd, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mihajlovich, stated: "With agrarian reforms in Ukraine, they are late for thirty years and the main thing is that this is only the first stage of land reform" -- the end of the quote. It's a good thing it's just the first one. Well, I'd like to know, they're going to be reforming at the second stage of "scientists" in quotes: Sabuluki, Hadewicki, Gladys. It's all ruined and looted. Although the head of the Association of Cross-sorts, Kazak said that the Association supported the APC reformers' course, because they created a foundation for highly efficient collective farms and special radicals for seeding and planting. That's the basis, and we're bringing the seeds from abroad, buying them for the currency. I would like to know how this bill, without needing financial rules, will ensure the stability of the economy, the welfare of society and the food security of the state. Of course, the money will go away, but as always, it will not go into the wallet. And once again, I emphasize that late you, Sergey Mikolaiovich, are going to draw on the responsibility of officials. When I spoke several times from this rostrum about the looting of wealthy farms in the Kirovograd of the Valley Fertility, which for more than 40 years had been engaged in the cultivation of orchards and fruits, and which is now being bankrupt to be adopted for free of charge. Why no one in power has responded or stopped these crimes that are being created to this day. Don't the authorities know about this? Doesn't she know that savvy businesses create their own concerts, corporations based on broken farms? By abusing the service position of the head of Kirovogradsadvinprom Sidorenko instead of the repayment by the progenitor, which is part of this concert, the debt for the produce he receives, he creates his own firm, which is founded by his wife. This couple causes the Valley Fertility a tremendous amount of material damage, extending and charging their own pocket to about 110,000 dollars, causing damage to the enterprise. And all the power is seen through his fingers, giving people and the wealth he created to dissipate experimenters with frozen faces. That's the first question. Secondly, I wanted to say that at every turn you see that no one as an average citizen cares about what he eats, how he lives, what health problems, whether he has enough pensions or income to keep his family alive. Well, take the addition to article 11 of the Ukrainian Fish and Fish Products Act, and I'll literally read, "State control and supervision of the quality and safety of fish, other aquatic living resources and food products, which are intended for export, is carried out by the State Department of Veterinary Medicine." So what happens when you export products, you have veterinary medicine control. And when you bring this product from Mikolayev to Kyrovgrad, you can tear apart any crates, crushed, salted, and still smelling fish, and sell them quietly. And no control. I was reminded of the words of the first President of independent Ukraine, who in a dream saw this sovereignty that Ukraine has huge fish stocks in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas, that this is one of the main foods for feeding our people. Well, let's see if a pensioner can use the seafood often in his diet. Of course not, because prices are high. And they keep growing. The price of a black sea tux is $5.60 apiece, a settler is $7 a.m. 90 apiece. I'm done. And prices for fresh-frozen fish are even higher than pork. And there's nothing to say about other fish. The least important question is the quality of these products. Why are floating prices not set? The product has missed or lost its food quality, to lower the price. Have we not yet reached that point? Because the capitalist market dictates a completely different, that is to say, take the last penny out of the laborer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u162	Please, Nigger, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u163	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable colleagues deserve to be supported by the government’s imposition of responsibility for violations of seed, planting, and plant variety laws. I would advise the government to distribute this approach to all other laws among themselves. We often adopt laws that do not contain mechanisms of responsibility. They're essentially declarative bills, they don't have responsibilities, they don't have sanctions, they're paper. And very often they don't work. And I would like to take this opportunity to focus on what exactly deserves to be supported by the government's approach to the mechanisms of responsibility for violating legislation. In particular, in such a vital area as seedling, planting, because the future of vegetation depends on it and the future of the food base. That is why such changes are necessary. And I think we have every reason to vote for the bill. It's about another bill on fish. Indeed, we have recently passed a bill, mentioned by Deputy Carmazin, and immediately thereafter we are making changes. Here I'd like to say something else, that we usually accept, well, not usually, I don't want to generalize, but we often adopt bills that don't contain these questions of responsibility, and bills that don't meet the needs of today and especially the perspective. We just passed the law -- we're making changes after a while. Where were we before? Why the committees, why did the session hall fail to respond? But it's also good that no matter how far we go, we're sending these changes to improve the work of the law. It is about providing food security. It's also a very important issue, it deserves support, because food security is not provided legislatively, and we see that there are many food poisonings in Ukraine, even deaths, fish poisoning including the need to create a legislative basis to make it impossible, at least to reduce the volume of such cases. The bill proposes that responsibility be placed on the State Department of Veterinary Medicine. That's also true, because there has to be one lead profiler responsible. But I would like to add that perhaps we should not forget that a comprehensive approach is needed, and the Ministry of Health should, and the Committee on Licenses, and other authorities should take care of food security and exercise control, but there must be one body responsible for it. Hence, this law deserves support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u164	Thank you. So you and I finished discussing the two bills that I announced. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. So, Stretovich, will you report the law in one minute? No, it's not. Three minutes then, no. Or one minute, or. Yeah, then let's talk about "different." Please show me different. Yes, please, the word is "Polishku", followed by "Vasjunik."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u165	Mikola Polishtuk, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine faction, Kiev 214 constituency. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the honourable chairman, the people of Ukraine! What has Ukraine experienced with its unique natural resources and hardworking and obedient people? Until poverty, an annual extinction rate of 400 to 500 thousand. The beggar's wages, the dying villages, and the entire settlements and even the cities in the East of Ukraine are going to take our people to their neighbors and distant neighbors, to the same Sierra Leone and Liberia. And from there, we're going to have people with disabilities who are going to have to support those who stay here. To see the terrible condition of once rich villages, we must go to the once rich Winnitzchina, Poltavščina, Cherkaščina. The Grey Barracks unemployed Donbas is a monument to many years of modern power. Because there is nothing that causes drunkenness, drug addiction, unemployment, and unemployment, where a person lives on the same Donbasi, where TB, cardiovascular disease, alcoholism, strokes are the highest in Ukraine. Honorable national MPs, voters, see the state of medicine: the collapse, the closure of medical facilities, people thrown away on the spot, the government reduces the percentage of health spending from 3.2 GDP to 3.1. Even such programs as heart attacks and strokes do not receive a penny. Everything that is fought for today’s superior leadership is purposefully destroying it. Take the National Museum of Medical History in Kiev, a unique place in the world and Europe. It's falling apart. Three and a half million have been erased for its reconstruction. We'll take the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital in Kiev. It was a well - known children’s hospital throughout Ukraine. The Institute of Pediatrics, Obstetrics, and Gynecology had less authority than this hospital. It was home to the elite and unique medical services themselves. They wanted to get both to work and to be treated. There was nothing better than Presidential Decree No. 494 of July 2, 1996, when the hospital was transferred to state property. And the hospital dropped from 1,100 to 600 beds. Today, there are broken buildings, without windows, without doors. And the hospital was under the National Children of Ukraine program. Look what the President ordered and what happened to the hospital today! Yes, perhaps this hospital should be returned to the city’s municipal property? The city of Kiev is capable of both building and maintaining its utility. I would like to address my statement to the Attorney General so that there will be an examination of where the money invested in this hospital will be shared and the state of the hospital that is responsible today. So that they may receive appropriate punishment for their inaction, lack of hospitality, and a lost hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u166	The word is Ivan Vasilik, "Our Ukraine." Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u167	Ivan Vasjunik, faction of our Ukraine. Let me announce the official position of the "Our Ukraine" faction on the threat of national security in connection with the early introduction into the market of agricultural land. For the second year, political falsifiers have been feeding Ukrainian people stories of general well-being called "political reform." And beyond that, we are approaching a limit where the complete loss of control by Ukrainian society over political and economic processes in the state is complete. Once again, the Ukrainian village may find itself on the edge of the chasm. For a year according to the earthly code, Ukrainian land will be sold. The "Our Ukraine" faction claims that the rapid sale of agricultural land for an existing system will finally deprive Ukrainians of their right to own land and turn the people of the village into owners without ownership. Now we can confidently say that the earth will be the same as the industry that was in the hands of several clans. And neither the current landowners, nor the owners of private farms, nor farmers, or any other farmers, will be able to buy thousands of agricultural land through money. But they want to do it and they can do it and they can do it with the newly discovered oligarchic plots, which absolutely don't care what happens to the Ukrainian village, its inhabitants, the food and national security of the state. Today, peasants take jobs, are taxed, buy hard - grown grain for no price, and sell abroad, and feed themselves on bread for three bracelets. Tomorrow he will be taken away from the earth, let go of his bags around the world, and let his hands be dissolved again, said, sown grain, and brought forth poppy, let it be so. The culprits will not be found guilty of famine, Chernobyl, the present - day ruin on earth, or at least this year’s agricultural crisis. Ukraine is not ready to sell agricultural land. The market does not work for the good of people where the authorities are honest with their people and care about their problems. We need to change power, protect it, and strengthen the peasants of those who work and live on the earth at first. The village needs to be restored — to pay him back, to solve the problem of purchasing prices, subsidies, and effective lending. Inventory and agrochemical testing of all lands should be initiated immediately. We need to create conditions for literacy on the ground and the necessary infrastructure to ensure the civil movement of land from owner to owner. And only then, by enacting laws that work for people and for the state to question the purchase and sale of agricultural land. The faction "Our Ukraine" addresses all the MP factions and groups of the Supreme Council with a proposal to review and support the bill on the continuation of the moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land. We must not allow another tragedy of the Ukrainian village, which could be the tragedy of the entire nation, the threat of its existence, and the existence of the Ukrainian state itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u168	Vladimir Yavorowski’s word is to be prepared for Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u169	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Žovkovsky Districts, Lvivščina, Viktor Yushchenka Block "Our Ukraine". Dear, dear Ukrainians who are listening to us now! Ukrainians, I mean, in the political sense of that word. I had a different subject today in "different." But life itself has led to what I am about to say. A few people came to me in the dairy store this morning, and you can really see that these people were intelligent, but they asked, "Tell me, what is this decision of the Constitutional Court, what is it?" We think we're good. It's the Constitutional Court's decision. So let me just say, maybe even simplifying a little bit, but just to explain to every simple person in Ukraine, what's going on and what's behind this decision. I'll tell you that of the many options that Leonid Danilovich Kuchma is preparing today to guide us yet, because it turns out he was never President, but he wants to be, and he was still just the director of a plant called the Ukrainian State. [[A privatized, by the way, factory]] And he was running it as a director, adjusting and correcting his own. Your family. All right, here's the real option, our respectable voters. This is the option. Already 290 with a voice tail have been shown. These are the recruits who are exiled to this majority. These are people who are willing to buy one year of extension. So we're constantly being told that there's going to be a reform in one direction, that the President is going to be elected to this tiny, like, Ukrainian-scale, hall. You'll be chosen, you'll understand who. He has no alternative, not only in Ukraine, but also in the whole world. This is already known to you by a man who is feeling well and, God forbid, he will feel good after the surgery, that is, he will remain President and of course no authority will change him. But in order to have these 300 votes, you have to take 60 votes. Then everything will be in place. The Communists will be given the place of the speaker, so let Vladimir Mikhajlovich not think that he is, say, willing to keep it, I know it properly, and one of the best or best lawyers in Ukraine today will go to the premiere. And then the authorities will shut down once and for all, and then our President will be able to repeat what he recently understood. Can any other president of another state do so as ours? To go to Italy and give an interview for the Italian press, and when asked why so many Ukrainians in Italy work in hires, he said, "All the decent Ukrainians are sitting at home!".. The Head of State insulted a huge number of people who went there, forgive me, not fat or do what the President has in mind, but to feed their children. I saw villages in the heat of the earth empty, where only the children were walking, give me a gift, and dirty grandparents and grandmothers, and everyone else went to make a penny there. Here's what we got. And the Constitutional Court, contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, which was, and contrary to the Constitution in force today, admits that Kuchma was not yet President. Because of this route, the coup is already open. I just wanted you to know that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u170	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, to prepare Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u171	Thank you. You know, here I am, when. I don't really like all these astrological predictions and different calendars, years, but we did happen this year in 2003 to have a year of sheep, and the next year 2004 to be the year of the monkey. And I don't want to see what that means in astrological books and terminology, and I don't care, well, it's just an animal approach, and I'd like to be psychologically animalized in this situation. Let us not let the year 2003 turn into a year when, like a sheep, an unwise pastor leads us in various places, so that we do not be led along like sheep to the place where the sheep are always brought, to the meatcomb, so that we do not go along with you. Because understand, this year is a definite year. Because if we don't act like sheep this year, we won't let an ape be elected president in 2004. Because they're going to take the monkey, and you're going to see which monkey the President is going to be. Because we know that today’s acting president was not a once - in - a - lifetime president, that is, he has already monkeyed the post once. Thus, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court, he will now be granted permission to sit in the position of a monkey for a year. So I think that, gentlemen, we must and must not deceive ourselves. You know, I have great respect for these two animals, both the sheep and the monkey. A monkey is even nice, so funny, so funny, or so smart, or not very much a creature. But nevertheless, let us not be deceived, no matter what the values of the constitutional decisions are, no matter what is done in the courts of different courts and in the constitutional ones including. Well, we will let ourselves be like sheep, for the sheep follow the ram, not knowing that the ram leads them to the carnivores, to the storehouse. So I don't think we all have the right to deceive ourselves here. Now the main task is for the President's election to be universal. This is the first stage, this is the first time. And the second time is to win the presidential election together. All of it. It's very simple. But when we're all here together, we want to play by the rules of today's pastors, if we want to turn into sheep here and simulate elections in the session room, agree, this has nothing to do with the election, because you and I have no right to vote for the president here. Let's make it possible for the next generation of people's deputies to decide whether they're going to elect a president or not. If they do, let them choose, but the people who choose them will know that they are choosing their vote for a president at the same time. Then it'll be fair as a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u172	The word is Yuri Karmazin, to prepare for the Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I have recently received a large number of appeals from voters in the Donetsk region, where the power of the terrible Sabbath has been set up to prevent real Ukrainians and real patriots from entering the Donetsk region. I'd like to show you the social contract that everyone with the electorate of this area of citizens, including Yanukovic, was elected to the Donetsk District Council, and today as the deputy district council. This social contract is issued in a million dollars. For JEDU, interesting, beautiful. Who is one of the journalists will see who is not, then ask. So according to this contract, all that's written there is a lie. Lying, and therefore a typical example of this is the appeal of Demitrov City Council of the Donetsk Region of Carpchuk Inna Volodymyrovna, from which it is seen that in July 2002 Demitrov created a utility company called the Single Customer Services, which has the balance of the entire housing fund. Company approvals include contracting with suppliers and consumers of residential services. However, the utilities, the single client's services do not perform their functions, the housing-communal services contracts do not come into play. As a result, what is there? As a result, locals suffer. Housing is still not ready for the heating season. During the spring-winter period, repairs are not done to improve the technical condition of water and heat communication. The authorities do not take into account the lack of debt to residents for the payment of residential services. Despite the inaction of the public authorities and the municipal services of Dimitrov in housing and utilities, housing tariffs are steadily increasing. Local authorities do not take into account that the incomes of local residents on the increase are constant. Also a social contract. They're spitting on this social contract signed by Yanukovic. Under the optimisation, the number of medical workers in the city of Dimitrov is shrinking. At present, preparations are being made for the closure of the city’s hospital and the number two clinic that serves the Stahanovo mine. And there are six thousand workers. Microregions Youth, Light, East. In addition, it is disturbing and urgent to check the use of response measures to report the closure of a tuberculosis dispenser in the city of Red Army. Local authorities have ignored that this dispensary is designed for maintenance of 300,000. Residents. Its closure may lead to a surge in tuberculosis cases throughout the region. I believe that the above conditions are a gross violation of the requirements of part three of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the existing network of public and municipal health institutions cannot be reduced. And I'm proud to be the author of these lines: I'm not going to let the Yanks or the rest of them get dirty today. And I am now addressing the Attorney General, the Prime Minister, to resolve the issue of setting tariffs in the Donetsk region according to the size of local income. And I demand from the Attorney General that the purpose of the use of the funds paid by local residents in the Donetsk region, including the city of Dimitrov, be checked for residential services. Also, I would ask the Attorney General to determine the cost of a social contract, which is the equivalent of millions of copies. It says a million copies. This is interesting because the representatives of the Donetsk District Council are Yanukovic Viktor Fedorovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u174	Nigger Vladimir Kirilovich, get ready for Garmash. I remind you, dear friends, I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u175	Vladimir Cherniak faction "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Constitutional Court has opened locks for constitutional reform. Constitutional reform is needed, but what? I'm in favour of constitutional reform, but I'm in favour of the real one that suits the needs and interests of democracy, the people, the national interests of Ukraine. The essence of the constitutional reform option proposed by the government and part of its left-wing factions of parliament is to elect the President on the east side of the frat in the Parliament's session room. We all know that today's Parliament is a financial and political exchange. It seems that the Constitution must be protected from the Constitutional Court. I think the Constitutional Court will be responsible for how it now wants to destroy the Constitution instead of standing on the watch of the Constitution. What constitutional reform must be like. The essence of constitutional reform is to move from the Presidential-Parliamentary Republic to the parliamentary-presidential Republic. Not to the parliamentary, but to the parliamentary-presidential republic. This is the limit of constitutional reform. This means that the President's election must be universal. We can't deprive the people of their right to elect the President, especially in today's conditions. This is the first moment. And second moment. If we even agree that there will be a parliamentary republic, the President's Parliament can only choose after the elections of the new Parliament have been held on a proportionate basis. And only then will there be grounds for Parliament to elect a president. What do we see? What do we hear? President Kuchma says, "I'm in favour of the President's national election, but I support those who oppose it," because they agreed. What is this position? Litwin already states, "The President will be elected by Parliament in 2004." There's no solution yet, there's nothing -- he's making a public statement. What does Kravczuk claim? He says, "That makes sense." What Gavrish says is, "It's cheaper." It's cheaper to think about those words! So I think we need to put obstacles in the way of this pseudoreform, and we need to carry out real constitutional reform in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u176	Thank you. Galina Harmash, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u177	Harmash Galina, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Ukraine’s Socialist Party is concerned about recent developments related to the Constitutional Court’s decision on the possibility of electing the President of Ukraine by Parliament, and warns that Kuchma-3 is awaiting us and that further attacks on the constitutional rights of citizens, human rights. Today I'm dealing with a problem, at first glance, secondary, but rather acute, which concerns dozens, or maybe hundreds of thousands of large cities, primarily Kiev. This problem is called mansard boom, turning the attics into a mansard superstructure of extra floors. Only in the capital under this reconstruction are about a thousand buildings, mostly in the center, in the historic architectural zone. Of course, what this housing is intended for is, not for the poor, but for the rich, for the square metre of such housing is between $1 and $2,000. Unfortunately, this idea is usually achieved by illegal means that lead to a real war between residents of privatized apartments and local authorities and commercial firms. Let me give you just one example. The third year is the struggle of the residents of the privatized apartment house 12 "in" on the streets of Vladimirska. Without their consent, Tov. Tradingbudsservis, the CEO of Topasli made an investment contract with the Shevchenkov County Housing Management to reconstruct the attic under the mansard floor. Residents defended their right of owners in the Special Commission on Privatization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the General Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts. On this point, the heads of the Reich’s administration, the district court, the city’s procurator had decided to ban construction work, but the investors shamelessly broke into the house, set up forests, bombed the basement, and then broke into the house. You can't stay in the house. A security guard has been set up that has not even allowed the deputy head of the regime to enter the threshold. And they're threatening to say, "Your house is declared a plane and they're going to move everybody out." Although there is the conclusion of the Kyiv Institute of Construction that the building is in normal condition. If you generalize these problems, you might say. First. In Kiev it became the norm for direct violations of human rights, of the Constitution, of Ukrainian laws guaranteeing property rights. Practically most of the attics and basements are handed over by city officials to investors without the consent of the residents, and city officials are making it difficult for multiple apartment buildings to be placed on the balance sheet between the owners of the houses. The local authorities have self-inflicted from fighting the arbitrary construction and rebuilding of apartments, which distorts facades and the architectural appearance of buildings in the very center of the city's historic-security zone, creates life-threatening conditions. Regrettably, courts do not always protect house dwellers but protect authorities and investors. I refer from this rostrum to the members of the Constitutional Court: speed up the decision to refer to a group of national deputies representing a member of our faction Valentin Semenyuk on official interpretation of current legislation, on the use of auxiliary housing. Tens of thousands of residents look forward to this. On behalf of the socialist party of Ukraine, I appeal to those who have been deceived by this authority: unite, defend your rights. Only a change of power can make our state democratic, which will guarantee human rights and freedoms, including housing. Fight! Fight! Fight! And I'm turning from opposition to the Hersonian voters: support our candidates in the elections to the district council from the socialist party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u178	Turn off the microphone, please. John the Rabbit, get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u179	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Today I was going to tell you about the concerns and woes of the people that were discussed at my meetings with the citizens during the days of the Ukrainian People's Party in Cherkaszczina, particularly in Talnoy. People can't take the "love" they've been surrounded by lately is the bandit regime. For which a person would not turn to authority, he would be disbursed by several times the amount of money that this service actually costs. You want to document land ownership -- pay. If you're a citizen, almost 300 bucks, if you're an entrepreneur, 1,000 bucks. You want to turn the house from a dead husband to a wife. Make at least 500 bucks again. When will this stop? The Ukrainian People’s Party will protect the interests of the common people in all ways. And today I'm addressing most -- you have voices -- take people away from this powerful care that their bones are sore and they can't hold their heart. But I have to talk about the Constitutional Court right now. The Constitutional Court continues to marvel at the world: both political and legal. A month ago, citizens were happy with the Constitutional Court's decision that the Supreme Council could take citizens without their permission to elect the President of Ukraine, and yesterday the Constitutional Court said that this Parliament could already elect the President if it supported the project of Havrish and Vasuk. It also turns out that this Parliament can continue its mandate for one year. Such decisions have no legal basis. These are orders from the President's administration. It's a service for a valid presidential team of oligarchs. I am ashamed of the Constitutional Court for those judges who have made such decisions. By yesterday's decision, the Constitutional Court effectively ceased to exist as a legal institution, for such a decision opens the door to the direct limitation of citizens' rights, particularly to one of the fundamental political rights to elect a President. We've obtained this right as a prisoner, we've implemented it three times in the election of the President, and now the Constitutional Court tells us that this right can be granted without our permission to the Supreme Council, that is, this oligarchy majority. These decisions of the Constitutional Court provide preconditions for social instability. The Constitutional Court went against the will of the Ukrainian people, against history itself. We're going to protect the Constitution of Ukraine and I'm saying today on behalf of the Party, "Get your hands off the Constitution!".. I want to speak to those experts who have said that we can give the Supreme Council the right to vote for the President. Let these experts present their diplomas on their scientific degrees in. If they haven't bought these diplomas. They're not specialists if they don't see a violation of the Constitution here. And the last is what are the underlying decisions of the Constitutional Court? I think we need to talk about the moral plane here. Because each of us knows that we have made decisions that give the Constitutional Court a large salary, a large pension, apartments. Today, the president gave them various special titles, military titles, and weapons. What's not there today. It must have turned out to be very few, dear friends today, of these things. So I urge you to protect the Constitution and you, respectable communists, do not support this decision, because you will claim the right of the people to form power, the right to change life for the better. Protect the Constitution! The problem is not in the Constitution, but in the capacity of our political elite!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u180	Vladimir Puzakov has the word to prepare for Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u181	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. We are all well aware that modern democracy under the Ukrainian Constitution should help to open up public authorities. It is as if we are building a democratic state where all its structures are supposedly elected by the people. And logic: they must be open to all the people. But the rulers somehow fear their people, don't go to an open meeting. For example, our area was visited five times by the President, but it was a shame to see him take a bullet from a foreigner, and surrounded by a gravel of his loved ones fled to a room where he was prepared for a warm meeting. The prospect of the country's social development remains foggy today. The last bastion fell in November. Bread and food prices jumped between 30 and 130 percent. At the same time, more than the impressive position of the Government of Yanukovic, an estimated 5.3 per cent increase in domestic gross produce, in industrial production of 14.6 per cent. And if you believe in statistics, real income seems to have grown by 6.8 per cent, the average monthly salary by 21.5 per cent. But if that is the case, it is quite paradoxical to see Kabmin's position that members of the pro-presidential majority who had previously demanded an increase in the minimum wage to 237 bracelets from 1 December agree to a reduction to 205 bracelets. People have been waiting since December 1st and have believed that power will still make a minimum wage of 237 bracelets. And if the increase in the budget was 20 per cent for 2000, only 13 per cent for the current year. Is it a question of today's prices and tariffs that you can live for that kind of money? For a private Ukrainian, Kabmin set the standard of living for 342 bracelets and laid out how much to spend a day, namely: 100 grams of bread, 19 grams of fish, 160 grams of milk, 22 grams of pork, 13 grams of meat, including the purchase of medicine, soap, and even toothpaste. That's how he takes care of the people in open power. And for that reason, they run away from their people on cool cars with flashes. Most Ukrainians are now hungry. Dystrophy in Ukraine has been a major cause of many diseases. Hunger, carrying a black axe, stands behind millions of people. They're growing square feet. Poverty has forced people to sell housing and move to slums. The increase in the cost of utilities results in people living in cold homes without gas and light, rising energy prices. The privatized and uncontrollable Oblenergo is thirsty for electricity prices. It is clear that the current regime is beneficial to keep people in poverty. Then he, frightened by hunger, thinks not of power, not of criminal fraud in elections, but of survival in this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u182	The word instead of Turkinov has the national MP of the Cloud. Prepare Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u183	Stepan Cloud, Julia Timoshenko's block faction, Fatherland's Party. Honorable National Deputies, Distinguished Citizens of Ukraine! What is happening in Ukraine, and in particular, starting with the decision of the illegal, criminal Constitutional Court of Ukraine, means that the anticonstitutional coup has gained real power. And this bandit coup of today's regime wants to mask some legal reform, under constitutional reform. But let them know, gentlemen, full of gentlemen of the Constitutional Court, that together they will bear responsibility as accomplices to the crime of today's criminal regime, because trying to change the Constitution is an attempt to legitimize today's anti-Ukrainian, anti-national, anti-democratic regime. I urge all of you to stand up for your rights and freedoms, and today the only thing that should be said is, "Get your hands off the Constitution! Get the criminals out of power!" Who today thinks that by changing the Constitution, these are some of the comrade masters who are playing tricks on the authorities, who have always been in power, disguised as opposition, while others, driven by the illusion of a great one, seem to change the situation in Ukraine, are very much mistaken. Political reform should start with political reform, not with the change of the Constitution, but with the inviolability of the Constitution and the fulfillment of its letter and spirit! And only then. Why isn't the microphone working? And it is only then that the rights of our citizens can be guaranteed, including the right to exercise our most important right to be a source of power, the right to free democratic choices, by which our people can form a power that will defend their interests, that is, the interests of the people. And for the first time, this is going to happen from the next presidential national election. So once again, I say: The Constitution must be untouchable. Both the people and the deputies are to become an iron wall to protect her.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u184	The word is Igor Šurm, I have announced, and the next is Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u185	Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] As Ukraine's national deputy, such as there are many in this room that are set up for the effective work of the country's only legislative body, I stand against the popullian methods of solving the problem of return and compensation for the loss of citizens' lost savings. I am deeply convinced that the populace's unwarranted proposals, which were sufficient at the last parliamentary hearings, not only do they not solve the really painful problem, but they are openly aimed at exacerbating social tension in society. Once again, I would like to support my colleague's position on the faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Jaroslav Suha, on this issue, which has been heard at parliamentary hearings. [[united]] Unlocking the recovery process for Ukrainian citizens is a problem that requires a real and effective mechanism for its resolution with mandatory legislative anchoring. A mechanism that will be real and understandable to the people. Without a law in which this mechanism will be clearly defined and settled from all points of view, it is not worthwhile to expect problems to be solved. In particular, I would like to emphasize. When developing a working law, it is necessary to make a clear definition of its conceptual principles. This is a matter and a direct responsibility of the legislator. I fully support the thesis that we should give credit once and for all, that is, to determine whose debt it is. There is a position that the valueless savings in the fixed amount and the premiums on the securities of the former State Department are nothing more than a sovereign domestic debt. Then let's make this clear. There is also a need to formulate the nature of the savings: why the amount of depreciated savings has amounted to more than 130 billion Soviets. The law of action is also necessary to ensure that savings are made in a state of affairs. This is a matter of special national importance. So let's go to his solution in a public, no-populism and no-playing folk pain. Today, there is recognition of the imperfections of the 1996 law, especially in the amount of compensation. Let's change. And if many angry appeals are to be heard at parliamentary hearings before this law is laid down, it may be necessary to abolish it altogether. And this is also the legislator's work. That is, the field for the activities of Ukrainian national deputies, regardless of their political involvement, is quite broad. I'm sure we'll find an understanding of that, but let's just give up on populist action. I am once again in solidarity with my colleague Suhim: the people need the truth, they need a concrete progressive movement towards compensation and return. Everything else is from the wicked one. I also turn to executive power. There's a problem, and it's up to you to solve it. So a perfectly logical step on your part could be your corresponding bill. The problem of the return of savings can be solved only by joint efforts, but by indignant, angry, and, sadly, by promising performances from high-rises and newspapers that are so attractive to individual politicians, they are just driving the problem into the corner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u186	Sergey Slabenko has the floor. Prepare for Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u187	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u188	Mr. Sergei, one minute. Dear friends, I beg your attention. I'm on the head's right: 15 minutes to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u189	I beg your attention, my time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u190	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, on November 7, 2003, I was asked in this session hall a question before the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the activities of the government of the Volin region under the guidance of Anatolia Frances on issues that have not been resolved in Volin for a long time, and I also asked for a comprehensive review of his activities. On December 4, by letter number 39/80 - 02/4, the Cabinet of Ministers announced that the application had been considered, but he did not respond. Why? Of the 16 million dollars that were to come to build mine number 10, there will only be a little bit of pain 11 million. [[It's the President's job.]] Why? No answer. What a social high principle was guided by the officials of the Volin Observatories when they distributed their dwellings in their favor and now have received apartments in Volin. Why, after the Ministry of Fuel and Energy included the gasification of the city of Lubomil in 2003, the government did not support the proposal. Why did the farmers buy grain from the regional resources, passing through the stock market, without pricing for market economy principles? I take a stand for the famous villagers in the Volin region. From the response received from the Cabinet of Ministers, it turns out that the grain you collected to the regional resource was purchased at an average price of 752 bracelets of 60 copies per tonne. Compare what is written in your covenants. Is this price fixed at 550 dollars per tonne or a little higher? Think of how 42, 8,000 tons of Volini grain were formed. Yesterday, decree number 4495 was voted on, changing the order of purchase of Ukrainian grains. In response to the offer of the U.S. National Reserve, it is urgent to buy grain from Volina’s regional resource at reduced prices, and the difference between the price and today’s price is a thousand and 200 dollars per tonne to return to the fraudulent agrarians of the Volin region. In addition, I think the Cabinet of Ministers is aware that there is a statement in the Volin press about administrative intervention in subscriptions to periodicals. The government led by Anatoly the Frenchman opened a coerced subscription to the World Star newspaper and only on it. This is what it says in this statement: "We've set up a charge, they can get fired for failure. When people ask, why this newspaper?" The answer is, "You're going to have a little less glamour there and do what you're told, or else you'll have a conversation elsewhere." Such insolent disregard for democratic principles, interference with Volin’s information space, has long been forgotten. The Cabinet of Ministers, personally Prime Minister Janukovitch, will re-examine the actions of the Volin Region government led by Anatoly French. On all the questions raised by me, the speeches and the November 7 and the other five, check all requests and appeals, give them a proper assessment of how the legal requirements of the national deputies are met. Please protect Volin from administrative interference in media space. I personally submit an application by the Volin newspaper editors to send it to other authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u192	Thank you. Leonid Chernewicki has the floor. Prepare Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u193	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Deputy from Darnicka constituency, Christian Liberal Party of Ukraine, Leonid Chernovetski. Well, first of all, I am a categorical opposer of a large number of laws adopted in the Supreme Council, because today, I think, we have to deal with specific people who are starving to death. This is particularly true of pensioners, sick people who are unable to leave their homes and who are not dealt with by the Supreme Council at all. We can make claims to anyone, but I believe that in the Supreme Council every day, given the situation on the ground, it must begin with what we see as respects the rights of those who will soon appear before God and that they will say good things about us at all. And I have a lot of audience with these people, and I'm proud of that. Unfortunately, I do not have such an audience among the deputies, because today they are virtually absent. But, thank God, we are now being listened to by many people who have direct television in the highest authorities, and I have heard a lot of support from them. Well, at least tonight, I'm addressing you, calling to start your parents at night and ask them how they're doing. It's very important, too. Well, of course, I want to say that such horror with respect for the rights of the people who have served the country fair, and in general, the disabled, the labour, never happened. We're discussing problems and hunger, and anything. At the same time, we have a daily death toll of people who have no attention at all on the part of the local authorities. I can only speak for Kiev because I have been chosen from Kiev and from the constituency of the worst. What's going on? Free construction of apartments has virtually ceased. It wasn't even like that in communism, and it wasn't. In communism, yes. And the Communists followed it, by the way. And it's a good thing you're listening to me, and I support you in that. But you're the only one who advocates for the people, and I stand for every single person, and I have a list of these people. And I ask those who listen to me on the radio today to address me with the problems that have arisen on specific things. If you don't get an apartment, and the queues are hanging out and, practically, it's horrible at all. Or if you don't get the basics completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u194	Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u195	I am a proponent of laws that can help change the situation, including VAT. And I'm not allowed to speak about it. And let the citizens who listen to me know that you pay VAT in their pockets to people who abuse everything they can, including in our hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u196	Thank you. Anatoly Frost, get ready for John Stoyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u197	Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. I would like to say a few words in my statement about the charges against the Communists who seem to support the efforts of the regime to preserve their power today. I must say that there is no basis for such accusations. And no matter how mad they may be here and not be spoken of, it will not be and will not be. Regrettably, such accusations are echoed by those who today signed a joint memorandum on the need for a change of public authority, which is initiated by a bill signed by 292 signatures of the national MPs. And so I would like to say that our party, the Communist Party of Ukraine, will determine its position in the political documents and these documents will be entirely in line with the will of the people. The Communists have always acted and acted under our program of the Communist Party of Ukraine, which is widely and accessible to our electorate, our people, and they will act within this program. And this program is for the benefit of the people and the widest range of people. And as they say in Odessa, don't wait to kill the wedge between the Communist Party of Ukraine and our people. I, Reverend Alexander Alexiyovich, have been forced to announce a list of the former soldiers of the Fire Years of the Great Homeland War, as well as of the disabled of the Homeland War, former workers of the Prishib bread-combination of the Mihaylov region of Zaporozhye. The fact is that they have addressed the Supreme Council in writing on several occasions and have asked the Supreme Council to protect their human rights from arbitrary and lawless conduct by the officials of the combination and their patrons. The case was that the combination of bread products had come to the lease, had subsequently been privatized and had become a shareholder society. In the distribution of their pensioners' shares, veterans of labour were defrauded by fraud. After that, they applied to the District Prosecutor's Office, to the Prosecutor's Office in Demyanenka district, and their illegal claims were not met, and their 13 persons with disabilities in the Homeland War applied to the District Prosecutor's Office. A statement of appeal was sent to the District Attorney's Office before the Mihailov People's Court. Tens of court trials have been scheduled for five years. These persons with disabilities will be summoned to court, waited a little, announced, no defendant or documents issued. That is why we, the elderly, speak to veterans and go to the winter stand on sticks and churches for mockery. We ask and appeal to the Supreme Council that the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, may give appropriate instructions to the relevant structures to put an end to the abuse of persons with disabilities of the Homeland War, former workers of the Prishib Congregation of Bread Products of the Mihajlov Region of Zaporozhye. Thank you for your attention. Please consider this a request from Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u198	John Stojko has the word. Prepare Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u199	Thank you. Ivan Stoyko, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Chairman, national deputies, distinguished compatriots! Yesterday, Wednesday, we celebrated a human rights day. We can say with confidence that democracy and human rights are in danger in our country. We national deputies, who are authorized by their constituents, are obliged to defend Ukrainian citizens, who are often subjected to political persecution, social rights are violated, freedom of speech is restricted, and there is inadequate judicial protection. This requires us to rethink human rights approaches, because the real situation of maintaining these rights in Ukraine is far from international standards. The biggest problem is the violation of social and economic rights. First of all, the right to work, to get a reward for it. Today, Ukraine’s debt of wages amounts to 2 billion dollars. Today, in Ukraine, the issue of the return of their labour savings is a rather painful one for millions of people. Governments are changing, and the issue is not moving. And if this rate of return of their labor money does not improve, it will take 500 years to pay our citizens back. The land that is now the main breadwinner of the impoverished Ukrainians is an important factor in our nation. So the issue of ownership on earth is one of the most complex. Sadly, though, this right may not always be exercised. The point is that there are hundreds and thousands of cases where people are not excluded from the land ration lists. This phenomenon is quite common in probably every constituency. And there is a rather dangerous type of land-buying for money from poor owners in dying villages. Therefore, "Our Ukraine" is in favour of extending the temporary ban on the sale of land and, at least, by 2007. Sadly, torture and torture did not become an exception to the rule. The rights to dignity and honor are violated. The most common types of torture are beatings, the use of gas or electricity, hanging or breaking. All of this is done in investigators, often leading to disability or death. What are the conditions under which our people are kept? No drinking water, no fresh air. Sometimes it's in a cell. Where there should be 5-6 people, they throw 30. I'm not talking about eating anymore. There were even times when food was provided, but service dogs were fed at these costs. A few words about censorship, which is forbidden in the Constitution, but which thrives in Ukraine. Prisoners are no longer translated into languages of other countries, and they are also in Africa. As they say, the Dark Ones. The Administration already knows about this invention. The information space is controlled by clans close to Kuchma, hence the unilateral information, information and dirt, and the cynical filth that flows from the words of Janger, Korčina, and Peacock. Unfortunately, today we're talking about journalists dying in our country. This is in the background of such problems, human rights violations in Ukraine yesterday, the Constitutional Court adopted a decision that is not subject to any criticism. The Constitutional Court, which is in our country under one judge, Kuchmi, wants to take away the last right of the Ukrainians to elect the President. Dear fellow countrymen, I am confident that there will be enough healthy democratic forces in Parliament to defend your right. "Our Ukraine" will protect all civilized methods. So I believe that the President's election will take place nationwide.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u200	Turn off the microphone. Bogdan Kostinjuk, get ready for Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u201	National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka block "Our Ukraine" Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. December 5, this year, with the participation of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, the head of the Fund of the State of Chechtov, the National Deputies of Ukraine, the leadership of the Ivano-Frankov Region and other interested persons at the joint venture.""that there was a meeting in the city of Kaluchi in Ivano-Frankow district, which asked me more questions than I answered, and given that I did not receive a full answer to my previous request to the government since 15 October 2003 and that the meeting had announced the intention of granting consent to an additional issue of shares in the joint venture, I ask the government to answer the following questions, or more specifically to the following blocks of questions. At the meeting, it was announced that the Lukor loan company had restructured the Bavarian Bank's loan and that the loan was paid by means of an accreditation of 15 million euros. Is this entirely in line with the investment commitments of the joint venture? How will this credit be used in the future? Were there investment commitments made by the joint venture regarding the potassium plant, the magnetic plant, the production of caustic soda, environmental measures, and can we even get acquainted with the agreement to create a joint venture and all the investment commitments? How did it happen that without government consent there was a redistribution of ownership of the joint venture in favour of the Ukrainian side, and now this ratio is 52 to 48? Does such a redistribution correspond to the existing legislation? Will the actions related to the alienation of property of the Ukrainian side correspond to the antitrust legislation of Ukraine? Who today determined that the value of Ukrainian property in a joint venture is equivalent to 240 million euros? And whether or not a new value estimate will be made taking into account the indexation. Today, the production volume of the Lukor joint venture is one third of the total industrial production of the Ivano-Frankow region. But there were only 27 million dollars in the local budgets last year. That's about 5 percent of the budget. What is the nature of such low incomes, business losses? Has anyone done a detailed economic analysis of the joint venture’s activities with regard to inefficient expenditure? Will a competitive environment be created for the acquisition of shares by other investors in open trade or auction under the possible alienation of property by the Ukrainian side? Without doubting the need for investment in industry, I would like to prevent a possible "acceptance" of Ukrainian property. And I'd like to take this opportunity to turn from the entire faction of "Our Ukraine," from Victor Yuschenk's entire block of "Our Ukraine" to the citizens of Borislav's region, which in Hersonian, has been asked to support the candidate from "Our Ukraine" in the constituency to the district council of Tkalenka Alexander Sergiyovich. Sunday's election will take place. And I want to draw the voter's attention to the fact that Tkalenko is the only candidate for democratic power. And he's going to stand up for our Ukraine in the district council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u202	Vladimir Leschchenko. And one minute, Deputy Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u203	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. The Communist faction is also deeply surprised by the Constitutional Court's decision to elect Leonid Kuchma for the third term of office. In his request of 4 July this year, Prime Minister Janukovič drew attention to serious violations of financial discipline by the VAT leadership. an electromechanical plant in the Chernigiv region that has taken place in all recent years after the privatisation of the listed enterprise. This has resulted in the non-refundation of advanced currencies and loans, the ban on external economic activity, fines, the loss of unique stationary equipment and car parks, the elimination of colossal assets, the heavy debt of payments to the budget, and wages. Stockholders’ congregations have not been held here since June 1998. The government of VAT and the monitoring council are now virtually illegal. I got a response from the Cabinet of Ministers that says that the VAT of the Czech Electromechanical Plant is not part of a list of enterprises that are strategically important to the economy and security of the state and that, in other words, interference with the economic activity of the public authorities is not allowed. The property’s financial, economic, and other business matters, according to the laws and statutes of association, are determined by its administration and by its monitoring board. So they are illegal! The government noted that enforcement of legislation in this area belongs to the law enforcement authorities and to the State Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. But on the part of these authorities, there has been no response to the repeated call of shareholders. The Cabinet reports that, with a view to correcting the socio-economic situation in society, a mandate has been given to the relevant central authorities of the executive branch to take further action on this issue. The implementation of the commission is under control in the Cabinet of Ministers. It's serious. Strangely enough, I continue to receive letters from shareholders asking them to bring VAT into the hands of the current Ukrainian legislation, to hold shareholders' meetings, to remove illegal leadership, to stop the embezzlement of funds, property and equipment, to pay the employees off their earnings. In this regard, I am again addressing the Prime Minister of Ukraine from the parliamentary rostrum. Victor Fedorovich, is it not possible for the Cabinet of Ministers to provide this small state and vitally important to the inhabitants of the city of Storsk? In my opinion, the scales of influence are enough. I hope I'm addressing you for the last time. I add the relevant documents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u204	Thank you. The word has been given to the national MP of Baranovsky. We're going to sum it up. Alexander Petrovich, I ask very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u205	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. In these days, in the areas of initiative and under the leadership of power, there are so-called public forums, where an attempt is under way to implement the so-called national will initiative on the need for the election of the President by Parliament. The authorities are assigned to be responsible for these measures, and they are given under a copy of the reports written in the President’s administration. In these dungeons everything is described: when, who, and how to speak, and on what account. Yesterday, such a public forum was held in Žitomir. Representatives of the opposition, members of the Social Party, Our Ukraine, BUT and the Companies blocked the entrance to the premises of the district theater, where it was supposed to take place, because ordinary people were not missed at the forum. The theater surrounded the militia. In the lobby where I was able to get there, I met another police officer, and this law enforcement unit was with the shepherds. Thanks to coordinated opposition actions, which will hold a rally before the entrance, and stated that without it, its representatives of the forum would not succeed, citizens from the street were able to hold a meeting in the hall. From that point on, all witnesses became a great farce. First. It was not possible to establish whether there was a quorum for a district public forum. To our question, "How many delegates in the room?"you didn't hear the answer. As a prayer, the director of the action of the rector of the Zitomir Peduuniversity, Mr. Sauch, gave a talk on the boom of Ukrainian society, about the huge economic upheavals. When the professor reached the point of democracy and freedom in Ukraine, he began shouting about dogs held by militias in each of the exits. When the professor began saying that Ukraine had blossomed, thanks to Kuchmi, the hall began chanting, "Bread, bread!" Those who were brought from the circuits recorded in the speakers, who felt opposition to the hall, or who refused to speak, or who said that it did not fit in any of the gates, they said. A part of the brave people of the number, I would stress, of the delegates who were brought here have said honestly that this is all absurd when the President is elected by Parliament. They claimed that this restricted the constitutional rights of citizens. And now it's time to vote. Mr. Sauch did everything he could to ensure that the participants of the forum would vote with a spear. That opposition achieved what was put to the individual vote the fundamental meaning of the adoption of the document: Delegate a quorum for whether to elect the President of Ukraine by parliament or by public opinion. And the participants in the community forum in Žitomir almost unanimously voted that the head of state should be elected nationwide. What a surprise it was when the "INTER" report last night said that the public forum in Žitomir had spoken in favour of electing the state in the walls of parliament. There is no limit to cynicism. I want to tell the ideologists from the President's Administration, "Screw and don't forget." I think yesterday's failure of power in Zitomir is a significant success of the opposition, of the united opposition, because yesterday's aid side-by-side was won by communists and Ukrainians, representatives of the BUTU and the Socialist Party, whose activists were extremely large yesterday. And the last. This is about provocative rams. That's what I'd like to say to those who are involved in such actions and who lead them on behalf of the authorities, that you've been chosen by the authorities by those provocateurs. Sadly, you lead, not the sheep, but your own Ukrainian, suffering people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u206	Anatoly Orzhachowski's procedure. Please turn on the microphone of the People’s Deputy of Orzhachovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u207	Thank you, Alexander Alexiovich. I would like to draw your attention to such a problem. First. In the Supreme Council, there are two draft decrees for the recognition of Zaporozhye and Herson region by areas of special natural disaster in the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine for the damages that have occurred this year. But it happened that the draft ruling was still going through the Zaporozhye area from about September of the month. The year is almost over, and I would like them to pay attention and speed up the consideration of the decrees I have made, for that is what the regions are asking. And the second. Dear Alexander Alexiyovich, perhaps it is time to change this whole recording procedure that we have today in "different". Let's not get offended, because some political forces have probably already privatized the law. So here we've analyzed, and look at what we've got today, who's been saying, "Our Ukraine" -- eight representatives, BUT -- two representatives, SPI -- two, Company -- three, non-fractional -- two, SDPU -- one. I think whatever it is, it's the right of everyone. Therefore, we need to speed up consideration of the changes in the recording procedures proposed by the regulatory committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-12-m0.u208	I fully agree with these changes, as they say, for the time being. We will vote next Tuesday or Wednesday, as we did with the parliamentary hearings. That's a good point. So, we're done with the "Crazy" issue. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, December 24. Thank you. Good-bye.
