ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:18]] A total of 427 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Burjak Alexander Vasilovich. Let's welcome him, wish him all the best. Announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and article 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, I inform you of the origin of the Ukrainian National Deputies Onopenek Vasil Vasil Vasilovic and Slabenek Sergey Ivanovich as part of the Ukrainian Dept. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u2	I didn't come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u3	Please find out. Find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I respect this faction very much, but I have not written a declaration of entry, this is a mistake. There were talks with me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u5	I'm asking you to believe that I didn't write a statement to the faction of "Ukraine." Please announce it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, there's some kind of inadequacy. I ask you, Raisa Vasilovna, to find out these questions. Please calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, I have come from the fact that I have here statements from both the National Deputies of Onopenka and the National Deputy of Slabenko regarding the membership of the Ukrainian Deputy faction. Please, from the procedure, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u7	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, this fact, which has just been discovered, contains a fact of official forgery. So we ask you to give a protocol commission to the Secretariat to conduct a service investigation into this fact, the Personnel Department, to conduct a service investigation of these facts. In order for the HR to establish the validity of the signatures under this application.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u8	There's no objection. We will find out these questions. Okay. Let's work. Dear colleagues, please calm down. Everything will be fine. It's already a protocol assignment, that's all. I think it's very right, everything, let's move on, let's work. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules of Procedure on Friday, we discuss the order of the day session, and you have a list of issues to consider. But if there is no objection, can we announce today the questions that have come? Is there no objection? Okay. A request from Ukraine’s national deputy, Viacheslav Koval, to the Attorney General of Ukraine for human rights violations by local authorities and members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Simferopol, is being made and the causes of the conflict that erupted between community service providers. Please vote. [[10:06:51]] For 122 Decision taken. A request from the Ukrainian MP Bogdan Hubski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the improper conduct of the Prosecutor's Office of the Brovarsky District of Prosecutor's Office for the conduct of verification of the circumstances of the theft of state property by officials of the ZAT "Right" and the failure of the Prosecutor's Office to ensure the area of the requirements of the law in force is made public. Please vote. [[10:07:32]] For-44 The decision is not taken. National MP Lucenka, Yuri Lucenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, asked for the facts of corruption and the demand for money in the office of the Odessa Railway. Please vote. [[10:08:08]] Z-91 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Head of the Coordinating Committee on Combating Corruption and Organised Crime with the President of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the criminal offence against former commander of the Ukrainian naval forces, Admiral Ježel. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:08:49]] For 168 Decision taken. Ukrainian National Deputy Victor Borszewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for continuing to ignore the "Standman" orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the VAT "Southern Radio Plant" in Yellow Water after the release of the S-32 stations, which led to the cessation of the operation of the company. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:09:34]] For 135 Decision taken. Groups of national deputies - Gavrish, Salmin and others - to take action to prevent the environmental crisis in the city of Kallus Johno-Frankiv region. Support, please vote. Calm down and vote. [[10:10:14]] For-49 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies - Baloga, Mihović, Matviyczuk - to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the formal review of citizens' appeals by the higher authorities. Please vote. [[10:10:43]] For 168 Decision taken. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purpose of destroying the structures and systems of protection against the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:11:15]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Paul Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to implement the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, in part of the provision of housing for the victims. Please vote. [[10:11:48]] For-183 Decision taken. Stepan Gavrish to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to prevent the environmental crisis in Kalus Ivano-Frakiv. Please vote. Turn on the system, please vote. [[10:12:29]] For-80 The decision is not taken. Oleg Panasovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the consequences of halting the financing of construction in the area of the destructive influence of mining products in Gorlovci. Please vote. [[10:12:57]] For-84 The decision is not taken. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of construction under the state-run centralised gas pipeline. ” - Undercover" in Radivlovsk district of Ravensk. Please make up your mind. [[10:13:34]] For-138 Decision taken. Paul Žebrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of schools in the Popilnian and Andrush district of the Žitomir region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:14:03]] For-127 Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the delay of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine in carrying out medical expertise to residents of Lutsk Jaroslav Kozak. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:14:32]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Group of National Deputies of Domanski, Lechchenko, Immortal, Buiko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian legislation by some leaders of the Association of International Automobiles of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:15:05]] For 172 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the interests of the members of the collective agricultural enterprises "Shevchenkev kraj" of the Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:15:38]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u9	Thank you, Hennady Andriyovich. Adam Martinyuk, Communist faction. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, we have agreed on more than one occasion that when we consider parliamentary requests and appeals, we will not violate the rules of the Rules, which states that on one sessional day a national MP may ask no more than two questions. If I'm not mistaken, Karmazin had a third or fourth question. Therefore, I would ask that you instruct the secretariat to comply strictly with the rules of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Indeed, that is the norm in the Rules, but it is unconstitutional. On this point, we have already found out, and there is no problem. Let's move on. Please, let's work. Please calm down. Viktor Borszewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Alustinian Mesquikonkam and the administration of the police on the removal of the rights of the labour force Dniproenergobud to the brigantina boarding house. Please vote. [[10:17:05]] For-119 Decision taken. Alexander Shevchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the protection of the rights of members of the Association of International Automobiles of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:17:33]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Julius Timoshenko, Mikhail Pavlovski, Prime Minister of Ukraine, on problems in the resolution of land issues in the villages of the Hmeljna region in connection with the transfer of landowners from the states of rural councils to the re-establishment. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:18:07]] For-129 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for violations of legislation by some leaders of the Association of International Automobiles of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. And please identify yourself for the fifth time. [[10:18:38]] For-100 Decision taken. Jurya Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of a licence for imports of cane sugar. [[10:19:02]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine for the protection of the honour and business reputation of the head of the Agricultural Cooperative Zelenka of Mironov Region of Kyiv Region of Valentina Pripiyala. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:19:39]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. Anatolia Átovajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the voting rights of the inhabitants of the 601 microregion of the Cave district of Kyiv in the election of the self-organization of the population. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:20:09]] For-95 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine. Vladimir Atrovchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine on the illegal actions, lawlessness and acquittal committed at the R.K. District Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Chernigiv region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:20:51]] For-125 Decision Adopted People's Deputies Groups: Bujko, Immortal, Domanski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine on the illegal use of the status of the Association of International Carriers as a subject of a public organization in making contracts on its behalf. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:21:33]] For-96 Decision taken. Anatolia Átnajka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the formal examination of the parliamentary question concerning the falsification of the results of the election of the Hartzian City Head of the Donetsk Region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:22:04]] For-103 Decision taken. Alexander Masenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the enforcement of the court’s decision to collect damages for moral damages from a small private enterprise for the benefit of the village of Orżica Poltawska oblast. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:22:42]] For 116 Decision taken. Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:23:13]] For-138 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Timoshenko, Pavlovsky and others, only 57 deputies, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Department of State for the Enforcement of Penalties on Ignorance and Violation of Human Rights, the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:23:50]] For 133 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov - to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the prosecution's response to a request for unlawful actions by the management of Kirovogradswinprom - to the Valley Tax Administration regarding the shareholders' association "The Valley Fertilizer". I'd like to make a statement. [[10:24:29]] For-94 Decision taken. Petra Toloczka is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to halt the announcement of the Concha Zaspa State Reserve. Please vote. [[10:24:55]] For-93 Decision taken. Victor Antemuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Customs Service for violations of Ukrainian customs regulations for the import of cars into Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:25:25]] For-43 The decision is not taken. Lesia Tanjuk to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the civil case between the chief editor of the trade newspaper and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:25:54]] For-68 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Bronnikov to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the consideration of the claims made by the resident of Orikhov of the Zaporozhye region of Vera Moscow for unlawful acts by the Meshkivkom. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:26:27]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Groups of National Deputies - Tsushko, Gorbachev, Crnowil - to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the procedure for handling criminal cases by the Supreme Court of Ukraine in cassation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:26:55]] For-136 Decision taken. John Stoyko to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for illegal dismissal from the post of Chief of Staff and Social Security of the Ternopil District State Administration and failure by the judges to respond to his appeal for reinstatement, according to John Stoyko. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:27:30.]] For 105 Decision taken. Alexia Kozachenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the misconduct of members of the Primorski District Police in investigating the attack on a co-worker of the Odessa Plus Company, Alexander Mizin. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:28:02]] For-143 Decision taken. Paul Kachura to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the critical situation in the city of Lviv and Lviv region because of the deficit in passport forms of Ukrainian citizens and foreign passports of Ukrainian citizens. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:28:30.]] For 112 Decision taken. Andrija School to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the dissemination among the internal affairs departments of the area of illegal direction of the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region for opposition forces. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:29:02]] For-179 Decision taken. Alexander Masenka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the execution of a court decision on the repayment of debts to the inhabitants of the Poltava region of Bilow. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:29:32]] For-99 Decision taken. Igora Tarasyuka to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the relocation of the military from Terebovli, Ternopil district, and for the further functioning of the military city infrastructure. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:30:06]] Z-91 Decision taken. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine regarding the reconstruction of railway stations in Dniprogerzhinska. Please vote. [[10:30:32]] For-127 Decision taken. Vladimir Simonov to the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine for the non-payment of cash to officers released. Please vote. [[10:30:59]] For 105 Decision taken. Jaroslav Georgiev to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the implementation of the recommendations for amending the regulations on how to grant wartime status to persons who worked in a single household during the years of war, please identify themselves. [[10:31:34]] For-72 The decision is not taken. Valerija Suškević to the Head of Kiev City Administration, Kiev City Head, for the improvement of living conditions for disabled children. Please vote. [[10:32:03]] For-37 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine regarding the ambiguous application by judges of the Hmelnicke District of Laws in the making of judicial decisions, according to teachers ’ petitions for the collection of anticipated salary allowances. Actually, you can't ask that question. [[10:32:41.]] For a hundred and Decision taken. The review of references has been completed. Please, with a motive. Shufrich's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u11	Thank you, Your Honor Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues, on behalf of the faction, it is authorized to state that yesterday, during the vote in favour of Decree 2488, the Joint Social Democrats supported the position of the Legal Committee. Unfortunately, we didn't understand exactly what we were talking about and we voted in favour of withdrawing the relevant decision for adopting the bill as unacceptable. Please return to the Conciliation Council and put it to the vote again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u12	Volodymyr Stretović, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u13	Vladimir Stretović, "Our Ukraine", Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Gennady Andriyovich, we vote every day for 50 requests from MPs. You can assign a secretariat to create this register, yet you read it in some order, to understand at least what you are talking about, what you are voting for, and what offer you are supporting your colleague. And that would make it easier for a deputy corps to work if we had a list of questions on a separate sheet that, who, to whom, and the content of that request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u14	Valentin Zubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u15	Valentin Zubov, Julia Timoshenko Block faction, Batkivščina Party. Gennady Andreevich, I don't know how other people's deputies have been, but I've been getting a lot of phone calls from our voters over the last three days, asking to check information that says there's been a mini-explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear station, some cotton, etc. Today we have the Minister for Emergency Situations in the Hall. Please give him the authority to prepare for this matter and inform the people and, of course, our entire people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u16	Okay. Dearly beloved, let us therefore, through the appropriate committee of profile, we will have the task of connecting and preparing a minister in emergency situations. Give some information to the people's deputies. Is there no objection? So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A report by the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio and the President of the National Television Company of Ukraine on the progress made in the implementation of the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine on the procedure for reporting the work of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. Reported to the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Ivan Sergiyovich Chizh. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u17	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to thank the Supreme Council of Ukraine very much for yesterday's decision to remove 50 percent of the barrier for state broadcasters on the money they can earn and use to develop the company. 311 votes is a strong testimony by the Ukrainian Parliament of understanding the problems of the state's radio space, of our radio talk. Thank you very much. With regard to the disclosure of the activities of the highest legislative body of our Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee is governed by the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and by laws relating to the information sphere, such as the Act on the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of State Authorities and Local Self-Government Authorities in Ukraine through the media. In accordance with article 9 of Ukraine's Act, the order and form of mandatory disclosure of the activities of Ukraine's parliament are determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decrees for each current session. The execution of a government order to disclose the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with part two of article 2 of the Ukrainian National Council Act on Television and Broadcasting has been placed on this state-owned non-ministerial body Our National Committee, as a central executive body, under the Constitution of Ukraine, provides appropriate legislation in the information field to coordinate the work of the National Television Company, the National Radio Company of Ukraine and other state broadcasters on how to communicate the activities of the Ukrainian Parliament. So a policy based on a contractual basis between a committee and subjects of information activities of a state form of property is focused on the widest possible disclosure of issues under consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is, in particular, a series of television and radio broadcasts on the subject, analysing the implementation of public policy in the area of social programs, as well as the experience of the functioning of the political system in European countries with parliamentary and presidential governance, etc. Broadcasting live television, as well as direct telephone lines "Hot lines" with the participation of Ukrainian national MPs, have become widely popular among the population. These lines are regularly featured in news releases of Ukrainian television and radio. Ukraine’s national television company is widely engaged in numerous interviews by Ukrainian national deputies, reports, daily news releases, and thematic broadcasts. [[406 times]] On UT-1 in the evening comes the Supreme Council of Ukraine Journal of the Session, which repeats the next day on UT-2. Once a week, the First Channel broadcasts 45-minute thematic broadcasts with the participation of members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's MPs. It is detailed on the channels of government days in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, parliamentary hearings. [[First and Second]] Ukraine's National Radio Company, in addition to direct broadcasting of the Supreme Council's work, direct broadcasting, direct broadcasting of parliamentary hearings, days of government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provides numerous interviews with Parliament leaders, Ukrainian national deputies, as well as daily news releases, continuing with the "Regions", "Weekday", "Time Factor", "On that day", "Commercial publisher". Under the heading "Pension Reform," "Step by Step" once a month sounds. - One minute transmission of the Time Factor. A few words about explaining the work of Ukrainian national deputies, directly their work in the districts. According to part 1 of article 18 of the Act on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the National MP has the right to speak on behalf of his parliamentary activities in state television organizations at least once a month on radio for up to 10 minutes and television for up to 20 minutes free of charge. The period of air time given to the national MP for such a speech is unfortunately not established. It is also not set whether there should be a live performance or not. In order to exercise their right, Ukrainian national MPs must address national television companies and, on contractual grounds, decide on the issue of allowing airtime speakers to speak. Because of the uncertainty in the current legislation regarding the cooperation of national deputies with the media to the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, complaints have been received from members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding their refusal to provide television and radio broadcasting to the electorate. Indeed, article 18, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine provides for the right of deputies to apply to audiovisual media media, the founder of which is co-foundered by the authorities of Ukraine, for at least 15 minutes of air time per month to report to the electorate. However, the law in force does not define the term and the way in which this right is guaranteed, such as the issue of giving time for the intervention of MPs chosen by party lists. The legal colleges provide an opportunity for everyone, in principle allowing each of the 225 deputies to apply monthly to all 28 state broadcasters who already have approved and agreed with the MP factions and groups of MPs elected in the majority districts. If the airtime in a particular company orders, let's say even a small number of MPs elected by party lists, because there's actually no air time left for the head of this local state television company. That's why I'm calling on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draw attention to this problem, to this coalition, in order to level the conditions and national MPs who are elected to major districts and to the national MPs who are elected by political party lists. Then it will be easier to enforce legislation, then there will be no collisions, then there will be no conflicts of interest. As I conclude my report to the Supreme Council, I can say with full authority that state television and radio broadcasting are actively, comprehensively, sufficiently enlightening on the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll be honest with you. I'm glad to talk about it. I can put together what we once had. This is certainly a better order for order, a more effective one, and this is consistent with the rules of the Constitution, because the only higher legislature is acting out loud, outspokenly, as is the case with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Quiet, please. Sign up. A belt. The next is Matthew. Remenuk Alexi Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u19	Valentin Matviev. Next Alexiyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u20	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Ivan Sergiyovich, you said that there is now direct radiation and many of our voters are really happy to hear about what is happening in Parliament -- the country's higher legislative body. But please give an answer, and how many of today's population, which means our voters, or the population of Ukraine, are unable to do so -- listen to direct radiation from the hall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u21	Dear Valentin Grigorovich, thank you very much for asking. It also supports the fact that broadcasts are really coming. Unfortunately, I can give you such statistics. She's inconsolable. And I look forward to the support of the Supreme Council in this, and in your question, that kind of support sounds like that. Out of 16 million dollars. The radio stations that were before saved, let's say by the end of the 1980s, about seven million were saved. So the loss of colossal, although some regions, the areas are simply seriously rehabilitating, the State Television and Radio Committee are working and the State Committee is categorically advocating the restoration of wires. And the worst part is in disaster zones. Worst of all in the Odessa region, there was just, you know, there was, there was wire, Cherkaszka was very seriously involved, much of the Vinnitsky area, that's what happened. But it has to be restored. And I think I need a balance of national interests, and these connections are system-managed, and we need to raise them together. If the Supreme Council supports, that's the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u22	Sergei Alexiyuk, please. Next Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u23	Sergei Alexiyuk, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Ivan Sergiyovich, there's a question for you. A week ago in Kharkishte, with national deputy Yuri Kostenk, head of the Ukrainian People's Party, we signed up on a district radio for a performance on Kharkiv’s district state radio. To date, this performance has not been broadcast. It's been over a week, and by this time, it hasn't been on the air for the Harkows. Your intervention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly get into this problem. The only nuance I'd like you to have in mind. The law does not allow our authority to interfere with politics. But the law prescribes the conditions under which an MP is to speak, right. So we're going to tell our company that we need to find out what we're talking about and what we're going to give is definitely what we're going to do. Thank you. This is your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u25	Basil Nadrag, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u26	Dear Ivan Sergeyevich! Vassili Nadrag, People's Choice, Lugansk Region. Please tell us, here are representatives of factions and groups, often on some kind of thematic broadcast - on television, on television, on radio. As you think, or perhaps there is a point to be made in that way, to allow each faction and group to tell what it does, what it sees problems, in general, what it represents. Because we have major MPs, and they're doing enough in the districts, and we have common things that we do for our constituents. And if that, well, that's what I'd say, in the information field, that would only be useful, people would understand better who's breathing, who's doing what, and who's doing what, after all, who's doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u27	Thank you. I think you're so professionally fit. For me, I would, for example, prefer such living dialogues to just a static report. Well, it's a static report that's needed, but it's not that dynamic. And the form you're proposing is very interesting. Yesterday's broadcast was, the emphasis goes, you see, a discussion: two national MPs, national television experts, the first channel, anyone can take a stand. Such forms need to be developed, but this is the prerogative of companies themselves, and it is certainly the initiative of national MPs. If the Supreme Council obeys its decision, let's say, in this part, we will contribute to the implementation of current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u28	Stepan Bulba, please, one last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u29	Ivan Sergiyovich, I have two questions. Why is it that today on TV only hears about the Bush version of political reform, but no, practically, words are heard by TV viewers about another version of the Moroz version, Simonenka, and other national MPs. This time. And second of all, they're taking majors all the time, and that's why, for example, in the Lugani region of Galina, Harmash is not allowed to go on television, on the radio, because it went on a nationwide, state-wide list, on the list of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u30	Thank you. Stepan Stepanovich, well, I don't know how you hear TV. Of course, I understand your position and, let's say, you want more, it's natural. But yesterday I heard the position of one of the leaders of your party, who was talking about this version of change to the Constitution, which you just mentioned, on the first channel, and it was broadcast all over Ukraine. I think you can make the right accents, there's a profile committee, and the Supreme Council could have enough weights here to explain the MP's position. And it's coming out. Let's think about how to do better. Perhaps a special channel, its parliamentary channel, will then be broadcast at all. But I have one nuance to emphasize to you that you know. The State Committee on Television and Radio has not taken any steps since I was in control of the Circular, Telephone, Ear, One more time to undermine the rights of national MPs, the Supreme Council or anyone in the system of power. My only pressure is to act strictly by law. So by law, we will act and act on the Harmash, let's say. But there are objective circumstances that I told you to regulate the law of the Colosseum. Imagine: Two hundred and twenty - five members of the majors enrolled specifically in a specific area. They have a legal right, and such a law cannot be enforced. This is a request to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u31	Thank you, sit down, please. The word is given to the President of the National Television Company of Ukraine, Savenko Alexandro Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u32	Thank you! Dear Hennaday Andryovich! People's Honourable Chosen Ones! First of all, as a television practitioner, I want to thank you for yesterday's courageous step, it was not easy, I understand, to remove a 50-percent dragon's restriction that really confused your hands and feet and prevented our budget from improving the material and technical status of the National Television. Thank you very much for that. It may be too late to talk about the fact that the Ukrainian National Television is governed by the requirements of current legislation, particularly within the limits of its powers, the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Disclosure of the Activities of the Supreme Council and the Authorities of Local Government in Ukraine in the Media. First of all, it's about the law itself. Experts from the Council of Europe at the end of last year in their report on the results of the visit to Ukraine have noted in particular how the negative point of retention in the statutory documents of the Act has been observed. the distinction recommended by the OSCE as early as 2001 and not to amend the Television and Broadcasting Act and other media laws that do not ensure media coverage against arbitrary interference. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has restricted itself to the fact that in article 6 it has removed the rule on the disclosure of its activities within 3 percent of the total volume of speech. By the way, after leaving the same 3 percent in article 19, but already in proportion to the disclosure of all branches of power: legislative, executive and judicial. Now, what it looks like this year is the dynamics of highlighting the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the programs of the national television company. I'm asking you to focus now on the board or, as we call it, on the monitor, and the numbers will sound. So the total volume of speech in the first quarter of this year was 1,547 hours, of which 58.6 percent is the Supreme Council, or 3.8 percent. If we talk, let's look at the third column, we'll see that these numbers apply to March of this year. The total number of languages spoken by the National Television Company was 410.9 hours, of which the Supreme Council was 20.8 hours, accounting for up to a total of 5.1 percent. And here were the figures for the presentation of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine during 2002. I ask you to turn your attention back on the board. And you'll see that the Supreme Council has made up 2 percent of the total speaking, and the President of Ukraine's disclosure is 0.7 percent. . and the Cabinet of Ministers is 0.3. I'm using the statistical data that's in the National Television of Ukraine, this data that's given to the employees of Plan Economics, you have the right to check it out. Even a passing analysis of both tables shows, first of all, that there is a clear distortion in the total amount of coverage in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's different. On the trend of increasing the drinking weight of the airtime devoted to highlighting the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, we do not have to walk far. On April 14, this year, on April 16, there were as many as two parliamentary hearings of seven hours of speech. On Wednesday, Friday, I speak last Wednesday, May 21, the morning broadcast of a special session, you remember, it was dedicated to the topic of famine, after lunch parliamentary hearings, the total volume of six hours of speech. Now on the implementation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council ruling of February 20th of this year, which, I recall, obliges the National Television six times a week between the 19th and 20th hours to place a 45-minute program that, by the way, has no name, but I'll talk about it a little bit later. For me, it's still a mystery why from the 19th, why exactly 45 minutes, not 60 or, let's say, 30. Why none of the national MPs, let's say they did not ask the profile committee before voting, but what the National Television is planning to broadcast at that time, whether it has any commitment to partners, and whether the Supreme Council's decision will be a force majeure. After all, why did the authors of the decree fail to calculate whether or not there would be an imbalance in the activity of various branches of government? Why not examine whether there is a similar situation elsewhere in the world. In Russia, where parliamentary time is just 1 hour a week. At first, NTCU’s actions are aimed at its unequivocal execution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on March 11th, 2 days after the decision was given, the National Television Company addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with a letter that had to accept the specified time of these programs -- 19:15, 8:00. The same letter contained an urgent request for a draft agreement. I'd like to add another three or five minutes. I'm sorry, I was informed yesterday that the performance was supposed to be 10 minutes. I've been guided. I'd like to add some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u33	Alexander Mikolaiovich, one minute. Finish it, please. And the other is in the answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u34	Okay. We asked for a draft agreement that would take account of the changes, the approved schedule, and the schedule. Answers on. So, until now, we haven't gotten a coherent plan for the national MPs' performance yet. Why? And where does false information come from about the National Television Company?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u35	Please calm down. The Supreme Council is the initiator of this report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u36	Sabotages the execution of the decree. ..sounded permanently by some people's defenders. You know, this problem exists, it exists quite seriously if you go to it professionally and seriously. If I had a little bit more time, I could show you how the First National Channel was broken. I don't understand your line. "You don't have to!"because it's about matters of national importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u37	Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u38	The national television channel was broken up in the morning, in the middle of the night, we've had two hours of working with our colleagues from the state radio companies. We can't really compete with commercial channels with this kind of network of language. Over the course of three years, we were underfunded for almost one year’s budget. In addition, a similar practice of hand-wringing is, in fact, an amazing situation where the Supreme Council, by its determination, raises the work of directors of national television programs, which should not be. So I want to go back to the sanity of the Supreme Council and ask her for protection. I emphasize that this is not about the parliamentary channel, but about the First National channel, which is very limited by the actions of the authorities. And another example. We literally received yesterday information that on June 10th of this year, from 10 o'clock in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the day of the government that we're going to broadcast, and after lunch on this very day, we're going to have parliamentary hearings that will also be broadcast by the National Television Company of Ukraine. If this is a parliamentary channel, create a parliamentary channel and work on it. And in the same way, well, actually this works out, all the reasonable limits pass. And I want to quote one document. "The irregularity of a number of issues noted, the owl is about legislation, financial security and intervention of NTSCs, has a negative impact on the quality of public telephony, does not contribute to the resolution of the tasks of the Ukrainian Society's Consolidation and to increasing its resistance to the negative impacts that have recently been exacerbated." This is the conclusion of the National Security and Defence Council, which examined the state of affairs in Ukraine’s television area. I would like to sincerely hope that, following today’s discussion by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it will first be the support of national journalists in our efforts to restore to the First National Channel the status of a strong, powerful and objective channel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. It was our initiative to listen to the report, and we don't want to listen. Well, you have to respect that. Please calm down. Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov. The next one is Dry. Please. Please, Dry. The next one is the miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u40	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, the faction of SDPU, I ask you first, don't take it to your head that there are hysterical screams in this room, someone is in pain, and he's screaming. Never mind, because I already understand that all these hearings and reports are really about not setting up the truth, not helping, but just testifying to some intransigence, position, or anything like that. I'll be honest with you, with the dynamics and full coverage of the work of the third session of the Supreme Council for the maximum representation of the various political forces on the television screen, your work, for example, I think, deserves my approval. But I'm worried about another question. Please tell me, any trends, how can you assess the future privatization of the National Television? And what help do you need as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u41	Thank you for asking, thank you for your support. I'm not on this platform for the first time, so I'm used to a lot of things, but thanks for your support. As for the rumors that someone is going to privatize state television, I know about them at the same level. One thing I want to say is while I'm in office as President of the National Television, as long as I have the strength to do, I'm going to try not to let that happen. I know that, let's say, there are about eight bills in Parliament's walls today that relate to the idea of creating public or what they call social television. I don't really have the ability to get to know all of them. But let's say what I know about some things, they just surprise me. I know that there are certain forces in our country that are very interested in, let's say, the only plot of the state that is today in the person of the National Television Company, the radio company, to destroy it. There are already people who are probably standing with shovels and ready to come to these ruins.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u42	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please give a more concise answer. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u43	Well, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u44	It's tighter. You don't have to do that. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u45	If, let's say, we want to do the public television of Beresowski's name, as it was done in Russia, that's one thing, and if we want to do really public television, then we need to change all the basics, we need to change, not just change the chips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u46	Eugene Gorenik. Next Nadya. Give a more concise answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u47	Dear reporter, I'm asking that statistic you've been giving us to file the decryption every day for the first quarter so as not to mislead our audiences and television audiences. And I'd like to give the word to the workman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u48	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, dear reporter, would you please tell me who has been ordered to conduct the first national campaign on the first national channel of the helming campaign, Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk? This was also in the Kiev Telegraph and the ISTV and seems to be in TET. But the worst part is that it's happening on First National. This is because the opposition protest is taking place on Shevchenk's birthday. I understand that the current regime, corrupt, cannot somehow contradict the word of Shevchenka, nothing but dirt. Please tell me, aren't you disgusted by this company?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u50	I ask the National Deputies to abide by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. There's nothing I can tell you about colleagues in print media. Regarding the First National Channel, I strongly deny what you're talking about. If you were able to watch our programs as we look at them or watch our viewers, you would have a completely different idea. If you were watching, let's say yesterday, 2.5 hours, I'd like to, I don't see them here today, let's say, thank both Paul Silent and Vladimir Yavorowski and Boris Olijnik. Yesterday was a wonderful 2.5 hour transmission about our Cobzar If you're interested in, let's say, previous statistics, we're ready to give it to you, you can create a commission and check all this out, you'll know exactly. Canoeevsky's News in the last issue, his latest release, what was it about? What did Chewchenk's great-grandchildren say? What kind of glamour do you see in this? I didn't see any hallucinations there, and no instructions from me, no colleagues about the genius of the Ukrainian people, no questions about our holiness from me and my deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u52	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u53	Dear Alexander Nikolayevich, today's conversation in the hall, he reminds me sometimes, so to speak, of the principle "and you." So as a person who's been involved and able to see what politics and television are, I would like to focus on one thing, I think there's a way to solve the question of more methodical order. So this is where our esteemed Ivan Sergeyevich expressed his wishes for something that needs to be regulated by law, because if there is no legislation, then every meeting in this room or in your office, when they come to you, will still be of a scandalous nature, because in any case I understand that freedom of speech should not lead to, in any case, to the fact that there are deputies in the studio, sit down and MPs can't be removed from it. Such an impression that there is nothing more than them on this earth and in this State. In fact, I was upset by another moment at the same time. You said you weren't all the bills you could read. Here's what I'm proposing to you and Ivan Sergeevich right now. Let's read these bills together. If we have to, let's get them into this room together. And let's adjust our relationship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u54	Please ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u56	Andrew School, next Hinsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear reporter! Of course, this statistic that you're scared of here is quite impressive. You're showing anything but the national MPs on UT-1. Because it's just that, I guess, maybe I do, and I'm just looking at the president, he opened up a factory, one company, he went there, he came back from somewhere, he took the ambassador from the Ivory Coast. I mean, that's the big news. Don't you think you're just giving us wrong information? The other one. I'd like to inform you that it wasn't our decision to have the UT-1 TRC work. That's your problem. That's where you started, that's where you eliminate it in the First National Ukrainian Language, Ukrainian Culture. What you're giving this to a lesser extent is the propaganda of a foreign state, a foreign ideology. Then explain to us who is to blame? I understand what you're going to say, you're the one who put "Era" in there. Whoever commercializes television right now, please explain the First National.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. Although I definitely disagree with you. First. I didn't scare anyone, and I gave you the data that my colleague at Plane Management put on the table yesterday, if you're doubting if you're saying in advance that this information is not true, I'd like to hear from you what the motivation of these statements is and why you're saying that it's not true, and the figures indicate that, let's say, you're saying that one president. The figures are quite different, and let's say if you combine both questions and Mr. Nadragha about whether or not there are MPs. I'll give you one example. Let's say we've got 10 loudspeakers. So this is what Mr. Winsky, Mr. Rudzikowski, Mr. Green, Mr. Assadchev, Mr. Matvienko, Masenko, Katerinczuk, and a representative of the Zdumkov Zhdanov Foundation, did. And if you mention that they're coming out, we've recorded two broadcasts straight away, ask your colleagues if one word in their speeches has been changed, if it's been removed. They recorded it in direct air mode, then just titrated it and put it on the air. Twice a week they were Tuesday and Thursday, and there were two more. So these representatives that I called, four times in seven or eight days, they were on the air of the National Television Company. That's what someone said from the opposition. We don't allow opposition. This was done to implement the Supreme Council's ruling, whether it was the National Television Company that took the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u59	Please, Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u60	Nothing before the report.? It's about the "Era" TRC. I've been working at the National Television for two months. The licenses are not issued by the National Television, not by the Committee of the State, the National Council issues them. And believe me, there's a TV term for "run the channel." Basically, all commercial revenues can be based only on the early and evening blocks. Where can I get him? I can't start my hymn program. And I can't finish with an anthem because we have to start at 6:00 in the morning, and I start at 9:00 and I finish at 23. I wanted to tell you about these problems today, but part of the hall said we didn't need it. I don't know what to do. If you don't have to do what you have to do. Let's make a deal. I'm not a man of conflict, I want to compromise. It's easy and easy to twist the hands of the National Television company by, say, determination. And these numbers like them, or they don't like them, they're real and they're real. I haven't told you anything about information shows yet. For example, in the 40 - day information from January 1 to today, we received 446 interviews and videos at the hands of national MPs. Among them, they're the same. Now I'm going to name the same. "Our Ukraine" is 85 people, "Regions" is 46, "SPPU" is 43, "PPU" is 38, "Poverty government is 35, "PPU is 30, "Democratic Initiatives" is 18, "NDP is 15, "PPU" is 10, "PPU" is 7, "European Choice" is 3, "National Choice" is 1, "PUT - 1, "POT" is 114 people, communists, I said, "Communists 38, in 120 days. [[Management of the Supreme Council]] It was in those information stories in 40 days. We can even show you all the videos, the microphone folders. If you're able to look at it, it's about, we have an information release of 11, 15, 19, 21.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u61	Alexander Mikolaiovich, we have to finish. Olga Gunzburg, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u62	Hinzburg, 161 Conotapian constituency, Communist faction. I wanted to ask Ivan Sergiyovich my question, but it happened that, Alexandre Mikolayovich, it would be addressed to you. The point is that you and I are discussing today the order of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call. I'm putting this on myself. For example, I am a fifth year’s national deputy and you’re saying that going on air or somewhere to be shown, I don’t count myself as the worst deputy, it’s just impossible. I'm telling you this honestly, and I'm telling this to my constituents. It's just impossible, and, if possible, they're offering me money like I have to pay somewhere in the area or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u63	Who specifically proposed to you, please give it to me. A note.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u64	I'll tell you later. But that's not the question. And why a Communist, here we are in opposition, you complain that no one is listening to you, but your majority, she's not in the room, whoever's supporting you, is sitting there fighting harder to get out. And there's nothing to be offended about. You have someone to fight against and someone to support you. But that's the question for me, too. We're fighting for our cause, you know? To be heard. I'm asking you, for example, does he have the right to -- if he has the right, why -- for example, when there's a broadcast of the Supreme Council's session, a district radio in half, to get into the air of the Supreme Council and tell me that I often have a radio in the Sumskie region? If there is such a right, then what is it? If not, who is to blame, and how can we cope? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. If you give me a letter and give me the name of the person on the national television show on my channel that I'm running today, she asked you for money, I promise you, I'll make an application to the attorney general's office right away. I'm asking you to give me such a fact that he won't be. I heard it out of the voice. Especially where, when, who. This person will be punished even if we put him in prison. Give me the facts. That's true. Today it's not my parish as to the former head of the committee. I can tell you, of course, it's wrong. That's not supposed to happen. I think Ivan Sergiyovich will respond adequately if you address him with this kind of concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u66	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! Mikola Tomenko, head of the Supreme Council Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Let's put some emphasis on that. I'm a little concerned that the Supreme Council was forced to do arithmetic. In fact, the question is far more serious. There is no opposition here to the majority, there is a decision of the Supreme Council, supported by 252 votes signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and directed towards implementation. And when there are people here who are ministers and deputy ministers who are funded by the State Budget who tell us why they don't comply with the Supreme Council's decision, I don't understand anything. I don't know which country we might be in to tell us that we have bad laws and we won't do them. We don't like the article of the Constitution, we won't do it. Dear friends, we're just making fun of each other here, aren't we? As long as there is a law, even though it is three times bad, it must be done. Those who fail to do so need to see in those places where you spoke before me. Thesis first. Another thesis. When we talk about arithmetic, we don't talk about key things. What did the Supreme Council offer by its decree? It practically didn't increase the time of enlightenment, and in order to remove all the questions, it suggested that we go all the way to direct air, because the world didn't come up with a bigger democracy as linear programs. On live television, we wrote out a clear whale representing every political power. And it's not opposition, because most of it is the majority, and in linear programs, most of it is going to be more. But we're ready to debate with the majority on live air, and time doesn't really change everything. And you're telling us, you're building graphs. If I'm going to build you a news graph of the UTN, which is the key on the program, you're going to see what representation there will be of the executive authority and what will be the representation of the opposition. Because when you talk about parliamentary hearings. What Is Government Day? Government Day is the government speaking, and we're asking questions. This is an disclosure of government activity, Parliament has nothing to do with this, because we have asked three questions or are not allowed to ask questions from the government at all. It's a government quota. Therefore, my position is clear as long as we live in a country where there is a Constitution, laws and decrees of the Supreme Council, all of us must do so. Whoever doesn't, write your statements. I'm getting fired because I don't want to do an unfair law. If it's fair, I'll return to this position. Another thesis. Here, when the opposition was being accused, yesterday, I want to remind you how the law was passed in the interests of your people who work and get low wages. I passed a bill with national MP Alexander Omelchenk. And the parliamentary majority made a mandatory decision not to vote in favour of this law. Only opposition voted yesterday. Only through the principled position of Alexander Zinchenko and Vladimir Litvin did we return to this law at 17.47 and, sorry, the parliamentary majority of the people need to raise their wages. And because of the opposition yesterday, the law passed. Next thesis. When we say the channel is sold out, I completely agree. But what does the Supreme Council have to do with this? When Erie was sold, when you kept quiet that the district broadcasters had taken two hours, I objected to taking two hours away from you, and you all kept your mouth shut. And the Supreme Council has supported you. When do you give all your prime time to commercial television companies? You're saying you can't put the Supreme Council from 19 to 20. Who's standing there? "Gravis" stands -- "The One," which has nothing to do with your channel, stands the "tax fine" of the Tax Administration during this period. So, the Supreme Council can't get out during this period? Next thesis. So today we've come to the point that News-UTN -- we have the least rating program in Ukraine. Eight percent of Ukraine’s citizens, according to a survey, trust the news of the National Public Canal. The commercial channels of an oligarch to order are more objective than the news of the National Channel! What are we talking about? We play graphs in statistics. The position must be clear. Today, as long as laws and regulations exist, they must be enforced. I fully support what you need to have a channel of public speaking. And we'll do it. But yesterday, thanks to the majority, the first step to the social channel has failed, to agree on the procedure for the appointment of managers and public councils to run the channel. Yesterday, most of them did not vote for the law. Here's the social talk you're saying. We're ready to work it. The last thesis is very important and I wanted to say that it is related to the fact that the great concern that we have and what Yuri Orobec said is that in the "Vests" of Kaniewski, which comes out today at the First National, there was a material about Shevchenk. And when we have a television company on the First National Channel that doesn't hide that it's Igor Surkis's television company and Dynamo's football club, on a nationwide channel where we pay money from the budget, the main news is Igor Surkis's commercial channel. Well, I'm sorry. I need a conscience of some kind. When people who work at UTN sit there and can't make stories, you invite the mates who do. Let the TETs do it. So I think here we just have to be honest with each other and make the right decision, make the right decision. I don't see any reason here for us to translate those unfortunate programs from live to live, and there will be an opportunity for people to see what kind of position a particular faction took on a particular day. And that's all, and you don't have to count when you count who you invited. We don't know what you're inviting? We don't know how you're giving synchronics? If you invite Frost, a communist or someone from our Ukraine, you'll pull a sentence out of the synchronous, which is not clear what he said or think he said the opposite. So the direct air that we offer you does not interfere with you and helps people to hear the truth about the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u68	Please sign up for the question. Andrew School, next Stoyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear reporter, I'm curious, I've asked you a question, of course, and I've asked you a question. This was partly the answer given to who is responsible for the commercialization of the channel. Well, give an answer to all the audiences -- and the radio audiences, and the future TV audiences, because of course. It won't show up on the air, but maybe they'll show it on some oligarch channel. Who's to blame? And then: what do you have to do to make state television public or at least public television, so that everyone can view it as state television, not the President's television, his administration, "TETU", "Ery" or anything else? If we were to have a chance, well, if we weren't proud of the First National Channel, wouldn't we at least be ashamed of it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u70	Well, I've forgotten, I've been told that there's really something to be proud of, because I think today the National Radio Company has not only implemented the Supreme Council's ruling, but there is, as it were, an element of the public speaking channel, where there is culture, education, information and so on. As far as the financial stuff is concerned, I think we'll find it. Can we, like a protocol commission today, be prepared to make a request? I think we need this discussion about money, or whether it's small or large, and let's give the House of Auditors an instruction on how to use the National Television, how much our budget is being used to use our people, who are being sold air, and how much advertising is being used. Well, let's have a real picture. We'll listen to the account room, see what the financial situation is, and then after commercialization, what the school said, we'll close the question. Regarding social speech, I said that yesterday we had to take the first step in creating social speech. Sadly, most of them did not support him. We are now preparing a complete project on social speech. To be honest, I don't believe this bill will be supported, but we're preparing it, and we're going to offer it to the Supreme Council in the near future. I showed you yesterday an example of the opposition defending the government channel, and most of it was against it. So the opposition is about to prepare a social talk project, and it's somewhere in the final stage.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u71	Please, Ivan Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u72	Thank you. Mr. Mikolo, you have the president of the National Television Company. Well, in my opinion, and I think most MPs think he was not acting quite right, he took on the inequity, I think, the enforcer of the decision, which is the criticism of it. Rather, he must and should do it, this determination. So I have a question, please tell me, Mr. Mikolo, what are we going to do, what is your proposal to still force Savenka and his team to make a direct broadcast order that should go out five times a week from 19 to 20 hours? There is a law, indeed, that must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u73	I don't think it's about, I think it's about, probably, charging, but it's about, if we have to make an argument, if we have to, once again, I'm going to point out again, that we need to get started, unlock this situation, and implement the decision as soon as possible. And what's more, we've been meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council and the head of the National Television, where we said that we're willing to even take some concessions in part, for example, reducing programs, because Saturday and Monday we don't work, we can take this program out, we can go out on four. So the Supreme Council is ready to compromise, and there would be compromise by the National Television Company. But what's surprising to me is that I took the News in Ukraine yesterday. Now, this is kind of a strange situation where we're dealing with the interpretation of laws. We have the Media Workers' Association, which is headed by Ivan Petrenko, he's the deputy of Ivan Sergiyovich Cizha, the truth is not signed here as a substitute, when the day before the President signed our draft law on censorship, the Association acted and disgraced this bill as the worst of times and nations. And asked the President to veto it. Ivan Sergiyovich, a deputy, supported us, and his deputy asked the President to veto. And now before our hearing today, once again this association, but no one knows it's the Deputy Head of the State Committee, writes that the Supreme Council is destroying the National Television Company and asking the President to protect the National Television Company from us. So, Ivan Sergiyovich, I'd like you and Petrenko to negotiate, because he's an interesting man, he's got legends walking about, how he made a decision in the National Council as a head, so that there's no legend going on about his work right now, if he's signing those petitions, let him sign: the deputy head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting, Victor Mikhailovich Petrenko, not the Association of Journalists. I don't know any famous journalist in this Association, because every day I tell you that the Supreme Council is destroying television and journalists, I don't think that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u74	Droguncs Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u75	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich! I've been working in the Supreme Council since 1990. First call. There was democracy, there was freedom of speech, and I spoke several times a week. It's true, and now it's nothing. The truth was that there was no Savenka. There were other people who were more decent, honest, conscientious. And they followed the decision of the Supreme Council. Now, tell me. He said, here from the rostrum, that yesterday's planning-economic department, or the economic department gave him data on how many people speak here. Did he just find out about it yesterday? And do you have a fractional analysis of that, according to the MPs? One can speak a hundred times, and the other can't speak once. For example, in five years, I had never performed on television. National deputy of Ukraine. That's the situation. I'll tell you one more time. As for the Supreme Council programs that are being prepared by the Broadcasting Corporation. So we have a very developed principle of quota, where faction leaders agree with the radio organization, but these are just our programs. As far as the news is concerned. We can't intervene, the news makes a creative team. But I say again that the report on the news, well, as an expert, as a scientist I can't accept this report arithmetically, because once again I have to look at the context, I've once shown you the same pictures when I have to, I'm ready to monitor such a thing as showing how the synchronism with Communists, socialists and "Our Ukraine" where, I'm sorry, they're shown by idiots because they take a sentence like that and laugh and cry. This position is not yours, but it is due to such synchronisms. And the President showed you the number of arithmetical memories. So if you want to have this discussion, I'm ready to show you pictures too.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Please, Alexander Viktorovich Road.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I am still a brief replica of the performance by the distinguished Sergey Ivanovich Droguntsov. I don't think all of NTTU's problems are personal. I want to emphasize that it is Savenko who is a decent, honest man. And including me, Mikola Volodymyrovich, there was this thesis that most of you were blocking. I don't think that's right. And this path that you've chosen, you say, maybe the opposition, maybe let's just sit down and look at the real problems of the First National. I'm sorry, it's such an impression that I didn't hear anything or hear that the main problem of the First National is that it's a little bit of opposition factions. Perhaps there are other problems. So let's sit down with all the factions and help the First National and NTC solve these problems. And I'm ready as a representative of the President to help you do that, so let's do that. If you say that to solve the problem of the First National there is a problem of how to assign, and there is a direct contradiction of the Constitution, how most of it can support it. Well, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u78	Mr. Alexander, the problem is that you are already sitting on this oversight board of First Nationals. There is the oversight board of the First National Council, where the majority sit. From Parliament, one person, I won't call her name, I respect her, but she didn't want to go there, she was introduced there, so the canal's supervisory board must have to sit there, really, representatives of different factions. Thesis first. The other one. I'm responsible for what I said. And yesterday, when there was a vote on article 12 on state broadcasters, it was mandatory for the majority not to vote. And I'm sorry, I'm as responsible here as you are. And just once again, thanks to the leadership of the Supreme Council, we voted. I called people's names the ones who helped do it. I don't know why most people yesterday didn't want more pay to be paid by radio organizations. And, I think today, I'm ready to talk, I know that there are both economic problems, and we have a budget, we have a budget, we have a budget, I fully agree. But today I'm reporting one question: failure to comply. And I made the argument that there is no serious reason why the Supreme Council's ruling, not the opposition decree, is not being implemented by the Supreme Council, the Head. And the conclusion of this discussion is that, on the basis of this, we have to make a decision to give a term, perhaps indeed, there only Mr. Savenko saw statistics today, yesterday did not know this situation, to give him some time to work with us. We met, by the way, in the Head of the Supreme Council, in the office we sat and debated this problem, but nothing moved. So once again, the decision has to be made, and the fate of the National Television, the fate that hurts us all, and it needs to be made through a national, social, not a majority channel or a channel of opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Boris Bespalley, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u80	Gennady Andryovich, thank you for your word. Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." I wanted to talk to you, Gennady Andriyovich, with two of these, let's say, thesis in order. First. I wanted to point out that neither I nor the Yukhnovsky Academy had been given a word of order when we asked for it, although it was provided for directly by the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u81	The order of conduct shall be defined by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u82	On the other hand, Savenko spoke more than the rules. And I wanted to draw your attention, don't allow any more in the walls of the Supreme Council, that the public officials in their speeches would allow themselves to be misspoken in relation to Parliament as a whole and to the individual representatives of the Supreme Council, because these are elected representatives of the people, and you're going to stand up for them, and I'm very much asking that this doesn't happen again. Thank you for the opportunity to express yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u83	Your Honor, you don't have to see each other as enemies. Normal people. Let us treat one another with respect. You can't do that. We decided to listen to the report and give our word. Let's respect each other. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Vassil Ivanovich. The next school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! Today we are discussing, I would like to recall, the issue of the third session of the Supreme Council, so to speak, in the media, in the electronic media. I may not even want to address those people who have reported or reported today, and not even their respectable colleagues. I want to talk to the radio. You have a clear example today that politics is a confrontation of interests, a confrontation of positions, assessments and everything else. Therefore, what the opposition is present today, and most and everyone is expressing their views, is normal. Just the only thing, I don't think it's entirely normal when there's a slant going in one direction or the other. I don't think the People's Choice I'm proposing here can be blamed for us sitting on TV, letting nobody go. In the same figures that we heard today, we were told that only once were remembered in newsgroups. Here's another number. Today's the last one. To the last co-rapporteur of the five asking questions, only one of them was so unlovable to all the "majority". Therefore, I think that the essence of the problem is that today, when a minority has the leadership of a committee corresponding to freedom of speech and information, that is normal. The opposition must control the power and be able to do so through the media. There's something else bothering me. People who have sat for five years and have never registered for a speech begin to claim a radio company that it does not show them. Let's be honest. Whoever wants to do this has to do it. Speaking of things that have also raised a question for me. I'd like to sound it, maybe not even ask for an answer. So much has been said about the law that 50 per cent of the remaining ads go further, again, for local television companies. It's okay. But why was it said so poorly about the majority without which the law would not have passed. Let us not clothe ourselves with the tantrums of heroes who flaunt and save the people. Your position, it's good. But in this case, our positions coincided with the law. And thank God. And to tell you that someone's bad and someone's wonderfully beautiful, that's probably not entirely fair. Turning to the theme of the third session of the Supreme Council, we are discussing. Deeply convinced, the first must be comprehensive transmissions of all factions and groups, and they must not be described as stationary things. And I am deeply convinced that, and in this case I am addressing the first two rapporteurs, there is a need for reviews of the activities of the Supreme Council, including regional television companies, to be distributed there because the population is watching them. In everything else, we are deeply convinced that only if we want to understand each other can we change something. If we continue to charm and just look for someone clearer and harsher to speak nonsense to each other, not in this room, there will be no order in this State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u85	Andrew Schlell. Next Oilman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u86	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. I would like to remind everyone here, especially those who are inconsiderately reading the list of issues that we are considering today. Today's report by the Head of the State Committee on Information Policy, the television on the progress of the Supreme Council Order on the order in which the work of the third session of the Supreme Council will be discussed. This is the subject of our discussion. By asking questions, we could move away from the subject. And I wouldn't want to get away from the subject here. I would, of course, like to stress, first of all, that it's very hard to mathematically calculate who's represented on the television screen, believe me. When it's done mathematically. Another question: How and when? I'd like to guess that you've come to the walls of the Supreme Council, the supreme legislative body. You may not love him, of course, it's your right, but you have no right to express disrespect here. You have no right to speak. Yes, in your answers I felt disrespect for the people. And this disrespect is completely reflected in the television channel that you've been leading for a couple of months. It was up to you, it stayed with you and, I think, as long as there is an existing regime in power, the state of things will not change, because the First National Channel is not a national channel, it is a mirror of today's power. And that's how she wants to show herself, that's how she shows herself. As you would like to highlight the work of the Supreme Council, you are illuminating it in a negative, distorted light. And it's quite natural, on the one hand, but it's unnatural that you're refusing to comply with the law that the higher legislature has offered you. It's unnatural. And mathematical calculations aren't there. This is when we talk about quantum mechanics, then you can prove your truth or our wrong numbers. And here's the story that everyone has the opportunity to break in on television, and then this MP from most of them has gone, and he asked a question and he's gone, and there's one opposition left in the room, and you can look at it. And the radios that don't see it, I'll let them know. Thus, breaking into television is virtually impossible. And you understand very well that this is one of the deputies from BUIT who was shown, it was probably about criminal cases that were started against some of the other deputies. The constant one - sidedness, that is, one side is displayed, is not shown the other in the information blocks. And that's why they have such a critical low level of trust. You might say that you don't want to see Beresowski's television, or public television, but once again, oligarchik television is fully supported by the committee manager, it's more objective, it's more objective than the First National Channel. And I don't know who to ask. If you don't have it. So who's got it? Who Are Responsible? I'm used to thinking that the manager is responsible for what he's doing, not any other force. And the last stroke. I fully support that the law is that 20 percent of the advertising that you have going there is to allow you to have free advertising policies on the channel. It was ours, it was the opposition of the initiative, because we realized that this would at least solve your hands a little. And you should know that. It is not simply criticizing and expressing disrespect in the walls of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u87	The word is given to Oliynik Petr Mihailovich. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! Olinik Petr Mihajlovich, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine, Sokalsky 125 constituency. There is no effective legal basis, and even more so are fundamental moral standards and the observance of the rule of law. Television is a function of political cleavage. Pichovsek, Zhangirov, Korczynski are practically killing democracy in a treaty with some political and economic group. But let's talk about the government channels. The events of May 9 in Lviv showed that so - called Ukrainian television is a source and a source of opposition in society. On May 8, the channel’s regional representations received an editorial task, which and how to record on May 9. We offered to make a story from a military hospital where UPA and the Red Army are being treated together. But Kiev needed a Martian field. Let him remain on the conscience of the individual leaders of the left forces, who led, not to Holm Slava, where war heroes rest, but to the Martian field, where the people of the murderers of the NKVD were shot innocently. But why was the more objective story that was made in Lviv for the "UT-1" channel, to the honor of the Lviv Corps, copied and rereaded in Kiev and practically misinformed Ukrainian citizens. Specially cynical was the information that the participants in these events were representatives of the Viktor Yuschenk bloc "Our Ukraine". No political party of the Yushchenka bloc took part in this. Because at that time, Viktor Yushchenko was in Auschwitz, where his father was a concentration camp prisoner. Now the behavior of the "little brother" -- the Levite State Channel of 12, where the editor of the "News Service" RD TRC Angelina Lavrinovich had to make a statement that her story about the forum in Kiev "Our Ukraine" was deliberately copied by one of the leaders of the Lion State Broadcasting Company and cynically changed its contents. The courts won in the 12th channel, the 1+1 channel on the events of the pre-election races last year show that the channel is dishonest, inefficient and disinforming the nation. Kendzior's political essays were taken off on Channel 12. Cynicism, lying, serving individual political and economic groups has become a norm, and far from the democratic standards of Europe, it is also from Ukraine in the first half of the 1990s and even the last years of the Soviet Union in the Gorbachev era. The top of the cynicism was "News From Canoeewsky" on UT-1 channel about Taras Grigorovovich Shevchenk. The desire to destroy the opposition led to the destruction of Taras Grigorovich. There is a need for every state channel to work out a standard where every political power can have access to the media on paritorial terms, and on UT-1 to create public television in a way that guarantees civil society. Savenko is certainly not to blame, a system of guilt that today, at State expense, washes the brains of the Ukrainian nation in order to destroy democracy in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u89	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, next Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u90	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable Multitude Ukrainian People, Honorable Representatives of the Government! I remember a few years ago, Ivan Sergiyovich, you were on this rostrum when you were part of a socialist faction, you were a little bit different and you were a little bit different. I'd like you to pick up these transcripts somehow, and they'd be interesting to you, and I'm not saying that for our radio audiences. And as our heads of the State Committee and the President of the National Company report today. Is the law being enforced or not being enforced? I agree with Mikola Tomenko, the head of the profile committee, that the requirements of the law are not being met. What's more, I want to tell you that I'm being cut out in our own "Council" program, doing a review. When I tell society about scary things. They're cut out because they won't miss it on the National Channel. Is that normal in which country it is? And you're proud of that? You don't have to be proud of that. Can you tell how article 171 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is applied today? I am proud to refer to the authors of this article and to article 351 on the obstacle to the activities of the national deputy and the deputy of the local council. It provides that the deliberate obstruction of legal professional activity by a journalist is punishable by a fine, and that persecution for professional duties is punishable by criticism by an official or a fine, or a restriction on the freedom to serve for a term of up to five years. I am addressing Attorney General Piscoon: what is happening today, as independent companies are being persecuted, let's say, in the Kharkiv region, the Chernobyl region? For example, let me give you a letter from Kharkiv County regarding persecution. The person who registered the company barely got a license because it's very difficult, unfortunately, to die from a bloodbath to the brain. This is such, dear Master Matthew, the kingdom of the heavens. And after that, the local authorities, despite the fact that people are Omega companies -- and people are going to the Head of the Reichs, their deputies are asking them not to interfere, they're going to pressure them into saying that you're going to work only when the regime legally becomes the founder of the TC-Omega, and the sole authority is going to decide that when and how is our television company going to show? These letters are written to you by honor, here they are with seals. These letters are written to Mr. Cold, and these letters are written to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Medvedchuk, and these letters are already written to me. Is it not a shame that I am addressing Mr. Piscoon, that you should immediately take a criminal case under article 171? As far as this is concerned, he's going to set up a company and work there, as Mr. Savenko has advised us, or create a parliamentary channel. And you're still going to be handing out UT-1s as you hand out a piece of turrets? No, we won't give you that. You will report to the court of history, the prosecutor’s office, the court of justice, and God’s judgment. Do not embalm our air that belongs to all the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u91	Gmira Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u92	Thank you. Almost a year ago, my colleagues were excited about the resumption of the broadcast of the meetings of the Supreme Council. Perhaps it was not worth the fun of it, at least because no one had ever responded to the fact that the laws in Ukraine had not been enforced for a long time. I remember how they closed the broadcast with a simple decision of the Central Electoral Commission. I remember being cynically closed on the day of parliamentary hearings on freedom of speech. And if no one is responsible for this, then the person who is the guarantor of our Constitution must be responsible. As soon as it came to the point, in the last Supreme Council decision to resume the practice of direct controversy, the authorities immediately said no. Here, Mr. Savenko could not solve the mystery of what must be done in order to show such controversy in direct air on UT-1. And I can't figure out why a week ago on Saturday at nine o'clock the broadcast was interrupted across all the channels because Leonid Danilovich Kuchma was on air with his statement on Europe Day. Well, maybe this statement was very profound, I only understood two things. First. That we should go to Europe. True, it is not clear how we should go to Europe, but we need to get out of it first. And second of all. That Olga and Hersones existed in Homer's day. But to say that, it's the same thing, I think, to say that we live while the Turks take Constantinople. For such a serious reason, all broadcasts on all television channels were interrupted. Could you do that for the President? Sure. Why isn't that a mystery to you? I was listening on a number of channels when they broke up. And, comrades and gentlemen, a very interesting question was asked here. What must be done to make Mr. Savenko comply with the legitimate decisions of the legitimate authority? No, I think we need to get Leonid Danilovich Kuchma to resign. If we choose a normal president to protect the interests of the people, not the oligarchic clans, with freedom of speech, I think we'll be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u93	Olga Hinzburg, are you insisting? Probably not, huh? Well, let's see. Hinsburg, Cherniak, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u94	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Hinzburg, 161th constituency of Konotapsk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Today we're discussing such a complex question that's probably affecting each of us, because people, when they listen to television, somehow appreciate life in the country: how our country lives, what it looks like in the international background, how politics is made, who is making it, what persons are making it, and who are elected deputies. They're doing the analysis. This MP today, we've chosen him, what he represents there, or what authority, which president. And by the way that television is bringing this information to people today, that's the impression. And it is not right that today’s television channel leads to unfair information. Every time I come out of the rostrum, I want to compare something all the time. You can't just eat potatoes, you can't just eat potatoes, you don't know what a crayfish is. What's she like? All I ate was a card. For example, I lived in Soviet times and live now. I know it was in Soviet times, but in these television shows there was a broadcast, the Communist Party of Ukraine was running, probably sending this work into propaganda. But she did it to make people live better. She worked for the people. We saw on the canal a living milkmaid, we saw on the canal how a worker is doing the machine today, we saw the teacher teaching his children, we saw the children in the pioneer camp resting and so on, and so on. And others were thoughts. What about today? I'm, for example, a deputy, 161 constituency, from the Communist Party. I can't tell you everything about how I went through this election, because you just won't believe it. How could you come to this car, meatball, when you weren't on TV or on the radio, you weren't released anywhere. Well, first of all, there's no money to pay for, and second of all, there's no money to pay for. That's what I'm saying, because that's what everyone's listening to. And when you come to something, to the responsible work that your electorate has entrusted you, you have the right to explain their problem, not yours. Sometimes you might not want to, but when you come and I get so many problems on my shoulders and these problems for you, where can you explain them? [[Here we go with you back to the county.]] Only by going to the Supreme Council’s rostrum, for sometimes there is nowhere to be pushed. And I want to talk to you today about how the third session of the Supreme Council is going to be discussed, why we should be thinking the same thing with you in five years, because you've left me a dock here in five years. Let's see what's left of him in five years. It thinks he's in the blue today and all the power. I'd like to wait until you're in opposition as you break into the TV screen. I don't want that to be easy for you. I want to say that there are a lot of violations and I'm particularly concerned today about these violations that concern us in the Sumskie area when the Supreme Council broadcasts; there's some very important question that can be raised on this issue either by the same Prime Minister, or by the same committee head, or by someone else, and there's a lot of area television going on in half and he's talking about his. Does he have the right to do so? And who should be responsible for this? I don't have an answer for the letters I sent today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u95	Finish it, please. Cherniak Vladimir Kirilovich. Very tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the point is not how the work of the Supreme Council is explained, not only in this but not so much in this. And I wouldn't want to look so narrowly at this problem. Although today’s subject is ours and I understand those who have talked about it with pain. I'd like to talk about this and a broader context. Parliament is the temple of democracy. You're going to say, "They're going to dive in here?" passions, conflicts of interest here, sometimes the best human qualities are shown here. It's all true, but at the same time, Parliament is the temple of democracy. And if we drive democracy out of Parliament, and if we don't enlighten it, then it disappears into society. Parliament is everywhere, all over the world, it doesn't like the executive power, it doesn't like the presidents. But there are laws that make it mandatory to consider what is Parliament and that society should know what is going on in Parliament. And when we ask questions about how Parliament works, it's not about how smart we are here. We are often foolish and often misbehave. But the people are obliged to know the truth about their own parliament. That's the point of the problem! It's not that we do it better than it is, and it's not that, of course, that we do it the way we do it all the time -- that we do it to Parliament. I'm critical of Parliament myself. To a particular Parliament, to a specific MP, to himself. But the stimuli of parliament always means the destruction of democracy. That's the problem. Now, directly to the essence of this question. Ivan Sergiyovich, you said that the problem is that there are legal coalitions. The point is, once again, not only is it not so much in legal colleges. Yes, they exist, and they need to be resolved. The point is different. The point, first of all, is that there was a monopolization of the etheric space by the oligarchs and the authorities and even the government channel. Well, oligopolies, if you want. State television -- how state-owned is it? How far does it stand on the watch of national interests? How national is it? How many national interests, national values, national culture are there? Secondly, so far no parliamentary channel has been created. I think you all agree that this is insane. In all civilized countries, there is a parliamentary channel. Let's create a parliamentary channel and take down the acuteity of this problem of how to explain work. Third moment. Let's make social speech. Why Not Created? And the fourth. Let's take down the political pressure on television.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u97	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u98	political pressure needs to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u99	The discussion is over. The closing word of Chiž Ivan Sergiyovich. Out of place, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u100	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to all those who have spoken, who are in pain for the problems of the information sphere with regard to disclosure in particular. There are a few moments that I'm going to try to squeeze in a minute. Today, the national television company is actually doing a technical function -- it broadcasts and broadcasts on the air what is produced by the Parliamentary Speech Directorate. That's the first one. The other one. The implementation of the Enlightenment Order is based on the Supreme Council's apparatus for the development of mechanisms, all the details. That's a second. Third. I'm confirming that the colossals are scary in law enforcement. It's forbidden for any authority, anyone, including obviously the Supreme Council, and the executive to intervene in software policy. And the decision regulates specific points. And that's why the Colosseum is in motion at the very stage of the preparation of these regulations. That's why I'm going to the Supreme Council -- we need to settle these problems. Finally, another nuance. That's Yuri Carmazin's answer, everyone else. I have nothing to be ashamed of. Whoever has a drop of objectivity knows that when Chi was standing on the Supreme Council’s rostrum as chairman of the parliamentary committee, there was no broadcast. Once we've shown twenty parliamentary hearings or thirty days of government, when it goes live today, radio broadcasting, that's what we have to take into account? Are we anchored in our position? There's a golden rule of parliamentaryism, and I'll just remember my parliamentary past, because the Supreme Council has assigned me as a whole, I don't belong to any part of Parliament, and so is the action: when in most cases you vote, when in a minority, vote. I understand the emphasis, it's been that way for ages, but there are principles of building a rule of law: we produce mechanisms that are legally foreseen, and they work these mechanisms for all society, including, of course, parliament as a more important part of it. We take into account what has been discussed here, the decision will be taken, the State Committee mechanisms, the National Television Company, the Radio Company, the state-owned companies will work within the framework of actual legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u101	Thank you. The question is closed, the ruling on this issue will be adopted on the day of the vote. Onopenko Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u102	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues, a statement was made this morning about my entry into the faction of "Ukraine". I didn't think there'd be this resonance call for reporters, I got a call. I'd like to say that there's been a technical misunderstanding, and I think it's going to be resolved in the near future. So I'm not asking the regulatory committee to investigate anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u103	Okay. Dear colleagues, we have a break now, but it's suggested that we don't take a break. Please, Weaknessa, there's a motive. Slabenko's microphone, please, Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u104	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to support my colleague, too, to say that the test that we just did is, in fact, a test of technical errors. And we think this is going to be settled in the working order. I wish we didn't focus on that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u105	Okay. Dear colleagues, in the morning we invited the Prime Minister's Supreme Council for Emergency Situations and People's Protection against the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Rev. Gregory Vasilovich, to provide us with information that is currently taking place in Chernobyl. Please, Grigory Vasilovich, 5 minutes information, 5 minutes questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u106	The Honorable Presidium! Dear National Deputies! In recent times, some media and the population have heard rumors of another emergency on the “Hiddenness ” site, which reportedly has resulted in the release of radioactive substances into the environment and the increase in the radiation background, both in the alienation zone and in adjacent areas. I'm officially telling you that our radiation control systems, which keep monitoring the radiation conditions in the extremity zone around CAES and in the breeding area, do not determine the excess of radiation pollution control levels. The radiation situation remains stable. The Chernobyl station also reports that Chaes’ emergency situation is not fixed. In fact, information about the radiation situation in the alienation zone is constantly published on the official site of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and the State Department of the Zone Administration. A few minutes ago, I was talking to the station manager, and I was talking to my subordinates, who are observing the radiation situation 24 hours a day. So the situation is stable and normal. For example, the CHEESE reservoir, if today 255 microresgents per hour, is controlled, as they say, by a dose of 520. Chernobyl is 42 micrograms per hour, it's a control 80, twice as low. Addition 83 micro-rhexane per hour, and control 120. So concern about this issue, I think is groundless, and I'm telling you that this is official information, so that's what it is that I've reported to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u107	Okay. Will there be questions? Would you please sign in if there is? Lighten up. Bubbles, Gurov's next. Stepan Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u108	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Well, it's a good thing that there is such information, there are messages from those who control or monitor, as you said, the situation around Chernobyl AES. But where do you think these rumors are coming from and where they come from, and why they're spreading, including, by the way, in the media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u109	Well, confirmation that if there was an accident, the units that directly carry the service would leave, they would carry the officer's services around. As for rumors, I think there's, for example, a planned anti-terrorist response to the station. Maybe someone didn't hear it that way. Well, I didn't do that kind of investigation, but I think it's really going to build not only the city of Kiev, but the whole state. So I think that the competent authorities should work on this and draw conclusions as to who and what rumors are spreading in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u110	Vadim Mikolaiovich Gurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u111	Dear Grigory Vasilyevich, what is your opinion of the state of the subject now "Hiddenness," except that you said that rumors are coming, rumors are different, that there's an ejection? And yet you're like an expert as you think you're in good shape and you're gonna be okay? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u112	My opinion is as follows. I attended several meetings and a meeting where, with the participation of the Prime Minister of our State, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, the question of completion was discussed, as they say, of the construction of the Hide. And to this day you know the financial situation, the Prime Minister has informed you. I believe that today the question of the Hidden object has been activated in the planning of its completion. And as for previous years as active work as it is today, I think that the plan that was planned in the preceding years would have been done in the near future. So I think that's why today's work is going well.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u113	Yukhnov Igor Rafailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u114	Yukhnovsky, Ukrainian People’s Party Dear Gregory Vasilovich! Did you know that inside the fourth energy cloud there are extremely dangerous processes related to what is happening to the full fragmentation of the radioactive dust to the size of the nanodimension? If such dust rises outside, it will hang in the air for years and is extremely dangerous. Do you know about the very dangerous processes that occur in the waters of the fourth energy cloud as a result of the rise of radioactive substances, and that all of this is necessary now. take and split? What do you think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u115	First of all, thank you for asking. I'd like to tell you that the situation at the station is being controlled today in all directions. And from the government, funds were allocated to minimize the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, and I mean to build dams on the Pripet River. There was so much concern about these questions. But today the situation is under control. In addition, by the end of the year, the tender will already be specific with regard to the Hidden Object. So, I think today is a very busy day. And those concerns of yours, they have a reason, but not as they say, a degree that is now said to be panicking or some kind of an unusual thing to do that is out of the question. Planned work is coming, and it will be done. I think that funding will be normal in the planned new terms for this object.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u116	Dmitry Saints, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u117	Dear Gregory Vasilovich! In your opinion, what has been the result of the increase in the number of fires and the death of people in recent times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u118	I'd like to report to you for information. During the years of independence of Ukraine, we had 550,000 fires in our country, killing 28,000 of our citizens. In comparison with the war in Afghanistan, 13,000 soldiers and officers of the Soviet army were killed in 10 years of war, I remember. What causes the number of fires? First of all, some increase in fires occurred because today is the actual count of these fires. Second, it's related to the wear of a technogenic park, so to speak, it's also electrical equipment, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about what we're discussing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u120	Also, there's a lot of power cuts, heat failure, a lot of reasons and social reasons, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u121	Okay, okay. Please, Georgi Grigorovich Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u122	Masenko asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u123	Please, Masenka's microphone. Hurry up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u124	Gregory Vasilovich, I have two questions. Has the situation improved since the closure of the Chernobyl AES, or would it have been the same if it had worked? How are you, from an economic point of view, and from an environmental, radiation standpoint? And the second question. After all, please tell me why there is no payment of the cost of effective legislation to participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl AES accident. Poltava region, Lubensky, Orgitsky, Seminovian and Horon regions
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u125	Your Honor, we're not looking at this right now. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u126	What's the matter? This has to do with the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u127	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u128	Who's going to go if there's a new accident, who's going to get rid of it if they don't pay for it? Gennady Andryovich, why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u129	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u130	I'm reporting that the radiation situation with the closure of the Chernobyl station has not worsened. All 30 points defined today are monitored 24 hours a day. As for the economic situation, I did not study the question. I think it's for economists to report. As far as paying off payments to Chernobyl liquidators is concerned, I want to report that 111 million and 64 million have already gone in May -- that the Supreme Council's decision, the law, the budget, is 200 million. What is budgeted for 2003 per hundred percent for Chernobyl programmes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u131	Please, Potapov Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u132	Grigori Vasilevich, we have every reason to believe that the Ministry of Emergency Situations will add it to speed today. It is estimated that the fifth day, in Ukraine, there are rumours of possible conflicts. And I remember April 26 of that terrible year. The situation was one to another. Everybody knows something happened, and the official Kiev is silent, the official Moscow is silent. Which prevented the Ministry of Emergency from making an official statement for the second hour following the occurrence of any circumstances or rumours. Not necessarily here in the Supreme Council. To make the Ukrainian people feel and know that the situation is under control.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u133	If you've been listening carefully, I've reported that every day on the site we've been publishing information all over the country about the situation at the Chernobyl atomic station in the indicator zone that I might be calling you right now. There's no question. No one was in the way. But these rumors, you know, they're every day and that's why we might count in our work. Every day to make such statements, I think it may be inappropriate. And that's how it's taken note.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u134	Thank you. Please sit down. With the motives of Yukhnovsky Igor Rafailovich, from place, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u135	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Deputies! The thing is, there are institutes that are very thorough about the processes that are going on in the 4th power grid and these processes are dangerous. They're two types. The first type of process that happens to fuel saws that are in the middle of the 4th energy cloud. As a result of the so-called alpha radiation, there is a decay of pollen into very tiny particles, which, being raised into the air, can hang out for a very long time and destroy the environment. On the other hand, there is a second very dangerous reason. This is the water that's in the cylinder of the 4th energy cloud. There's going to be a rise of wood mass in the water, and these are the cottons that people are talking about right now, these are the tiny micronuclear explosions that are happening in this water. They're not very dangerous, but they're still happening. So I have a personal idea that as long as it's built from the second coating of the 4 energy cloud, it's going to take a couple of years, let's say 5 or how many years until the second cover is made, you have to do everything you can to get out of here somehow. Here's the dust and the solvents of the radioactive substances that are there to build an appropriate chemical plant that divides the chemical isotopes among itself. These are radioactive isotopes. And it has to be done very quickly. There's nothing strange about this hearing right now. The fact that foreign nations now say they're going to give money is not surprising. They all realized that the threat that exists in the 4th energy cloud right now is much more dangerous than the one that was immediately after the explosion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u136	You can hear the offer very much. The government will take all of this into account. Dear colleagues! We have a daily bill to amend the Ukrainian budget code. However, according to the head of the budget committee, Prashenko, the government has failed to submit its project and proposes that this issue be removed from the discussion today. Let's move on to the next question. Draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Family Code. Reported by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Anitaliy Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u137	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Family Code, has been developed by the Ministry of Justice to carry out the Prime Minister's mandate since February 14, 2002. The Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Family Code on January 10, 2002. It will take effect on January 1, 2004. According to the Final Regulations of the above - mentioned Code, the Cabinet of Ministers was tasked with amending the laws of Ukraine resulting from the Code. The bill that's under consideration today. aimed at improving legislation in order to enhance the effectiveness of mechanisms for the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms, as well as to regulate the legal relations associated with the implementation of the provisions of the Family Code. Family law is known to be closely linked to various areas of law, including administrative, civil, civil, civil and procedural, labour, criminal law and other areas of law. Therefore, in connection with the adoption of the Family Code, all appropriate legislation should be adopted in accordance with the Family Code. The bill therefore proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences in particular. The Code of Merchandise Navigation, the Law of Ukraine "On Registration of Civil Status Acts", the Law of Ukraine "On Organs and Services in Juvenile Affairs and Special Institutions for Juveniles", as well as the Law "On Vocational and Technical Education" and some others. In particular, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, its article 212, is proposed to be reprinted, predicting that concealing circumstances that impede the registration of marriage or reports that are knowingly false to the public authorities of the registration of civil status acts entails a corresponding administrative responsibility. There are a few changes to the Civil Procedure Code and the Civil Code. In particular, it says "Ukrainian RSR." I would like to explain that this bill was submitted to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers at the end of last year, and given that the Civil Code will also be put into effect on 1 January of the following year, there is such a situation, but when this draft Law is finalized, it will need to be clarified accordingly. The point is that the Civil Code, the new Civil Code and the new draft Civil Procedure Code will be. which is now in existence and which is referred to the Supreme Council, the draft Civil Procedure Code, is adapted accordingly. And it will also have to be changed that this law will enter into force on January 1st of the following year. Thank you. I ask you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u138	Will there be questions, colleagues? No questions? Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u139	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u140	Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovich, head of the Legal Policy Committee, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u141	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues, I don't think there's much to say here. I am grateful to Anatolia Pavlovich, the Ministry of Justice for these changes that they have prepared, they are really necessary, and we often have a problem when we have a law in place, and we try to fix something while we are doing it. Today we are even ahead of time, for both the Civil Code and the Family Code, they enter into legal force, in effect, from the following year of January of the month. But now we want to make appropriate amendments to the legislation referred to by Anatoly Pavlovich. So the committee at its meeting had considered these proposals, really, they were necessary both in terms of terminology, and something else, in legal terms, I think we should do it. There's a conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that supports these proposals. The only observation was that both the Civil Code and the Family Code should be introduced together. We fixed it, we passed the law. So I think these proposals, this bill should be supported in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u142	If you have a question, please, Dear Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u143	Vasil Vasilovich! Our Civil Code will enter into force on 1 January 2004, the bill, as of 1 January 2003, will not eliminate this connection as a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u144	So we know about this, I think that the problems that arise on the second reading will be taken into account. Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u145	Any more questions? Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please. Next up, Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u146	The Party of Motherland Defenders. Solidarity. Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! The Family Code bill is meant to enter into force on January 1, 2004. I remind you that the changes that are now being proposed to agree should be brought into line with other legislative acts, such as replacing the “registration authorities” there with the words “State authorities for the registration of civil status acts” and changing to article 212. This codex, which provides for the imposition of a fine, is correct. They can be supported and accepted in the first reading. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and to the observations that we have made on the Committee of Legal Policy, and have now been made and that are about not being taken for granted. For example. In connection with the adoption of the Family Code, chapter one of the third suggests that the Civil Code be amended by the U.S.R. Considering that the Family Code has been effective since January 1, changes will be made only on January 1. You understand, and from now on, the new Civil Code will enter into force, which we have just adopted. Thus, the changes proposed in the Code do not matter. If they had entered immediately, they would have acted for some time. That way they won't have it. And in order for us to have the legal purity of this document, we need to clean it up. Next. I would like to thank the Science and Experimental Authority, there were Zubko, Voronyuk, Shevchenko, Petrchenko, for the serious comments that were proposed regarding changes to the Civil Procedure Code. Thus, not only does the family code provide for the recognition of parenthood, this is article 129, but also for the recognition of motherhood, article 131, also for the establishment of the fact of parenthood, and the fact of motherhood, article 132. Thus, the definition in the new editions of article 124 is prime. and article 126 of the CDC is not enough to deal with matters of parental recognition. And since article 218 of the Family Code provides for the consent of the child to adopt it, it should also be reflected in a new edition of article 265 of the Civil Procedure Code. In addition, considering that the Family Code also determines cases of adoption without parental consent, this article should provide for a strengthening of all articles of the Family Code from 217 to 222 regarding permission to adopt. You understand well that this is a very serious question. Such serious questions about article 1 of the Law on State Social Assistance for Lowly Families. There, too, we need to change the wording, take into account that, in accordance with article 3 of the Family Code, a single person is not a family but is entitled to a family member. Therefore, there is also a need to make changes and to explain in this context: A family of several persons living together in a shared household have mutual rights and responsibilities; a family member has a single person. It's for us to solve the legal literacy issues. Thank you for your attention. I'm done. I would ask that these changes be taken into account during the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u147	Dear Vasil Ivanovich. The next school. Dear colleagues! I ask you very much to follow the time limit, very many questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues! These changes to existing legislation are, in my view, a positive moment. The essence of the positive moment is as follows. We're finally starting to work in the system. Thus, when we adopt the Civil Code, we will, in large measure, amend a number of laws, such as the Tax Service, the Military Responsibility and the Military Service, the Compulsory State Social Insurance for Accidents in Work and Occupational Diseases, the Compulsory State Insurance for Incapacity, the Code of Trade Navigation for Ukraine and all others. I would like to say that if we take this matter seriously, then it will be understandable, for example, the ideology that comes with it when we discussed the subject. And today there is a bill according to which we distribute and amend a number of laws to compensate the Pension Fund for the funds they pay from the State budget. Therefore, when we are discussing this subject today, I believe that we must support this bill. Those comments here made by my colleagues, including those made in connection with the sherority, the inaccuracies that I am aware of, I think that the Committee should consider these issues, as a matter of urgency, to take account of the second reading. In general, I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u149	Thank you. Andrew Schlell. It doesn't, does it? Question completed. The vote will take place on Thursday in a week. Let us turn to the next question. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the appropriateness of existing legislative acts in the field of licensing]] Reportedly, Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Trelyaków Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u150	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. The purpose of the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine is to codify, i.e. to bring into line with the existing legislative acts in the field of licensing into the basic law - the Law on the licensing of certain economic activities as required by the "Final Positions" of the Act. During this period, special laws have established corresponding new activities that are subject to restrictions and separate standards, new standards that define the specific features of licensing for each particular activity. All of this has led to certain coalitions, which, in turn, have resulted in negative consequences for entities involved in entrepreneurial activities, as well as abuse by executive authorities who issue licences. The bill solves these coalitions, clarifying the definition of certain rules that have not changed in the last two and a half years. Yes, it is proposed to comply with the Basic Law on the licensing of 50 existing laws in Ukraine, taking into account proposals from ministries and departments. The bill proposes to remove from legislative acts activities in the field of licensing activities that are no longer subject to licensing but rather the name of the types of business that are licensed to comply with the Licensing Act. Organizing legislative acts that regulate the field of business licensing will allow for the creation of a single, uniform and transparent licensing procedure, and the elimination of a number of conflicts that include legislative acts in the field of licensing. By doing so, it will remove the legal barriers in the licensing sphere. Furthermore, given that there is a clear legislative norm, that licences are the only document of a permissive nature in the enterprise, the project is provided for in legislative acts that use these other terms, such as permits, special permits, etc., to replace the only term "licension" according to the licensing law. Please support this bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u151	Please, can I ask you a question? Dear Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u152	Say, please, this bill assumes that we are increasing the fines from 3.8 unladen minimums to 15, 20 unladen minimums. Where's the guarantee that it's this tightening that's going to benefit people, not push people away, and it's going to lead to something I don't know about abuse, when there's corruption, the opportunity to pay a man, not the state, and beyond? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u153	Thank you for asking. We think it'll be a guarantee because it's not such a big fine to use it like you said to pay the officials directly, not pay the fines. It's just what we've calculated, and we think it's appropriate to accept these numbers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u154	Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear reporter! I generally share the approach when you make changes to 50 pieces of legislation, but I have a question. You often use the formula here: in cases and in order of established legislation. I'm afraid of these formulas because of the expanded interpretation of the term "legislative." You got me. I'm afraid that the government today, unfortunately, is headed by those who are taking the lead and the fraudulent methods are still there. And that's why I'm afraid it might be the government's decision to accept and say that it's done according to the legislation. Maybe we'll write "to the law" and then it won't, all the questions will go away. And so round and round, according to the text of the law. And then it will be clearly a loving citizen, and this is about the rights of citizens as provided for in article 22 of the Constitution, and it may be possible to narrow down their rights or limit their rights, or again what happened to the indirect taxes that your committee fought with, and now, you know, they're successfully failed by the majority, the adoption of the Gorbachev law that was proposed. Why did none of your men yesterday say that, good people, save the people. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u156	Thank you for asking. I totally agree with you. It's not legislation, it's laws. I understand, and this was our principle so that there would be no proliferation of activities under the law. So in the second reading, we're going to replace this legislation completely with laws, and it's in the laws that we want to define these features of licensing that can arise in special, individual activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u157	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Corresponds to the Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Management of National Economy, Property and Investments - Montenegro Volodymyr Kirilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy, the administration of national agriculture, property and investment at the March 4, 2003, meeting, discussed the Ukrainian Cabinet's draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring Ukraine's legislative acts into line with the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity No. 2419 and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on its first reading as a basis. The bill provides for the introduction of Ukrainian laws governing the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity in accordance with the general provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. That is, all those laws that regulate economic activity should be brought into line with the law we have adopted on licensing certain types of economic activity. It's proposed to amend 50 laws. At the same time, the bill is small, it's on the 15th page of the amendment to 50 laws. That is to say, it is the most necessary changes, the ones that relate to the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. We've reached the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice for this bill. The conclusion is: here's the observation, there's the suggestions right, and the conclusion is that the adoption of this law will facilitate the conduct of a single state policy in the field of licensing. I would say that this is, indeed, a key phrase in order to pursue a single state policy in the field of licensing, and we need to introduce all other laws relating to economic activity in accordance with this basic law that we have adopted. And this law that we're adopting is a codifying law. And we have the conclusion of the Chief Research Administration, as always a solid, objective, constructive conclusion. There are many valid suggestions that we will take into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u159	Is there a question for Vladimir Kirilovich? No, sit down, please. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatolyevich, the next School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u160	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say and thank a certain part of the government, particularly the Committee on Entrepreneurship. I'd like to thank you for the back number, Alexander Volodymyrous Kugel, because she was released, and while these changes were being made, she was still working, because there was a complex approach. That's what we've been missing all along when we started making changes to the sub-items. And yet, up to 50 pieces of legislation are being amended and supplemented. I've been asking questions on the question, and now I'm stressing that throughout the text of the law, I strongly insist, we have to write down the bill, we have to write down that everything is happening in accordance with and in accordance with the law and everything. Don't let it get to you. I'll make this proposal, please consider it a second reading proposal. But I have specific proposals for the Investment Activities Act, where the editor has to write it down. This is paragraph 7 of the draft, this is article 3, article 8 of the Investment Act, which requires that the Expert Office, the Administration, be heard and recorded for the conduct of an economic activity that is subject to the licensing of participants in investment activities should be given appropriate licences, which are issued in accordance with the law. Next. Under the Law on State Taxation, there is no provision for the issuing of licences for the conduct of economic activity by the authorities of the State Tax Service. In this context, changes to paragraph 2, part 1, article 11 on the State Tax Service are proposed: "Patents. and special permits and introductions of certain types of agricultural activity. A very important change to the Health and Epidemiological Welfare Act, since this refers to the life and health of most people in Ukraine, article 13 of the Law on Economic Licensing, which relates to potential insecurity for human health, is appropriate: the types of economic activity associated with potential health risks are subject to a license in cases and order established by law. The licensing requirements for health and epidemiological welfare of the population are necessarily included in the commercial activities that involve the introduction of potential health risks. In general, I would like to adopt this law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u161	Thank you. Andrew Schlell. None. Solomonine. Please, Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u162	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The law is perfectly right and it's hard to add something extra to that definition, but I would like to draw our common attention to some of the little things that always hide the same thing that we're always trying to move away from these little things. First of all, I am concerned with changes and additions to the Nadra Code, as well as with legislation related to precious metals, stones, and organics, or amber. The license is issued. If it were only for such activities, this could be agreed upon and would not give rise to any comments. But if we look more thoroughly at the Ukrainian Code of Nadra together and other legislative acts, we have some very interesting things there. First of all, we need to get a license to extract uranium runes, and for other useful mines, which make up our state treasury, which are fixed in the state fund for the crops of beneficial fossils, we get licenses. Why? That's why we need to pay attention to this and the next time we're working on this, this is a constant process of refining these legislations, and we need to pay attention to this and make suggestions about licensing all kinds of fossil mining, not just uranium ore. Thank you, dear colleagues, for your attention. I think that on the first reading, we can be sure to adopt this bill with appropriate changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u163	Thank you. Question completed. As for the decision-making process, it will take place on the day of the vote. Let's move on to the next question. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning licensing of economic activities. Reported the deputy head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Trelakov Sergey Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u164	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's Amendments Act provides for a reduction in the number of commercial activities subject to licensing. Yes, the project is designed to amend 5 laws on pesticides and agrochemicals, land melioration, licensing of certain types of farming activities, on road transport, on the specificities of government regulation of the activities of control entities related to the production of compact discs. Thus, in order to address the issue of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Licence and the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, it is proposed to replace the word "agrochemicals" with "plant growth regulators" with the aim of significantly reducing the number of chemicals used in agriculture. A reduced edition of this type of activity is also proposed for the purpose of sorting out agricultural activities, excluding individual sentences, and individual engineering infrastructure objects. The bill also proposes to exclude the following types of household activities: the provision of passenger transport services and their luggage on taxis, the import of disk equipment for laser reading systems. The exclusions of these activities are based on these reasons. The bill proposes that only such activities as the provision of passenger and freight services by road should be left to avoid duplication of activities, since passenger transport in taxis is an integral part of the business of passenger and passenger transport. And second of all. Export and import licensing is not the subject of regulation of the Licensing Act, but will be governed by the Foreign Economic Act, which defines it not as an activity but as an export quota. With the adoption of the draft Law on Change, there will be an orderly process of licensing these activities. So please support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u165	Thank you. Any questions? Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments, please, will report to the head of the subcommittee of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Economic Policy, the Management of National Economy, Property and Investments at the March 4, 2003, meeting, discussed the Ukrainian Cabinet's draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Licensing of Economic Activities, and invites the Supreme Council to adopt it as a basis and as a first reading. [[Protocol No. 19]] [[Registration number 2532]] The bill is designed to organize a list of licensed agricultural activities and to harmonize the provisions of Ukraine’s separate laws with the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. The bill amends the following laws: licensing certain types of farming, road transport, land melioration, public regulation of production, export, import of discs for laser-reading systems for pesticides and agrochemicals. Given that the license is the only document of a permissive nature, the project is provided for in legislative acts that use the term "special licenses" to replace the term "licension". It's not a license, it's a license. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the License of Certain Economic Activities. The proposed changes will result in a reduction in the number of commercial activities that are subject to licensing and adjustments to certain laws of Ukraine. I would stress that the proposed changes will result in a reduction in the number of commercial activities that are subject to licensing. I think it should be our policy on this issue. Licensing is all the better, the less it is. And it's much less the better. Of course, it is necessary to put it where it is needed. And we get that where it's needed, it's gone, and where it's not available without it, it is. It is these bills that give order in this matter, and they lead to a reduction in the type of farming that is licensed but is covered by all those that need to be covered. That's what these bills are all about. We also have the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and we also have several valid suggestions that we will take into account in the drafting of the bill for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u167	Any questions? Please, Samantha. The question is yes? Yuri Petrovich. Volodymyr Kirilovich, please go to the rostrum. Listen to the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u168	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster Dear colleague! I pointed out that neither the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority has the right words for changing the treatment of pesticides and herbicides, although this is what is suggested to be changed in licensing. There is no conclusion of Minagroprompolitics and there is no consideration of this important issue of the Ministry of Ecology. Please tell me, did this happen by accident, or is this really the position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u169	That's a very good question. In the practice of our committee, I think not only of our own, but of all the other professional committees of the Supreme Council, it is stated that we do not make a decision on the bill, unless there is a conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Profiles, particularly, and if there is no conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In the first draft, I reported that there was the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice and the conclusion of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. As far as this law is concerned, you've just pointed out exactly what is the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, but we don't have the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think it's kind of our underwork, I have to say. We'll ask again, we've sent a letter of interest, we'll ask them again to express their views on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u170	Okay. Sergey Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u171	And we'll count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u172	Okay, okay. Sergey Ivanovich, from the government, please explain. Please sit down, Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u173	If you don't mind, I'll give you an explanation. It's a government committee, it's agreed, of course, with the Cabinet of Ministers. And that's what the Ministry of Agricultural Policy and the Ministry of Industrial Policy put together. So it's completely in line with the Ministry's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u174	Okay. Let's move on to the discussion. Please. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin The next miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill has also been introduced by both Alexander Kugel and the State Committee for Entrepreneurship. And it's very positive that radio audiences have to understand that the government finally understood, at least in the State Enterprise, that there is a need to reduce the number of commercial activities that are licensed. We need to make life easier for people. We've made it so hard. In particular, it is the provision of passenger services and their luggage for taxis, exports, equipment and disks for laser reading systems, design and construction of new ones, and the reconstruction of existing individual engineering infrastructures. At the same time, I would also like to make a comment that he made before the previous bill and I would like to ask you, Mr. Vice-President of the Black Committee, to take into account that you are writing "legislature" around the text. Let's say here, in particular, in the land melification law -- in article 13, paragraph 8, where the term "legislature" is proposed again. In other articles, other laws have the same term. I'd like to use the term "in the case defined by law" on this whole bill, "in the order established by law." That's the first one. The other one. I'd like to make another point like that. Because plant growth regulators are related to agrochemicals, the introduction of a law on licensing of certain types of farming activities, licensing of production and implementation, only plant growth regulators will result in organic, mineral and bacterial fertilizers, chemical fertilizers will be produced and implemented without a license. It's very wrong. That's impossible. And you can't let that happen. I don't know if it's a mistake or just a mistake. If it is not a mistake, it can simply be harmful. I'd like us to take this gap into account, and the committee would like us to consider it. And I'm making this amendment, and I'm already making it, and I'm asking her to count it as an amendment. In addition, the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity proposes to exclude licensing activities. related to the design of new and reconstructing existing individual engineering infrastructures. But what are these objects? What engineering infrastructures can be designed and built without a license, we do not know. This is a very broad definition. This is so possible that it can pose a threat to people’s lives. In order for this not to happen, I also ask you to specify it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u176	Thank you. Eugene Alexiovich Gorenik Next solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I haven't missed your attention in a while. The point is, we really need to thank the committee. Which is a complex and systematic approach to those problems that really exist in the field of licensing. Both the previous and these laws are necessary, but they need special control at the second reading stage. As far as the law is concerned. Of course, the proposal for another sphere of activity is exportable, the import of laser discs with some warning of melioration, although it also requires study, but it warns against the terminology associated with toxic chemicals and plant growth regulators. Virtually any agrochemicals are the regulators of plant growth. And on this background, but even more disturbances at the stage of the implementation of some of the toxins, the agrochemicals that have been killed, unfortunately our market. So that's why I would ask the committee to pay particular attention, to clarify the terms. At the moment, I find this formulation too dangerous and premature, it needs to be deleted in a second reading. It also raises doubts and questions about comparisons to the same type of farming, such as the transport of passengers and freight on general transportation and taxi fares. I'm sorry, but in a taxi it's a very profitable activity right now, and there's some lobbying of interests, although it might be useful, but on condition that there's a safe supervision of the financial responsibility for transporting passengers and luggage to a taxi without a license. This can eliminate abuse in this area of activity. I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading, that it be carefully analysed not only on one committee but on other committees associated with this activity, and that it be given appropriate conclusions from the relevant ministries so that there is no trouble as a result of the implementation of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u178	Thank you. Solomatin Yuri Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u179	Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Dear colleagues, the law is right, we will certainly accept it. But I want to make a point by the drafters of the bill and by the profile committee to make a request that the issue of this small change, as it was suggested in the bill, instead of the word "agrochemicals", write down the words "plant growth regulators" did not lead to unforeseeable consequences. I'd like to ask that the experts in Minecology and the main health department, the health and epidemiology services, should be working around this colossal area and give their respective conclusions. If there are no risks to human health and the environment, we can agree on that, and if there is such a danger, then that question should certainly be taken into account. I thank you all for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u180	Thank you. Question completed. As for the vote, the vote will take place on Thursday in a week. Let's move on to the next question. Let's look at the exclusion order. Here is Minister of Emergency Affairs and People's Protection from the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster Reva Grigory Vasilovich, who will report a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on fines for violations of fire safety, please. And let's move on to different things.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u181	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration is a bill prepared by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u182	I have announced the question, we have invited, nothing, calm down, please report. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u183	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u184	For your consideration, a bill prepared by the government to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, such as articles 175, 188 and 223. It is suggested that the number of administrative charges defined in articles 175 and 188 be supplemented by a warning. Part two of article 223 should be supplemented by this point: "the senior state inspectors of fire control have the right to fine citizens up to six non-taxable minimums of citizens' income and officials up to nine untaxed minimums of citizens' income." Arguments for the bill. First. The introduction of compression as a warning liberalizes administrative pressure on citizens, which meets the demands of the President of Ukraine. The other one. As of April 11, 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers imposed a number 500 on senior state inspectors for fire control, requiring them to be authorized to have administrative influence on the crime of fire safety. The bill has been conducted by experts, reconciliations and preliminary examinations, and meets the requirements of standard design technology in relation to which they would like to support and adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, will there be questions for the rapporteur? Dear Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u186	Please tell me you have a written warning as one of the measures of administrative recovery. What's that? A wolf in sheep's clothing or just a 126th Chinese warning? Why did the very precedent for written warning come about? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u187	I'm reporting. In view of the fact that there are minor wrongdoings, yes, or for the first time, and if we do not give this warning, we should make a protocol each time by law. And there's a very high pressure of administrative pressure on citizens. Thus, if a person has done, as they say, small or first time, we warn him. And so we don't make a protocol. We warned him, and he got it, and he got it. Legislation is being implemented. It's democratization, as it were, this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u188	Okay. Georgi Grigorovich Ponomarenko, please. Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u189	You say that these changes are taken in connection with a reduction in the administrative fine. Yesterday we passed the Minimum Untaxed Minimum Law. He's not 17 now, he's 85. I understand they've filed for September 22nd. What about yesterday’s law?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u190	I got it. Of course, fines should be reviewed, but this is not just for breaking the rules of fire safety but for everyone in connection with yesterday’s vote in the Supreme Council. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u191	No more questions? Have a seat, please. With regard to the committee, the committee supports the bill. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please. Next Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u192	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, the bill needs attention. But I'm worried about something else. I am concerned about what was bothering me today about the national MPs, the warning, even when he was burning his own apartment or something. I'm saying that anything can be anecdotic. But I would like to understand for myself, and I would like our listeners to understand. We specifically forbid DAI inspectors from deciding on the size of the fine. We're not moving forward on fire inspectors in this direction. At the same time, something needs to be done to prevent wrongdoing, to prevent what is done in the woods, in the parks. And I'd like to not only in this narrow place where we're warning words, first of all, I don't think we need to write. Warning is the preventive action of our service, your ministry. That's it. If the administrative withdrawal does not have a warning, does not carry some serious load, let us speak frankly. And what should be warned if they smoke in the woods? What is to be warned if houses are burned, and the consequences are so tremendous? I believe that serious adequate measures should be taken, and in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of part 2 of article 223 should not be supplemented by the word "warning or." I mean, make tougher demands. And taking advantage of the opportunity that there is now a minister here, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine's national interests in meeting the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of International Conventions, agreements on the prevention and response to emergency situations, the protection of people's lives on the water, the rescue in the sea, the elimination of oil spills today are being used inadequately. I just want to draw your attention to this. I asked the right question. Now, I'm going to be speaking in "The Different" to focus on this, to talk about what that led to. I don't know what this has to do with anything. Whether this is related to the fact that the new direction is still in progress is being suppressed. I'd like you to have a level of responsibility not below the deputy or the secretary of state or the secretary of state who would answer these questions, so that Ukraine would not count the number of the dead, but would warn them all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u193	The word is given to Eugene Gorenik. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u194	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Valley Election District No.89. Dear colleagues! The bill states that it is aimed at reducing administrative pressure on citizens in middle and small businesses, but after reading this law, I honestly don't see any reduction in administrative pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u195	Thank you. I can't see the legal content of running as much as a warning. What now prevents controlling services from issuing warnings? It will simply be papermaking for the purpose of some showy activity. The same applies to the expansion of the circle of persons who may issue warnings or fines in connection with the appointment of a senior inspector. I'm sorry, but any ministries and departments are going to change their personnel warehouses, are we going to change the relevant legislation every time? I think it's underwork by the Ministry staff and disrespect for the Supreme Council. On the basis of this, I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u196	Thank you. Vladimir Cherniak. Shall we finish? All right, we're done here. As for the vote, it will take place on Thursday in a week. Joseph Vicentiovich does not insist on further consideration of matters? Okay. Please let me know who signed up for "Virgin" and we'll move on to "Virgin." Karmazin, next one is Grosjev. Please, Your Honor, but to every request: Follow the Rules, as Joseph of Winsky says.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u197	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Gennady Andriyovich. I have the rules of the Yavorowski People's Deputy, please, it's written right behind me, so please take this into account. I wanted to draw your attention to a few serious and acute questions. I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine about the painful problems that exist in the country today. I'd like to tell you about them. These are a few problems that are very, very serious. This is a problem that I now wanted to draw our Minister's attention to in the implementation of the requirements of the Constitution, ratified international conventions, agreements on emergency prevention, response to them, protection of people's lives on water, search and rescue at sea, the elimination of oil spills and the protection of the Black and Asian Seas from pollution, the Ministry of Emergency Situations and People's Protection from the Chernobyl disaster, the Multidefence, the Muntrans of Mnagropolitics, the Mnpolienergo, the State Border Service, the National Shareholder, the Naftegas of Ukraine, in the context of the operation of the sub-system of response to the emergency situations on water supplies and the response of the state-owned state-owned response to technological and technological developments. This state-wide problem is very acute, as defined in article 27 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the protection of people's lives by the State, which is specific to other acts of Ukraine. So, the main problems that are today are that neither the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine nor the ministries have done anything during the years 2000-2003 to provide practical enforcement of the commitments made under these international conventions and laws of Ukraine. And the frequent structural changes and staffing changes in the central executive bodies have led to a weakening of control by the Cabinet of Ministers over the implementation by the central executive body of Ukraine's laws, presidential decrees and previous government decisions on the functioning and development of the emergency response system on water bodies of the single State system of executive bodies on prevention and response to technological and natural emergencies, which has been created to ensure and fulfil Ukraine's international obligations to cooperate with the Black Sea countries in preventing these situations. Inconsistency by the Ministry of its responsibilities, as defined by Presidential Decree of 96, Number 1005, resulted in the absence of expenditure in the State Budget for 2003 to meet the requirements of government regulations on the approval of the State's programme to improve the functioning of the State's ship safety system. The offshore oil pollution disposal centre has been blocked, there has been no work to do to stockpile emergency rescue forces with oil spills, and so far there is no state plan to eliminate oil spills in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas. There is no legally approved system of interaction with the search and rescue units of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation, and in particular with regard to the elimination of oil pollution. As a result of the violations of the current legislation, such as the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation 1599 "On the Basic Principles for the Establishment in Ukraine of a Subsystem for the Rescue and Elimination of Hazardous Pollution on the Water of a Single State System for the Prevention and Response of Technological and Natural Exceptions, the President's decree of 99th year and so forth. What led to this? I remind those who didn’t realize that I had a speech with Yavorowski, and I apologize. Please don't disturb me, please. I'll tell you that Sevastopol has been dismantled from the sea rescue and coordination center of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, dismantled and transported to the city of Odessa to receive distress signals from the sea and not installed. At the same time, in January of this year, the Tunisian vessel Amir-1 disappeared. In April 2003, in the Tarhankut area, an Azerbaijani couple loaded their cars. On May 1, 2003, there was a collision between the Pallada and the Eastern Seinener. Seiner's sunk. This is due to a lack of action. It's a nuisance. On May 2nd of this year, in the Sevastopol area of responsibility, there was a collision between the Maltese vessel Junior-M and the Spanish tanker Nuria Tapikas, which caused the breaches and fires on the Junior-M vessel, which died. On May 3, a fire broke out on a Bulgarian ship in the Sevastopol area of responsibility. One person received care and died from failure to cure disasters and lack of management of the State Search and Rescue Service of the Ministry of Emergency Situations of another helicopter to ensure that people were rescued in emergencies at sea. At the same time, we are allowing money to be spent on private flights by the President of Ukraine on our assets, including the use of military aviation. The city of Mariupoli is blocked by the deployment of the Maritime Emergency Rescue and Coordination Centre of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the dismantled Regional Rescue and Coordination Centres in Cherkas and Hmelnicki. That's a lot of questions. And then I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that in the Black people, the executive power is struggling with the media. I draw the attention of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and of the Supreme Court of Painterenko to the fact that the courts under pressure of the administration have decided to raise astronomical sums in order to strangle freedom of speech in the Montenegrins. Good people, yesterday we approved the Supreme Court's leadership for life, come on, respond, please. Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u198	The word is given to Anatoly Grzezhev. Next Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u199	Dear Gennady Andreevich! Every MP, I'm out of the Rules, has problems -- and they write from places, and so many problems, and they can only be said in cases like the Difference. Therefore, I would ask you to continue to abide by the Rules and to allow today to speak to those deputies who will not speak at the time, i.e. to extend today's "Variance".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u200	For 15 minutes, absolutely. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u201	Now, basically. There are some problems that cannot be addressed politically. Economic and social stability in society. Food security is such. You know how worrying the situation is on this issue. Socialists from this high rostrum have repeatedly drawn the attention of the highest authorities to the need to address this issue without delay and to adopt urgent and effective rules to prevent a possible breakup. To provide food for the population. We were asked to declare a state of emergency in the agricultural sector, if necessary. Unfortunately, our initiatives have not been adequately supported and responded by the executive. We reiterate our insistence on a detailed, genuine examination by the Government of Ukraine, the issue of food supplies to the population and the prevention of a price explosion on food. This is a fundamental issue and Parliament should know what is being done to address this threat. According to the current public action of the authorities, there is every reason to assume that the power of the authorities will be placed on unfavourable weather conditions. We state, however, that it is not so much about them as it is about the ability of the current regime to anticipate and take forward action. That's the point. We reiterate the harmful nature of the reforms under way. Instead of reforms, the village's logistical, organizational and social demographic base was virtually destroyed. The Government's policy towards peasants is expressed in the language of the 1930s to eliminate agriculture as a class. That was a fact that Ukraine and its people could not have been harmed more. And the last. It's a robbery policy against those who feed us. The top of cynicism and the degradation of power can be described as the pricelessness that exists in the countryside today. Addressed to me was the address of the inhabitants of the village of Semenuka Bariszewski district, Kiev. They say they're out of jobs, out of wages, out of the economy. The only source of survival is the subsidiary economy. Think of the pressure to turn him over to price policies. Think about it. They buy 35 copies per litre, and at their work, every scoundrel makes a fortune, and it breaks in broad daylight, and there is no power before that. A second example from the Herson region. Rural residents pay for the electricity they use to supply drinking water for 30 copies per kW. So everything is done to finally destroy the village. We cannot stand in the way of these issues. Dear Gennady Andreevich, the issue is very acute, and I ask that the text of my statement be sent to the Government to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u202	Thank you. The word is given to Melnik Mikola Eutycheiovich, the next Kostinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u203	Mikola Melnik, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnichtina Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies. The absence of the agrarian sector for 12 years has caused instability and inconsistencies in agrarian policy. Januković’s cabinet, like the previous ten cabinets that came out of the criminal post - Soviet business environment, was managed and managed by the country on the basis of a bizarre hybrid of imagination. Team economy and predatory capitalism. The deep long - term crisis caused the collapse of the village’s social sphere and the poverty of its inhabitants. Today, the poor are robbed to give to the rich. Such a crime is committed by the President's Administration, in the Cabinet of Ministers, and not one such crime against peasants has been committed by us, MPs. This is evidenced by yesterday's vote on the draft law to a sugar-sorbiter whose MPs, for the sake of personal food or indifference to the village, are destroying the domestic sugar producer. Hope remains behind the veto of the President. Yesterday’s second crime against peasants was committed by MPs, not voting on draft law number 3044. Last year’s weather conditions, the destruction of wheat crops, the looting of peasants with low grain prices, meat, milk, and so forth, leading the village to complete bankruptcy — all of this is a planned, elaborate action of criminal clans sitting in all the branches of government, predators watching a peasant die to take possession of property and land. All in one voice say that the law on bankruptcy, the healing of the village, the disgruntled, could destroy this law. This is blasphemy and pharisaicism in the politics of criminals. Dear MPs, there can be no fools who run private businesses in the village, a hundred percent. The past and last year at the Winnitzchina sugar mills, Gonorovna Yampilski district, Dozens of sugar beet producers have been robbed in the Katulchin region for tens of millions of dollars. The powerful structures to which the victims were addressed do not respond, but the taxpayers ’ fines on businesses that sold their own sugar at a lower price, as stipulated by the Cabinet of Ministers’ decree of 01.03. 2001 number 201, they're getting our peasant. Hence, after a peasant is driven into a dead financial corner, commercial structures and banks provide these poor businesses for bankruptcy. Of the 450 deputies, only 79 are concerned about the anxiety of the peasant. The Agrarian Policy Committee, and I myself, will ask for number 3044 to reintroduce the agenda again. The bankruptcy moratorium will continue at least until the end of this hot year. An editorial at the Village News organized a round table on the issue of bankruptcy of agricultural enterprises. At the round table were invited leaders of private enterprises from all regions of Ukraine. In their votes, there was great disillusionment about yesterday’s vote. Hence, voting is needed as an oxygen cushion, as the processor said. And it's not about the bankruptcy moratorium, it's about restoring the debtor's ability to pay, and by the spring of 2004, or at least by the end of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u204	Boris Ivanovich Kostinyuk. Next Nightshenko. Stick to the time limit. I'm sorry, Bogdan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u205	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For a little more than a year, the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council is working, and the electorates in general are grateful that they have the opportunity to observe and monitor events in the Supreme Council thanks, in particular, to radio broadcasts. But at the same time, they ask why non-State language is used quite often from the highest rostrum of the state. Dear National Deputies! You need to understand that in 13 years of independence, Ukraine has grown a whole generation of young people who have studied a language other than the one they sometimes associate with in the Supreme Council. They do not always understand what is going on during sessions, misunderstanding terms, and they rightly require that information be obtained in the national language itself. Today’s state of Ukrainian language in our country can be considered critical. The violation of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine has become the norm for senior officials on Bankova and Gruszewski Street. In turn, such a mother is unrepentantly supported by a regional nomenclature in many areas of Ukraine. Surprisingly, the President of Ukraine, who should be the guarantor of the Constitution himself, is in violation of it, especially by appointing individuals who do not speak the national language. Was she 13 years old to study it? And can such a situation be called outright disregard for the Basic Law - Constitution of Ukraine on the part of government officials? I'm also asking a question to the Head of the Supreme Council. Too bad he's not here right now, but I hope they pass it on. Why, when they speak in the Supreme Council and break the Rules, such as taking the time to speak or not, the Head then makes notes, turns off the microphone, and so on. And when they speak in a non-State language, there is absolute indifference to the leadership of the Supreme Council. But it is also a violation of the Rules and a violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. Dear Head! Ask the President of Ukraine, the government, not to be sent to the session hall as reporters to send officials who do not speak the national language. Follow the rules of the Rules of Procedure in the session hall, and do not provoke deputies to make their own arrangements. Today, the full functioning of the Ukrainian language is a matter of national security. The attitude of power toward the national language is a test for the exercise of Ukrainian national interests, the protection of the rights and freedoms of the national nation. And the Supreme Council should provide for an article on administrative responsibility for violating the 10th article of the Constitution of Ukraine. And please consider my statement to be a parliamentary request to the leadership of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u206	Okay. Nightglass by Mikola Petrovich, next by Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u207	The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine, 160 constituency. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. There are things that per nature touch each of us, obvious are, first and foremost, the question of providing every person with food, water, heat, medicine. These were the questions that were the subject of my delegation's appeal during the exercise of their duties. Yes, in September 2002, my request was about unwarrantedly high prices for bread and bread products. In March of this year, the question of the price of the water being delivered by the product was raised, and so forth. Regrettably, the answers signed by the heads of government, ministries and authorities did not produce the desired results, and I am forced to return to these problems today. In particular, the unwarranted price of bread and bread - making products. I was trying to figure it out, and to my electorate, to figure out why it was the price that was going to be made for the dairy products in the 91st year when the price of wheat, for example, left behind in the third and fourth classes, when that price fell to the grain group twice. I did not get a clear explanation and had to turn to that question again. Strange things have gone through my district and 160 more constituencies. I've been informed that after the Antimonopoly Committee's examination of the price for Underwater bread, Darnitsky, Baton Distinctive, from a higher species, has been cheaper. Two months later, these bread-boiled products were removed from production. The same is true of water. I'm opening the government newspaper of the Supreme Council today, which says that in Crimea, water prices go up by 20 percent. How much will the subject pay for the tax? I would like to reiterate that, for today, water, which is from deep wells, is the wealth of Ukraine, the wealth of each of us. How much does it cost, how much does it pay for 1 tonne? We know that a liter of water costs one and a half bracelets, and we know the subjects of farming that do this, and we see the shell, the Eden, the Coke, and so on. And he's paying $4.5 a ton to the budget! We're breaking the question again, asking the government -- let's go back and look at it. Next. Half a minute. Yesterday we approved a huge grant to agriculture again. I asked the Ministry of the APC to explain the existing system of subsidizing all rural farming. Because a farmer hides the village, he hides the one person. No one is paying attention to them. And I got a formal receipt from the APC. Dear colleagues! Yesterday we reconfirmed your aid of almost $536 million, please think about it and offer us a mechanism that is understandable and useful for each of us. I'm asking you to take this as a re-examination of the issues that have been raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u208	Ivan Mikhailovich Stojko. Next nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u209	Ivan Stojko, National Movement of Ukraine, "Our Ukraine" faction, 166th Bučick electoral district, Ternopilščina. Dear national deputies, distinguished radio listeners, dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, the whole of Ukraine celebrated the day of memory, the day of Shevchenk’s return to his homeland, to Montenegro. We, so different from the world view, went to Taras to worship the Ukrainian spiritual prophet in order to confide in our good things in order to ask ourselves, Who are we? Where are we going? What's going to happen to us tomorrow? For Shevchenko is for us a guide; it is a higher world that can be achieved, not by emotion, but by light. Sadly, though, not everyone likes the fact that we have the greatness of the spirit, that we have someone who unites us regardless of political views, whether we are left or right, extreme or reasonable. Finally, Taras Grigorovich brought us together into a single Ukrainian family with ancient traditions and a constant search for self-improvement. That's not what everyone likes. Once again, someone would like to separate us, humiliate us, and subdue us. Thus, on May 20, the eve of the great Cobzar’s veneration, an article by Alexander Karevin, an unknown writer, appeared in the newspaper Kiev Telegraph, which challenged Ukraine and the Ukrainians living on their home land and scattered around the world. Dear colleagues, the dirty article is not pluralism of thought, it is a disgraceful and clearly planned act against the Ukrainians, trying to humiliate us, humiliate us and destroy us. And by no chance is this done in the Kievsky Telegraph newspaper, which is hosted by the updated National MP, Andry Derkac. But they will not be able to make Kobzar a drunkard, a harlot, or an unbeliever, for such a leader of a nation as Taras is the gift of God, this is eternity, this is the genius of all time that has brought together a philosopher and poet, scientist and artist. I wonder, though, why are those who should be more silent than those who are obliged to stand by their status to defend our shrines? Why is the Ministry of Culture silent? Why is the State Information Committee silent? Any government structures that should protect Ukraine? Where did the esteemed Vice Prime Minister from the humanitarian issues of Dmitri Tabchnik go? Imagine for a moment what would have happened in Russia if someone had attacked Pushkin or in Poland on Mickevich? Because in this case, not Taras Shevchenk, but all of us were humiliated, drowned, and ridiculed. So today, on May 23, I am addressing the Ukrainian people, all conscious Ukrainians: not silent! Let's turn our backs on the provocateurs, those woe writers for whom there is nothing holy except silver in their own pocket! Shall we gather around the eternal Taras, around the wake of the sleeping nation? Let us be firm and firm! Let us build the Ukraine that Shevchenko had dreamed of, with its truth, power, and will. Because we are not the giftless hoochs that someone wants to introduce us to, we are the great world nation that under the flag of Cobzar will build Omrian Ukraine. Make sure our Taras is a genius and a guide. So by protesting, I am destroying this disgraceful, giftless writing and dirty newspaper. Eternal glory to Taras Shevchenk!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u210	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, next Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u211	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we're looking at "Virgin" on Friday, on the last day of the week, I suggest we turn it into a flight breakdown. In fact, it was already done by the MP Melnik, the other deputies. Since time is limited, I would like to draw attention to some of our decisions this week. I would say this is the main conclusion: the Supreme Council is holding state positions. And it's a national interest. Last Thursday, the Supreme Council voted on a draft decree on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prepare for the formation of a single economic space -- Ukraine, Belarus, the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan. I have absolutely nothing against integration processes, they are completely normal and inevitable all over the world, including in our region, but what causes denial? The objection is that the only economic space is an undefined, invalid, adhesive and politicized term. There's a valid, normal, clear term for "free trade zone." Let's ask about the free trade area. No one anywhere in the world asked about the only economic space. Do you know how the EU came about? The EU came from a common market. There are free economic zones everywhere. There was also a free trade agreement in SND territory. All the countries, all the parliaments, all the countries ratified, except Russia. Russia is not comfortable. Ukraine enjoys a free economic zone. Let's ask the question right, right, balanced. Next. Last Thursday, the Supreme Council did not vote in favour of the Government’s Food Security Day. Last Thursday, the Supreme Council did not vote in favour of introducing a moratorium, even if for a year of bankruptcy of agricultural enterprises. At the same time, the Supreme Council voted in favour of importing 360,000 tons of sugar-sparing sugar. On the one hand, this will complicate our negotiations with the World Trade Organization. Because an overpriced quota, on the other hand, will drop the price of a sugar beet, and this will contribute to the destruction of the beet-sugar complex. And for the rest. We make a lot of noise about political reform. Up until now, the Supreme Council has been unable to reform its own activities, unable to adopt the Rules. By the way, there's a draft decision of the Supreme Council of the Hare MP proposing amendments to the Rules and I suggest that it be placed in the agenda. I was the National MP of the Soviet Union, and we had a 10 minute speech from the rostrum. Shortest performance of 10 minutes. Three minutes from the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u212	True, even Joseph of Winsky, vote for the changes in the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u213	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u214	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u215	What forces oppose the adoption of a normal Supreme Council regulation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u216	It was in the USSR, please. WINLAND’S JOSEPH VIKENTIIOVIZ, GUROV’S NEXT Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, Winsky, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Gennady Andryovich, I'm afraid I have to start with you. That's what Blackman said, it's all your fault. For if the leadership of the Supreme Council does not want order in the Supreme Council, it will never be. And I'd like to take another look at that. I understand that you're in the Presidium, and we can't stand you there in this respect, but at least in some way we have to be consistent, some rules of the game we have to endure. I fully agree with the previous statement that the Supreme Council has been giving up a lot lately. And I'm told that the most important thing is that it today gives rise to the creation of a democratic state, to democracy. An example of this is that we made a statement Tuesday from our faction on the occasion of Suma’s election. This was the general rehearsal in Suma, how the election of the President of Ukraine should be, the election without an election. All of our discussions about an independent state, about democracy, about a social state are over if the Supreme Council is unable to respond to the shameful fact that took place during the election of the head of Suma. Think for yourself, we're silent, but 20,000 bags have come to the polls to wipe out everyone or ruin the ballots. More people were spitting into the eyes of this authority, coming to the polling stations, as well as those who voted for today’s mayor of Suma. We want this situation to have confidence in authority. Do we want to have any prospects in this Ukraine in this situation? It's impossible to just talk about it. Again, we made a statement. Neither the President nor the Supreme Council nor the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Prosecutor have responded. Hennaday Andriyovich, this should be done by you, too, you are responsible for this with Lithuania. It is impossible to act in this way toward the people who are now authorized to represent the nation in the State. That electoral Sabbath that took place in Suma is a disgrace to the state, to society. And we need to make serious conclusions. Sonic lawlessness and the gulf of the banditry that took place there is to be evaluated first and foremost in the Supreme Council. So I insist that we assign a committee to the relevant Supreme Council to conduct a special investigation into this situation, to create a special commission of inquiry, apparently on this issue. It's not just an intermediate fact, it tells us that we've put a gang on the side of the nation and the fate of the people. And we have no right to react. I think we should go to the President today officially. If the President has a drop of more conscience, he has to bring immediate direct presidential rule into sums, he has to remove all this power, which is in sums and appoint new elections in sums, and carry them out as required by law, otherwise it's just impossible. We're going to do everything we can to establish the situation of democracy in Suma and Suma to make the area a reservation, and again it's our fault, Gennady Andryovich. For more than a year now, we are talking about what is compatible with the position of Governor Szczerbán. Why does he do that? He has a mandate as a deputy, he hides himself from these crimes with a parliamentary mandate, we leave him in two chairs, and he creates whatever he wants, and who doesn't tell him. Can we not resolve the matter in court so that this decision can be taken? No, we just don't want to do it, and we're doing it consciously. I must say that full responsibility for the “screw” in the Sumskia region is vested in the leadership of the Supreme Council, including. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u218	The word is given to Vadim Gurov. Next Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u219	Dear fellow MPs! Respectable radio audiences! Vadim Gurov, Krivbass. Yesterday was adopted and I think the 2003 final budget. A number of laws have been passed that have long been in line. The adoption of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Individuals has given rise to particular joy and universal pride. Yet 30 percent is just over 10, but much less than 40 for all categories of recipients. This law has been working in Russia for more than a year and has produced good results: reduced wage burdens, the scope of the law has increased, and most importantly, it is a first step away from the shadows, and we are saying that around one budget is in the shadows, it is turning back. It won't do any good to pay a salary in envelopes. This law has entered into force since 2004. But I'd like to draw everyone's attention to one thing. There's nothing going on. No one has yet been able to break Lomonosov's law. The President, the Government, the deputies of my colleagues every day, every day, insist that the main task is to get the money out of the shadows, and that life is about to become completely different. Here's what I want to talk about. I mean, I want to show you how we're doing the tasks that we're doing in life. Article 52 of the 2003 budget reads as follows: “Part of the revenue of the State and the Treasury”, and now we have added corporate enterprises to transfer them to the Social Fund. That's right, now it's in the common fund. The state is the master and the master, you know, the barin. He does what he wants. That's what I wanted to do. On 22 April, a legal act broke all the good intentions of our law. First of all, he's four months late. The money arrived all 2002 and 1 quarter of 2003 long ago, they were not there. Secondly, it is no longer part of the income as the law has stated, but of the dividends as stated in the decree. And if it's dividends, then there's still a profit tax on it. For example, if Krivorostal is to pay 120 million for 2002 and 1 quarter of 2003 and another 30 million, 30 percent for profit, it is 156. That money's long gone. It's stopped now. That's 300 million. I wonder what to do with this business. And thirdly, where did that 15 percent come from? Comrade MPs! Listen to that figure. I took a sample of 230 privatized enterprises. Of these, only 7 enterprises paid dividends. Seven! That's five million. And from one enterprise, they want to take 15 percent. So here's what I want to say. If we want to get rid of this budget surplus that's going on, we need to make clear rules first. And what we're doing now, that's to say, on a profit tax we're doing twice, is that public enterprises, they're not worse than private businesses, they're also going to hide their profits. God forbid that's gonna happen. That's why I'm calling for what? In order for the ruling to be reviewed and differentiated. I'm paying for what I have to do. But only within reasonable limits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u220	Alexi Petrovich Malinowski, next to School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, I address you first of all, because there are few of us left in this room. And I'd like to remind you of one of those interesting situations. We had an emergency situation in Ukraine about two weeks ago, and the PP is said to have been lost by our President. He went to the wrong region and exposed extraordinary criminal violations in the Navy system. Twenty-seven criminal cases have been violated. Before that, literally about a month ago, the president probably wandered off and fell and found out that we were missing grain in the state, and he was gone. In the Cherkas region alone, 16 criminal cases have been committed. So I have a request or a request to our President. Dear Mr. President, let's go again and go, for example, to the Cherkas region. So let's go to this small village of Onojyevka, the Tamil district, the market day, and listen to what people are saying there today. People today do not say that bad authority, not that someone has done something wrong, but that people are talking about how to survive. How about surviving today a 90-year-old grandmother who lives alone and gets 90 bucks a pension? How to survive today a young boy in a village 20-25 years old who doesn't have a job, and he already has a family, a little kid walks. There is no answer to that question. Let's move on, Leonid Danilovich, and go to the same school in this village. It's a first-third-degree village school. The school has not been provided with technical tools for more than 10 years, but the circular is from the center, from the area, from the Education Directorate: "To resolve the issue of providing a classroom with a computer." From where? Where? Let's move on. We travel to the Zvenirovsky district, the village of Shevchenkovo, the cottage of Taras Grigorovovich, where he was born. But, I'm sorry, the village is broken down into two opposite camps today. The host came, as we say, to collect crops, not to count people, to sell technology. And today, there are people who have taken it and where the brothers are. And the situation is deadlocked. The prosecutor can't solve the question, there's no answer to the question. They'll tell you about it, you won't get scolded, you'll be asked what to do next? Let's move on. The same area, the village of Kozatzke. The cave village, though it was grumbling to extract coal. Today, the hospital is almost ready, with 70 grand missing. The hospital will be ready. It'll be upgraded. There's no money. Clearly not in the budget. What about state policy? What about the development of health care? What is more, the rate of rapid relief has been accounted for. And such examples can be cited in many ways, they are characteristic of all of Ukraine. So it seems to me, Leonid Danilovich, that if we were to go to Ukraine with you, unplannedly, off-plannedly, yes, lost, you would have made one conclusion for yourself, perhaps today's president. This is the place. ‘ You need to write your application, go to church, ask God to pardon him and go to rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u222	Please, Andrew School. Sergei Slabenko. Next up, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u223	Sergey Slabenko, electoral district No. 19, Volinsky district, non-factional. The last word is the answer to journalists and other interested parties about me joining other factions, the change in position supported by the faction "Our Ukraine" and the attitude towards technical errors that have so disturbed my voters. I would now like to inform you that I have received a reply from First Deputy Secretary of State of the Cabinet of the Ukraine, Alexander Schnipko, that there has been a review on Volina of compliance with the legislation on the conversion of citizens, the Ukrainian law on the status of the national MP and the Presidential Decree on the Tax Procedures for the Enforcement and Enforcement of the Constitutional Right of Appeal by Citizens. A number of violations have been identified by officials in Volin County, Volin County State Administration, as required by law. It's an order. First. Systematic consideration of compliance issues. The other one. To draw attention to personal responsibility for a timely and objective consideration of the appeal of national MPs. Third. Consider the question of drawing on the disciplinary responsibility of officials who have broken the law. Why was I asked a question right now? Because the disagreement between the various branches of executive power has led to a critical state of funding for construction projects in the Volin region. As an example, I can bring mine number 10. Today, it can be noted that only the actions of the deputy corps and the sequence of interests of the Volin region have allowed at least a partial solution to the problems that arise in the constituencies of Volin. For example, according to an official report from Deputy Prime Minister Hajduk of Ukraine, Minister of Fuel and Energy Jermilov, in May 2003, Minffin planned a draft of amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 27 December 2001 on the approval of the order of designation and the granting of State support to coal-based enterprises. I insist: First, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy should consistently maintain its position on the allocation of mine number 10 for the construction of 35 million in 2003. That's right. The other one. The Volin district government, together with interested parties, has a position to support the financing of problem issues related to the closure of mines in Novovolinsk. The Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance has finally agreed to the proposals and to allocate the necessary funds in a timely manner, as the volume and sources of funding are not defined for the year 15.05 2003, and the construction situation is beyond criticism. The Committee of the Supreme Fuel and Energy Council hears a meeting of a committee of officials from Minpalevenergo, Minfin, the Local Government’s Mine Economics and Mine Managers on financing the construction of mine number 10 and other support programs for industrial enterprises and gas pipelines in Lubomir. The Cabinet of Ministers will give appropriate instructions on how to resolve these issues and create a special commission to be immediately assigned to Wallin to resolve urgent issues from the critical state of the construction program. My speech is to be considered as an address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u224	The word is given to Melniczuk Mikhail Vasilovich. Next Warming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u225	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region, Bukovina without Bauer. Dear friends, reverent radio listeners! I would like to explain one problem that exists in Ukraine today is the problem of grain and bread. As head, as co-chair of the interim commission of inquiry on grain and bread market studies in Ukraine, I am confident that everyone will agree with me, saying that for today's year 2002 is not as terrible as today's year, 2003. The situation announced to us just a week ago by the APK Minister Ribhub changes completely, and every day. If we had information about what's left of the eight million hectares of winter seed sown this year remains 3 million 600,000, today is already one and a half million. Today, we consider the winter state to be about 3 million gross grains, food wheat, and grain. We need 7 million tons so that we can feed our citizens for the internal needs of Ukraine, because today the government has announced that the purchase costs are being allocated, import of one and a half million tons, we need only 8.5 million tons of grain to be imported into the country for a marketing year. Ukraine is an exporter of 11 million tons this year, becoming a powerful importer. This tells us that there was no bread in Ukraine, and that falsification that took place at the regional level, it continued or, so to speak, continued the clerk’s chair to those who dealt with the adjectives. And I think that in the near future, the leadership of the Supreme Council will allow the interim commission of inquiry to work hard, to create the right conditions. And the people of Ukraine are not only in the face of Kozachenko, for it is not the only one responsible for what is in Ukraine today, but thousands of names will be called those who forgered means the question of the gross harvest of grain. Gennady Andriyovich! The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine calls for a state of emergency in agriculture. All available resources are directed to save the Agro-industry complex. To hold a closed meeting of the Supreme Council with the participation of the Government and the National Security Council to discuss issues. Hunger is history, and the fact is, it's on the verge of another famine. With no time to send all the national MPs to the secretary, each MP has gone to the constituency, let him pass and look at his own eyes: no winter, no bread, need to save the situation in Ukraine. You have to buy 7 million food wheat, 4 million tons of seeds you have to do it on government resources and on loan to the peasants so they can sow at least in autumn and so that the next year is fertile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u226	The word is given to Heat. None. Garmash. Please, Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovitch. Next Singer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u227	Vladimir Puzakov. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Kirovogradština. The Ukrainian authorities have launched a noisy, advocacy campaign “Holdomor 33”. Every day, twice a day, the Ukrainian radio programme runs this dirty campaign with the help of American and English political scientists, accusing Soviet power of genocide over its own people. Official launch and political ton of this company. President of Ukraine. No one has slandered their people so wickedly against the mere history of our State. How much can we talk about "Holdor 33" and how much can we waste our people? Take a look at Tobacco, Udovenko, Kuchma, Kravchuk and many others, around you, the destruction of the people, the decline of its size by 4 million from hunger and cold. Where you were before that, when you were in Soviet times, you ruled out almost all the white light and never talked about the criminal acts of the Communists. And now you're talking like "Snickers" chewing. You did not know the history of the party, forgetting that thousands of communists, especially party and Soviet leaders, had divided the tragic fate of Soviet agriculture. The entire collection of archival materials does not give any reason to believe that this famine was planned in advance. The President of Ukraine and his environment are probably very bad friends with mathematics, claiming that the famine of the 33rd has claimed 10 million lives. I'll get reliable statistics. In 1932, the population reached 34.5 million, from 1933 to 33.4 million. Thus, it fell by 1.4 million, including an average annual death rate of 400,000 and a famine rate of 700,000. Voter comrades, think for yourselves what crocodiles stand for the tears of our reformers and Democrats about the victims of the famine of the year 33, who do not want to see and say that their efforts have led to an average reduction of 300-400 000 people today. So, ladies, don't put your load on a stranger's tank, as Ukrainian nationalists do, on a fascist in the years of war, and today on an American. You gentlemen have ruled by profanely exploiting the genocide of your own people, claiming to be objective advocates of historical truth, you have no moral right to be among the compassionate generations and descendants who died in this tragedy. Because of your guilt, there are more than 100,000 homeless children in the country today who will become criminals in a year or two and will spend their young lives in prisons. It's your fault that our veterans are standing with their hands out, because of you, once a rich Soviet Ukraine is listed in 20 dying countries today. Why don't you, gentlemen of the governors, ever tell us about the achievements of Soviet industrialization, the economic power of Soviet Ukraine, the greatest achievements of our people, who were first in space, built thousands of cities, towns, factories, factories, and you destroyed it with one stroke of hands, turning everything into scrap metal. It's clear that all this poison you're producing is to protect yourself, distract and blow people away. But you are mistaken, the people have understood everything, and there will be no mercy for what has been done to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u228	Please, Singer. You don't? Yes. Please. Next Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u229	Vladimir Spiwiachuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear radio listeners! We live in quite specific conditions, and this has still been mentioned in this high rostrum today, when, under the threat of national health, the moral health of the nation, which is stifling today by the Bank, which is deafening today, the so - called political reform, and this moral infirmity of the nation has been vividly manifested in the course of what is called the mayor’s election in Suma. Today, the health of the nation is threatened because action or action is taking place, more specifically, the actions of certain oligarchic structures, certain monopolies that, in the literal sense of the word, for their mercantile interests, forget everything. Here's my statement. "We are the employees of the Library of Technology of the University of Delilah, and we ask you to assist in solving the question of the related development of the Kyivstar ZAT antenna and generators on the roof of the university library. By the way, the ironworks. In view of the deterioration in the health of library staff and readers, we ask that we consider dismantling the antenna and paying us compensation for the loss of health at the expense of the Kyivstar ZAT. What's the matter? And the point is that on the roof of the library there are five transmitter generators and six radiation antennas, and on the demand of the personnel of the library of the sanitary passport, which has been kept secret for a long time, the conclusion of the specialist of the sanitary epidemiology service confirms the fact that the limitly permissible level of electromagnetic radiation at an altitude of 31 meters and above the surface of the ground is exceeded. This is the setting for the three largest reading rooms of the library, 7, 8, 9, where up to 400 readers and 40 library staff work daily. Today, the health of library staff continues to deteriorate, and now it is a matter of restoring health. At the same time, notice how cynical Kyivstar's legal requirements are under high patronage. "We understand and respect your concern about the electromagnetic impact on employees and library visitors, so we think it's necessary to inform you that in 20 district centres and Ukraine in general, mobile communications stations of the GSM standard are being set up, including about 200 on housing." Is that the answer? The answer to legal requirements? And then it's even more cynical. "The relative harmfulness of the station's radiation should be noted that a normal computer or TV emits several times more harmful energy than a mobile station, so we don't think there's any cause for excitement." A representative of Kievstar's famous, under the patronage of Bacuzol in the city of Hmelnitsk. Today, I would like to make a priority request to the Ministry of Health, whose subordinate services have provided the same health passport. And I would ask, Hennady Andriyovich, that this address would be an official request to the Ministry of Health, requiring order in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u230	The word is given to Stephen Stepanovich Bulby. Next. Let's watch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u231	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, members of the opposition factions! In fact, there are no others here now. Dear radio listeners! During the days, a group of Ukrainian national deputies from the Socialist Party of Ukraine visited Sumi, where they met with the electorates of the city, and took part in a session of the district council. The need for this meeting arose in connection with the massive brutal violations of legislation during the election of M. Sumi. But I'm not talking about these violations right now. As a participant in the election meeting, I was impressed by the inaction, the passivity of the police, who were present on the field where the election was held. Organized groups of young people who arrived long before the start of the meeting provoked clashes with voters, tried to rip out old people, spoil them in front of the audience, and spoil other attributes. The more serious crimes were not committed simply because of the interference of the National Socialist MPs. Police officers, including Deputy Chief of the City Police Department, Lieutenant Colonel Saranchuk, did not respond to the actions of public officials. And even to the warnings of the people’s deputies, draw attention to a group of young boys with the aim of preventing them from using hooliganic factors. Right after the meeting, I went to Lieutenant Colonel Saranchuk and he said that it was as if his people, who had been in civilian custody for some time, had detained some of the perps, the most active. However, as later found in the city department, there were neither these offenders nor even records of them or of the arrest records. This was announced to me and Yuri Lucenko by another officer of the Stopak militia. It seemed that the police had been informed of the preparation and purpose of the provocation, knew their coordinators and organizers, and had been involved in these shameful actions. The question is, Whom does our militia serve in this case? And is it capable of coping with more serious crime? In connection with this shameful fact, a group of national deputies prepared an appeal to Smyrnov’s minister of internal affairs, which I am handing over to the chairman to respond by the minister in order for him to assess the actions of his subordinates, in order to inform him of the measures he has taken to prevent such factors in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u232	Thank you. Mihovich Ivan Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u233	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, colleagues and voters! In recent times, the Supreme Council has given great attention to language issues, since they play an invaluable role in the spiritual life of our society. This is also evidenced by parliamentary hearings and parliamentary hearings about the functioning of the Ukrainian language, and recently, once again, I emphasize the ratification of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Languages of National Minorities. But they were not able to dry the ink under this document, as it was again under the fire of former and present opponents. As one of the authors of the Charter Ratification Act, I must express my position. Why and why are attempts to slow it down again? After all, the Charter will apply to those ethnic communities for which 13 languages are native are insufficiently provided. Citizens will be able to exercise their rights more fully in all spheres of social life. Next, the National Language and Minority Charter, developed under the auspices of Europe, open to support, has already been ratified by 17 countries, and of course it is not a threat to the language of the nation’s title. Every Ukrainian citizen must speak and feel the need for it. It's an axiom. Needless to say, without knowledge of a few languages, man cannot fully realize himself and be competitive in the near future. Oneness in school is anachronism. I support the opinion of the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Mr. Kremen, that the perception that there is an obstacle to learning in billingvision is idiocy. As for the Russian language that is most concerned with opponents, it is not rational and farsighted to oppose it because the Russian understands half a billion people, it is one of the official languages of the United Nations, it is historically and will be a means of international communication in Post - Soviet space. So is it nice in our bioethical nation to curb such a powerful source of spirituality? Who's comfortable with that? The experience of Carpathian convinces that the prospect of adoption by young people is beyond the Ukrainian one of the recognized world and the language of the popular regional minority. I would ask for this word not only to remind known axioms of some colleagues, who unfortunately are no longer here to ask a thought - provoking interested public not to hyperbolize or complicate the language issue but to help solve it. Central executives have been called everywhere and in practice to create conditions for our children to have a free and deep grasp of their native and world languages, and Ukraine has become an internal need, acquisition, and incentive for every citizen to realize the essential forces, the interests of life, the aspirations. Ratification of the European Language Charter only helps us in this and language preparation, language culture is one of the prerequisites for our integration into Europe, into the world community. Is it nice and appropriate to interfere? It's reckless and it's shortsighted and it's just rude. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-05-23-m0.u234	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, all in attendance, took the floor. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. The following week, MPs work in the districts. And the next plenary session begins at 10 a.m. on June 3. Good luck. Thank you.
