ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. "To" - 441 There were 441 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian National Deputies Nasalik Igor Stepanovich and Chernevsky Leonid Mihajlovich. Let's welcome them on their birthday. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with paragraph 4 of article 4.2.1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and Orders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 18 November 2003, I am informing you of the departure of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, from the Communist Party. Dear colleagues, that's appropriate. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we decided on the schedule of meetings for November 25-28 and the procedure for dealing with individual issues for this period. You have a schedule for this day. Let's get to work. For reasons, please, Frost, or for the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u2	I'm out of procedure. Alexander Moroz, Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have a counterversive issue today that is likely to raise a heated debate. This is a question of changes to the 2003 Budget Act. And these changes relate to the minimum wage and its size. So in order to avoid any conflict there, any opposition in the room, I would ask you before considering this issue or to announce a recess to gather the leaders of all factions, to agree on the procedure for dealing with this issue. It would be desirable, therefore, with the participation of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, perhaps the Prime Minister, whether to move the matter a little later, and then to the lunch break, to consider whether it is possible on the basis of statements made by the faction leaders to take a break. But anyway, we have to vote consciously for this project, because it's extremely serious, it applies to the fate of virtually all people in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u3	Is there no more procedure? Dear colleagues, perhaps we can offer this option. When we come to that question, to that question, then we exchange thoughts and define ourselves. And now let's just work in this normal mode everyday. Is there no objection? And then let's figure it out. A draft decree on the holding of parliamentary hearings on "The State and the Church" is being announced for consideration. Unification of efforts to restore the spirituality of the nation and to overcome negative social phenomena in society" December 24, 2003. We've already started the discussion. One minute, let's take a look at the question, then. What? From this question, please report by Rešnjak Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please. Turn Rudzkowski's microphone on on this one, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, with all due respect to the initiators of this matter, I would still like to propose to abstain from voting on this issue, because we have seen our positions in the Supreme Council actively dispersed following the adoption of laws. We're just going to stir up Ukrainian, public opinion, or whether the other side is stopping at one or the other position in support of one or the other church, or religion. I propose not to disturb our society by discussing the church issue directly. It is best to assign working groups to draft a bill that will remove all questions. I appeal to the national deputies and to the initiator, please do not insist on taking this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's work it out this way. Just a minute. We have the author of the draft decree, Ivan Mikolaiovich, is there a Rešnjak? Please give me an argument. Then we're going to define from the committee by voting. In doing so, I would like to point out, honourable colleagues, that we have already voted five parliamentary hearings in December. Please, John Mikolaiovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! I am simply asking you to support and make such a pre-war, Christmas gift to our elections, because I agree with my colleague Rudzkowski, that on November 20 we have not really supported the two draft laws that have been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers "For Freedom of Conscience and its Reorganization!!!!!Oh, my God! and the Freedom of Religion and Religious Organizations of the People's Deputy, Lilia Grigorovitch. I've already said that none of them have been supported. And I think it was at the parliamentary hearing that we got closer to agreeing with that. You realize the consequences of adopting unexplained laws on religious matters. So I'm going to suggest that we discuss, invite experts in this matter, invite the spiritual leaders of our country, who are believed by the people who are believed by the electorate, and get closer to solving this problem that we want to put on parliamentary hearings. So please, your honors, make a Christmas present to our voters and support the draft decision to hold these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u7	Yes, thank you. Also Mikhailo Vasilovich Kosov from the committee, the position of the committee, please. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Mikhailo Vasilovich Kosov
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u8	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies! Our committee has considered the proposal of a member of Parliament, Ricnyak, to hold parliamentary hearings on the issue of "The State and the Church in Ukraine." It is my job to prove to the committee that such parliamentary hearings are absolutely necessary and positive. I'd like to point out to those colleagues who are afraid that we're going to politicize this issue, so if you don't politicize yourself, it won't be politicized. I actually think that this is a question that needs to be considered irrespective of any religion. But the point is that the concept of State policy in the field of church and religion is already working. And the State Committee on Religion, and the Center for Scientific Research, Alexander Razumkov. And we cannot leave this room with the adoption of the Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations. Perhaps as we consider this issue in our plenary sessions, we will come up with some kind of concept that will help us to resolve the matter. So, I'm asking you to support the proposal of Deputy Reschnyak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u9	Thank you. With the motive of Lilia Grigorovitch, please. I would like to express myself very briefly. Microphone is Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u10	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine", People's Movement. The noble colleagues, you know, on a live air, unfortunately, the minds and heads of our society will be filled with such unpleasant things about the honor of the Ukrainian Parliament when we, on a direct air based on spirituality, discussed the morals and spirituality of the Ukrainian people. And I think it's up to us. As we demonstrate the understanding and level of these problems, that's what it's going to look like in Ukrainian society. I'm asking you to support this project on Government Day.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u11	Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u12	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the very name of the decree that begins: "The State and the Church. I would suggest here, after all, that our laws speak of secession between the Church and the State, replacing the word "state" with "community," or "sociality and the Church." I also suggest this because it is not a secret that our individual officials try to make their own personal approaches to certain religious religions public. This is especially true of the leadership of the Statecomreligion, which has the appropriate phobias to one religion or another. So in support of the decision itself, I would like to insist that the name be "Sociality and the Church" and that it will be a frank discussion of all aspects of religious activity in society. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u13	National Deputy Boyko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u14	97 constituency. Dear colleagues! With deep knowledge of the matter, as a priest and as a deputy, every day in association with various religions, I want the church to prove to you that there can be no conflict and oppression if there are more representatives from the church, as a spiritual institution, and not us, as people, politicians who tend to oppress and divorce people in different ways. The Church will prove to us that it is able to be consolidated and to build a society as our nation needs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Let's be clear. School, take the vote off. Let's define by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u16	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to emphasize that, of course, we can call this hearing "Sociality and the Church," but, nevertheless, we're going to talk about state institutions. I don't want to combine the state and the church in this situation, but I would like to call on the state institutions, which have not only phobias to some religions, but a certain branch. I mean, love for other religions. I wanted to hear them here, or deny them, or confirm love and not love for certain church organizations, because, in principle, state institutions have only to ensure that the church acts within the framework of existing legislation and not more than to influence and correct activities. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! We exchanged our thoughts, our thoughts, and our warnings. We have every reason to put to the vote a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings "The State and the Church," to unite efforts to restore the spirituality of the nation and to overcome negative social phenomena in society. This is document number 3506. About - 184 The decision is not taken. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in December 2003 on Russian literature in Ukraine as a literary heritage of Eastern Slavs is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the committee's Subcommittee on Science and Education, Peter Petrovich Toloczko Gone? Then Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please. Rodionov? Please, Mikhail Kuzmich Rodionov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u18	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Science and Education is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Government Day of Ukraine in November 2003 entitled "Viking Russian Literature in Ukraine as a Literary Heritage of Eastern Slavs. The draft decision by the Ukrainian National Deputy Toloczko in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine since October 10, 2003, No. 4254. The purpose of the draft regulation is to monitor the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with article 86, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as to determine the status of compliance with Ukrainian legislation regarding the preservation of the spiritual and cultural values of the Ukrainian people. The project provides for the preservation of Russian literature in Ukraine as a literary heritage of Eastern Slavs. A study of Russian literature in Ukraine by students of general educational institutions, Ukrainian language of instruction and teaching of the language of national minorities, not as a foreign language, but as part of the course "Literature Art of Eastern Slavs - Our Common Heritage". The draft decree does not require an increase in expenditure from the State or local budgets. The committee proposes the adoption of a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine entitled "Viking Russian Literature in Ukraine as a Literary Heritage of Eastern Slavs". The draft decision is proposed to be considered in a simplified procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, for reasons, please, Oleg Zarubinski. I see the terrain with motive. I can see it! Just identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u20	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm really motivated. Surely there is nothing wrong with it, but it is good for people to know both Russian literature and Polish and Hungarian, and so forth. I have this rhetorical question, whether the deputies of the Russian State Duma can bring up or bring up this Duma question about studying Ukrainian literature, because Ukrainian literature is also the literature of Eastern Slavs. Is there any movement in this direction that our Russian colleagues are doing? It's a rhetorical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u21	Deputy Kafarsky, then Teren. Kafarski, please. NDP faction. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u22	I do not understand why the question of the educational process is being raised at the meetings of the Supreme Council! It's not even the Ministry of Education and Science, it's the competence of the educational institution. And the correct words were made by Oleg Zarubinski, can only be considered by the Russian prism of the Slavonic culture? I don't think you should ask that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u23	Victor Terrence. Then Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u24	Victor Terrence, Julia Timoshenko's faction. Dear colleagues, the fact is that today in Ukrainian schools the exact number of hours to study Ukrainian is steadily decreasing. Under various circumstances. On the subject of learning computer subjects, and so forth. And the number of hours of Ukrainian is decreasing. This time. The other one. When we talk about a man speaking, a deputy spoke and said that Russian literature should not be considered abroad, and then, excuse me, which one? Because Russia is a foreign country. It's about being close or far apart, but it's still foreign. If she is not taught as a foreigner, what literature should she study? Nonsense. Next. The definition of the Eastern Slavs predicts that the Poles are coming in, and the same Slovaks are coming in, and so on, and Czechs and Bulgarians. Then why is one nation separate? So this is absolutely a question, a. Supreme Council, one more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u25	Thank you. Paul Mokchan, then Igor Yukhnowsky, then Zvaric. And then the Mayor will sum it up. It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u26	National MP Paul Mokchan, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, here comes the question of the old formula: "Not like the enemy, but the good people." The initiative is just a stupid academy called The Touch. And that's why I'm pointing out that this kind of calibre scientist would have to put a very different wording -- "The Ancient Russian literature as a foundation." Instead, he offers Russian. They're just bringing in the political moment and the provocative intentions. This is pure political provocation. A group of deputies from the Committee on Culture and Spirituality recently met with the minister of culture of the Russian Federation and with representatives of the Committee on Culture of the Russian Federation in Fedenka, Tanjuk and myself. And I'll say there's no school in the capital of Russia. Not even the faculty. No Ukrainian newspaper.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u27	Thank you. Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky. Then Roman Zvaric, then the Gmir.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u28	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! Indeed, the question was considered at a committee meeting and was ambiguous, even a rejection, I do not understand why it is so. The point is that really foreign literature in secondary schools can be taught in Russian, which is unacceptable. Thus, in Soviet times there was a so - called school library where the pearls of world literature were translated into Ukrainian for schools. And I think the Ministry of Education should continue to develop the school library now. This question is rather provocative, if we vote in favour, one part would be against it. If we vote "against," the Russians won't be happy. So I think this is a question that needs to be removed from the agenda and not done with unnecessary provocations. And that's why I'm asking the Supreme Council to reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u29	Roman Zvaric, then Sergey Gmir. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u30	Roman Zvaric, "Our Ukraine." The national movement of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the People’s Movement is well aware that this issue is a political one, all the more so the day before the presidential election campaign. So the authors of this project want to maneuver us into a position where they're going to go against it, and then they're going to show that here the National Movement is anti-Russian. So, dear colleagues, you can't wait. The Ukrainian People's Movement yesterday at its meeting, the group decided to support this draft decision, and we're going to ask our colleagues to help make similar decisions in the Russian Federation so that Ukrainian language can also be studied. Thank you. And we, too, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, are formally proposing to withdraw from the title of the decree the word "Eastern Slavs," i.e. simply leave as a "common heritage of the Slavs."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u31	Please, Sergey Gmira.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u32	Thank you. I was very surprised by this Zarubinski trailer: where did it come from? Well, if something's not going on in Russia, we have to do the same thing. I'm just surprised. Dear colleagues, what is it? To study Ukrainian literature without Russian and Russian Russian without Ukrainian, they are so closely linked that it is indeed a single legacy of Eastern Slavs. Well, as long as we've talked about it, let's remember, they say all the time, "There was a ruse in the Soviet Union, but Ukrainian literature was studied in all schools." And we're saying that we're Democrats, and we're going to give up the literature that we have. From the literature of Tolstoy, Pushkin and the literature of Shevchenko in the end, because he wrote his journals in Russian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u33	Mikola Joulinsky, and then from the committee, I'll ask Mikhail Radionova.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u34	Mikola Joulinsky, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't think it's the Supreme Council's competence to deal with this issue, it's the Ministry of Education and Science's competence. And there's a deputy minister present, and I'd like to ask him to give me his word. And secondly, I would like to stress that Russian literature in Ukrainian schools with Russian and Ukrainian education is being studied quite thoroughly. And the foreign literature course provides for the most complete study of Russian literature. This is also the work of our Institute of Literature, where I work. And we're preparing these programs. As a result, there is no discrimination in studying Russian literature in Ukraine, on the contrary, there is a certain priority. And especially in the study of "The Old Ukrainian Literature as a Common Heritage of the Eastern Slavs" she is studying. And for Peter Petrovich Toloczka, a colleague of mine, I would like to say that Peter Mogila was also promoting the idea of learning European culture and literature in the context of Eastern and Western European literature. And we should set such a course, not set a special course for the Eastern Slavs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u35	Thank you. Mikhailo Rodionov, please microphone. The Communist faction. And enough, dear fellows. We've already had our thoughts changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u36	Communist faction, Rodionov. Dear comrades! I mean, it's not about language, it's about studying Russian literature. That's the first one. Second. Before voting, remember the story: Who is responsible for the Slav. And I will bring in the statement of one not very respectable man, but the enemy of the Ukrainian people, nevertheless, in a speech on 21 June 1943, Reichsor Koh: "It is well known that Kiev, and not Moscow, is the mother of the Slav cities." Tell me, please, what's wrong, Professor, academic Toloczko wants to make Kiev the mother of Slav cities? I have an offer to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, the government. Deputy Minister, please, Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u38	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. The last meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission on Cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Federation of Assemblyes of the Russian Federation, about a month ago, showed that studying Russian language and literature in Ukraine did not give rise to any concern. And there are a number of circumstances that call into question the purpose of this question for discussion, and we have heard them, the Ministry insists that the formation of school disciplines is the prerogative of executive authority. Thus, according to the Ministry of Education and Science, it would be premature to consider such a delicate issue as studying Russian literature in Ukraine as a literary heritage of Eastern Slavs. This topic may be a science conference, but it may not be a parliamentary hearing or a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u39	Katusheva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u40	The Communist faction, Katusheva, Crimea. You know, it's just a misunderstanding of all those who are now against this ruling. Because everyone who is against it has just forgotten that they joined the world culture with the help of the Russian language, they have received a higher education in Russian. Let us show respect. You don't have to care about a college boy you've been drinking from for so many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Let's go to the vote. The proposals are sound, the points of view are defined. I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in December 2003, No. 4254. We have two days of government in December. Z-210 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. A draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "Current problems of economic policy" is being announced for consideration. [[February 2003]] Reporter of the Committee on Economic Policy, National Property and Investment Management, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! The economic policy problems in this room for the next few years have not been addressed either in the complex or in the context of the current development problems of Ukraine, which certainly exist. Their existence is at least evidenced by the fact that estimates of economic and social development in Ukraine are now polar. From our statement of leadership that Ukraine is developing at the highest rate in Europe this year, to statistics that show coldly that more than 60 percent of the population in Ukraine today receives income that does not provide minimum living standards. I would like to emphasize that this is official data or official research data. From this point of view, and this position supported by the Economic Policy Committee, it would be useful to hold parliamentary hearings on current economic policy issues in Ukraine, particularly with regard to the social aspects of economic policy, the problems of domestic market activation, financial and credit policies, and wage policies. It seems to us that such a discussion would also contribute to the legislative work of the Supreme Council, and in some ways it could change the situation that every year we create with the approval of the State budget when another government comes to the Supreme Council and claims that there is no money in the state, even though all budgets are based on specificity. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u43	Thank you, Stanislav Ivanovich, you. Dear colleagues, no objection? Then I put to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling No. 4308 on holding parliamentary hearings on "Current problems of economic policy". "For" - 193. The decision is not taken. The factions, please. A draft Ordinance on the Government of Ukraine in February 2004 on the implementation of decisions adopted following the outcome of the Ukrainian Government Day in November 2002 is being announced for consideration. Rapporteur of the National Security and Defence Committee, Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. Please, Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u44	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The three Committees of the Supreme Council on National Security and Defence, Social Policy and Veterans, are proposing to hold a Government Day in February 2004 with the agenda announced by the Head of the Supreme Council. Here's the thing, dear colleagues. Last November, a government day was held to address the problems of reforming the Armed Forces and the social problems of the military. In a year that has passed, virtually nothing has been done by the government to implement the recommendations that were approved on November 28, 2002. The situation with the reform of the Armed Forces is very tense. The government in the draft budget that was presented to us reduced the cost of reforming the Armed Forces last year, reduced much reliance on restocking the Armed Forces with new technology and weapons, and further exacerbated the social problems of the military. These questions were raised from this rostrum. At one of the last meetings, the national MP Carmazin also made such a proposal to discuss a report to the government on these issues. We believe that there is an urgent need to discuss these problems if we really care that Ukraine has a credible defence and that it really cares about those people who are doing their constitutional duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u45	Thank you. There's no warning. Then I put the draft ruling to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Day of Government of Ukraine in February 2004 No. 4320. "To" - 174 The decision is not taken. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in February 2004 is being announced, with the agenda on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on the organization of rest and the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2004. Reporter to the Committee on Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism, Katerina Seminowna Samojlik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u46	Dear colleagues! You know very well without me, there are 150,000 disabled children in Ukraine, orphans, very many children from low-income families. And thanks to you, your activity, your esteemed colleagues, thanks to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have made this problem worse last year, and we have resolved a number of urgent issues -- something that relates to the escorting of orphans to places of health. Thanks to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have increased the cost of healing especially from this category of children. In some ways, our efforts have halted the change in child - care profiles. We've managed to raise additional funds from local budgets with you. Really, this is only a thank you because last year we sharpened and asked these questions at the right time. But we really need to activate this job. and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine unanimously decided to hold the Government's Day on the summation of the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2003 and on the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2004. We think and I want to ask you that we should consider this in the early hours of the day, giving the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine the opportunity to resolve the organizational issue. In fact, we have been left unresolved issues of spending, and they need to be focused really, completely exclude the issues that are still, unfortunately, about replacing the profile of children's health care professionals. The issues related to the Codex earth remained unresolved. Anatoly Warfolomyovich made a proposal, and we made a decision; it remained unresolved, regarding the retention of vulnerable categories of children. So we know how many children with disabilities in Ukraine, the orphans that the State really needs to have, and by doing so, there has to be a sum of money in Ukraine, and there must be an annual recovery period for this vulnerable category of our citizens, young citizens. I know that most have decided to vote against this order of government day. I want to address all the national deputies and those who listen to us. Do not be ashamed if the majority vote against the children of Ukraine against orphans and disabled persons. Please don't let this happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u47	Dear colleagues. Bogdan Hubsky, please. Catherine Seed, please sit down. Bogdan Hubsky, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u48	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like us not to allow such accusations to be baseless in the meetings of the Supreme Council. In particular, the People's Government MP group, which is part of the majority, has decided to vote in favour of this draft decree. And we are blamelessly charged with that. And I think it's unworthy of national MPs to blame each other for nothing. We are for the people of Ukraine, we are for children. And those who say such insinuations are acting, especially not very tolerant of their colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u49	Thank you. Anatoly Rahansky. Then Mikhailo Melniczuk, then Konovaluk, then Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask you all to support this very important question, because we have every opportunity to heal children, but we don't use them. It is because we will take care of the matter that our children will be healthy. Thank you for your attention. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u51	Mikhailo Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u52	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! There is no doubt that everyone is voting for this issue to be answered. But please tell me how much you can listen to the same thing and how much you want to hear about the visa and how much you want to listen to it. For example, after the hearings that were held this year, on this issue, I had an interest in Chernivecki, in the Lviv region, to see how arrangements are being made with the government. I want to make an official statement that no orphans, no peasant children, they're not resting, they're resting the children of those who have money. Those who do not have money do not rest, nor are they given these opportunities. For this reason, I would like to state that the Committee of the Supreme Council should strengthen its monitoring of the implementation of the agreements between Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers. And we must vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u53	Valerius Ilych Konovaluk, faction of "Ukraine" then Gennady Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I also want to join the position expressed by Deputy Hubski and state that the faction of the "Regions of Ukraine" will also support this issue. And, Catherine Seed, it's also our understanding of the problems that really concern society. So thank you, I'd like to ask you not to speak to us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u55	Gennady Samofal. Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u56	Samofalov, faction of "Regions of Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Indeed, the topic raised today is important, we raise it every year, but usually when children are on their way to rest, these problems are solved quickly. I propose today, instead of a parliamentary hearing order, that, once again, I refer to the Government's Day, a specific decision be taken to oblige the Government to develop a rest and recovery mechanism for children and to adopt that decision no later than mid-December. Then this will be effective, and the Government will be able to develop and prepare well for the rest and recovery of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u57	Alexander Stoyan, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u58	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear colleagues! I'm sure everyone will vote in favour. I mean, we have two million children in need of a summer of recovery. This year we've healed at all levels of 600,000. Indeed, a large number of children cannot be healed for what? Because very expensive travel is the first. Secondly, the land fee, thirdly, the delivery of children and much more. So, indeed, these parliamentary hearings will reveal the painful points on which to focus and give direction to the government. I would very much like to ask you not to make any decisions right now, but to make a decision on Government Day, and there on Government Day, parliamentary hearings, and there we will define all the measures. I very much ask everyone to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u59	Thank you. Vernighor, a faction of socialists, and then Samuel, the closing word. Georgi Korniyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u60	Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! So we give a lot of people, and now we show our love and respect for this important question, and I feel for Catherine Seminevny, who twice every year brings up the issue of child health to the Supreme Council. But at the last hearing, I've already said that the more we talk, the greater the tendency to reduce our children's recovery. Moreover, we do not even want to admit that there has been a 10 - fold decline in child health in the country. There is no extra - school, school - based health care facility in the country today. So I propose less deception, because it's a pharisaic thing to sing to everyone we love, that we won't let ourselves vote, we'll spend the day of government. I'm here to give this day an assignment to the Cabinet of Ministers to finally give the Supreme Council a bill on the rehabilitation of children in our country. And I'm asking you to support this kind of question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u61	Thank you. Georgi Korniyovich Kručkov. And we're done. And Samuel, yes, the conclusion of the motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u62	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to announce on the factions the results of the previous vote. I don't want to blame anyone -- let them blame the facts, and who we have to support the care of defense, and who doesn't care. I'm asking you to do it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u63	Thank you. Unfortunately, we can't go back. Let the services prepare. Please, Catherine Seminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just want to thank you for being so unanimous in this position. I didn't say it by accident, believe me, I had a reason for it. But I am grateful for the mass support and I want to say to everyone that the rich will find the opportunity to rest abroad, and to those children who need it, we will now do with you to really improve the recovery of the vulnerable categories of our Ukraine. And I ask everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, when there is no objection, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on the Day of the Government of Ukraine in February 2004 with the agenda: "To sum up the rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2003 and the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to organize rest and heal children in the summer of 2004," number 4333 of the document. Please vote. "For" - 416. Decision taken. A draft ruling on the release of judges is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the Committee on Legal Policy on Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! The Committee considered at its meeting the candidatures of judges who are subject to dismissal and prepared a draft Supreme Council Order in accordance with paragraph 15, articles 15, paragraphs 1, 2, 9 of Part 5, article 126, article 43 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. It is proposed to resign from office: Judge of the Court of Appeal, Ivano-Frankiv Region, Savchuk Aleksija Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal, Odessa District, Rudenko Viktor Petrovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal, Ternopil district, Nikiforov Larissa Ivanovna in connection with the end of the term for which she was elected; Judge of the Court of Appeal, Kharkiv District of Goody Leonidas Yudkoimovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Court of Appeal of Sevastopol, Dmitri Galina Mikolayovna in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Snižan City Court, Donetsk Region, Bondarenko Natal Ivanovna, in connection with the application for a state of health pension that impedes the continuation of duties; Judge Novigrad-Volinsky District Court, Žitomir Region, Lithuania Alexi Terentiyovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Kuybishevsky District Court, Zaporozsky District, Order of Mikol Timothyovich in connection with the filing of the resignation application; Judge Pologovsky District Court, Zaporozsky District, Fesenka Igor Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Supreme District Court, Ivano-Frankiv Region, Gritzuk Peter Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Andracitov City Court, Luhansk Region, Titenka Vasil Kuzmić in connection with the application for resignation; Judges of the Lysican City Court of Luhansk District of Martinenko Ivan Vasilovich, Pulno Viktor Efremovich, in connection with their resignation application; Judge Sum - Cerpakov Olen Ivanovna, District Court Judge, in connection with the filing of an application for exemption at your own request; Judge of the Court of Commerce of Kyiv County, Romasko Valentine Simeonovna, in connection with her achievement of 65 years of age. Judge of the Economic Court of Poltava District - Vasil Lukić in connection with his 65 years; Judge of the Court of Commerce of the Hersonian Region - Potocsk, Valentina Vasilovna, in connection with the application for a state of health, which prevents the continuation of duties; Judges of the Court of Commerce of the Chernowitz region - Irina Dilar. In connection with the application for a state of health pension that impedes the continuation of the duties of Koval Petr Georgievovich in connection with his 65 years of age; Judge of the Commercial Court of Sevastopol - Kolesova Ludmila Mikolayevna in connection with the application for a state of health pension that prevents the continuation of duties; Judge of the Heisinsky District Court of the Vinnitsky District of Voleri Mikhajlovich in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the District Court of Ljubljana, Volin County, Ponomarenko Alexandre Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the Ternopil City Court of Ternopil, Budza Taras Vasilovich, in connection with the application for release at his own request; Judge of the Supreme Court of Kharkiv, Stanislav Romanović, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge Kamyanec-Podilski District Court of Hmelnicke County - Lemni Galina Mikolayovna in connection with the application for resignation. We checked all the statements, there was no pressure on any judge. This is the application of the Supreme Council of Justice of Ukraine. You have a draft decision for the Supreme Council. Therefore, dear colleagues, please support this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the proposal. Please, Sergey Headate. Change the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u68	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you in connection with this question. Are you informed that the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Organization of the Work of the Supreme Council at its meeting on 15 January has decided to address you as Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania with a recommendation not to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine any questions about the dismissal of judges from office for the application signed by Kiwalov, who is illegally head of the Supreme Council of Justice? The committee considered the matter and established that Kiwalov, the lawyer of Kiwalov, the head of the Odessa Law Academy, would discredit the title of a lawyer in principle by usurping his right to be the head of the Supreme Council of Justice and to be. Because he is the national deputy of Ukraine. He is in two positions at the same time, and that is why our parliamentary committee has made such a recommendation to you. I would like you to be aware of what the Supreme Council is doing by accepting the submission of Kiwalov and by releasing judges or by appointing judges. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is a very serious matter! And the fact that Deputy Kiwalov allows it does not mean that the Supreme Council can afford it. Yes, we appoint judges, we get out of the situation, because we need to put together a judicial corps, but I ask you to pay attention to this and stop breaking the law, the Kival Constitution, Deputy Kiwalov! He's in two positions illegally, and I'm still saying he's discrediting the lawyer's profession. A lawyer cannot do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u69	Thank you. Mikhail Dobkin, please. Then Assadchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like to draw your attention to the whole rhetoric that has now been said by my colleague that it makes more sense. Because the head of the committee of the profile, Vasili Vasiljevic, also holds 2 posts and also combines two positions of the national deputy and judge. Therefore, you may find yourself in a faction there and agree that he will give up either the MP's mandate or the high honor of being a judge. And then we'll make a decision about Kiwalov and everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u71	Thank you. Valery Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u72	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich and Vasil Vasilovich, I would like to draw attention to what Sergey Petrovich the Head said, because if it is later found that he really did not have the right to file such a submission, you can imagine what the legal consequences will be in relation to the judges that we have thus appointed or released. And what will be the legal consequences of the judicial decisions that such judges have made. They'll be canceled. And who will be responsible. I still wanted to make this point clear to the Rules Committee if it had already made that decision. And I have a question for you, Vasil Vasilovich. There are, well, conversations that go that many judges are released under pressure, that is, they are deliberately forced to write release applications. In this case, I would like you to confirm from the rostrum that there were no such cases in that list that you read, at least for the stenogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u73	Thank you. I mean, we've worked out on the committee every single candidate. Each of the judges has appropriate statements. All of this became the subject of consideration at the High Council of Justice, and there is no pressure. Moreover, the judges themselves insisted that they be released, who by health, who by age, could not work. And Mr. Dobkin, I would still like to say that I'm not in office in the Supreme Court, I don't take decisions and I don't get wages, and I don't take office, and I don't have any Supreme Court signatures. I'm going to leave the Supreme Court because I think we have to obey the law first.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the release of judges. Please vote. Z-379. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u75	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, although we did not invite the judges here, they can hear us. We wish them good health, using our professional experience for the benefit of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u76	Honorary colleagues, a draft decree to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the creation, establishment of a temporary inquiry commission to examine the situation in connection with the holding in June 2003 of successive elections of the city’s head of the town of Mukachevo Zakarpatska district, and the provision of constitutional rights for citizens during elections for violations by law enforcement authorities of electoral law. From the committee, please, who will report. Please, but we need a report from the committee. Dear colleagues, since we have considered this issue, the Conciliation Council agreed that we would put it to the vote. Therefore, in order to preserve and endure tolerance, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 4069 on the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission for the Study of the Situation in connection with the holding in June 2003 of successive elections of the city head of the town of Mukachev of Zakarpatsk district and the provision of constitutional citizens during elections, violations by the law-enforcement authorities of Ukraine's electoral legislation." Please vote. To -221 The decision is not taken. Please. For reasons, it's all clear. From the motive of who? Shufrich. With your motives, your respectable colleagues, calm down and no one puts the vote to the vote. Please calm down, everyone. It's from Zwaritz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, last time we voted on a similar decision, it was determined by the Regulatory Committee and the Secretariat that 150 votes were sufficient to amend the regulation. So we think, please check it out, we've already had a precedent, we've voted and we've signed an appropriate decision. She's out. In fact, nothing has changed, so we ask that this vote be counted as effective, considering that more than 150 national deputies have voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u78	Roman Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u79	First of all, I would like to explain to Nestor Suffritch the basic things that are enshrined in the Constitution. And it says that the Supreme Council's decision is taken by a majority of its constitutional composition, except for those draft laws that are defined by the Constitution. We can create the next Commission with 150 votes, but once it's formed, it's already the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that requires 226 votes. And, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, this question has already been asked twice during this session, and it should not even be considered right now. I insist that we consider this decision rejected and that we do not return to it again during this session.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u80	Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! In fact, we do have to settle them once and for all, but I will read you the corresponding article of the Constitution that we are guided by. This is article 89. "The Supreme Council of Ukraine for the conduct of investigations into issues of social interest creates the Provisional Commissions of Inquiry, if at least one third of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council voted in favour. So it's clearly and clearly said, "it creates 150 votes, it changes according to the Rules that we've exchanged with you -- 226 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, a draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine’s participation in the United Nations mission in Liberia is under consideration. The rapporteurs are defined as the first Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Jelchenko Vladimir Juriovich, and Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, co-rapporteur, the first Deputy Head of the Committee for National Security and Defence, Andreszuk Boris Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, since we usually take 45 minutes to question, the Rules are proposed: for reporters five minutes and five minutes to question, a co-reporter three and two minutes, respectively, for 20 minutes to discuss. No objections? Yes, please, at Rudzkowski's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, why such a violent injustice: on the one hand, as the Social Democrats need to be done, there is a decision without question to vote, and a decision 4313 on the establishment of an inquiry committee on 13 December 2002, the falsification of ballot papers, not even the inclusion in the chapter in the agenda, as agreed on at the Conciliation Council. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I know they're Bolsheviks, they can do anything, but if you've already agreed on the Conciliation Council, well, that's what you have to do. Give the secretariat an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, let me explain. The point is that the draft decision was included. We've talked about this before, we've voted once. But yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I proposed: let's vote again, so that the Supreme Council can finally decide on the decision. We actually agreed that we would put in the chapter "Questions for inclusion in the agenda." I'm asking the Secretariat to do this on the matter you're talking about. Sergei Gmira, please. We would have begun to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u85	Vladimir Mihajlovich, well, before I think of the issue on which the rapporteur stands on the rostrum, it would be good to consider our troops in Iraq. You forgive me: people die, you don't know why, and we've already become champions of the world by sending troops to other countries, well, like Amur in Roman mythology: with a bare back, and with arrows we wave. Well, you can't do that in the end! Let's go back to the outrageous mistake we made, sending troops to war in Iraq.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, we also discussed this issue on the Conciliation Council. There's an appropriate bill. It's going to be the turn -- we're going to look at it. Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, I wanted to go to the procedure now, not in the sense. The point is that today we've only received a document from our expert commission that makes some warnings about this law, particularly in the part of the funding from the State Budget. But the draft law on approval of the President's decision was not handed down to us. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask you to find out because we are debating and we do not have a document.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u88	Please report. Five minutes. And 5 answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. You are considering a draft Ukrainian law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for Ukraine's participation in the UN mission in Liberia. The UN mission in Liberia was established in accordance with UN Security Council resolution 1497 of August 1, 2003 and 1509 of September 19, 2003. And on the basis of Chapter 7 of the UN Statute for the initial twelve-month period with the aim of supporting the Liberian Transitional Government and contributing to the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement in Liberia. The number of deployed mission personnel is up to 15,000, and today it is the largest peacekeeping operation in the United Nations. 23 nations reported their participation in this mission to this day, according to the United Nations Secretariat. The geography of the declared countries of contributors, contingents to the UN mission in Liberia is one of the widest of active United Nations peacekeeping operations and covers countries, members of the European Union and NATO, the Netherlands, Ireland, as well as China, Jordan, Bangladesh, Morocco and others. Peacekeepers, among others, must provide the United States and Britain. The European Union states are also active in the maintenance of peace in other countries of the West African sub-region, particularly neighbouring countries with Liberia. Yes. A four - thousand - dollar French contingent has been deployed, and in the mission, all regions, except Ukraine, are serving British and German peacekeepers. In view of the considerable experience of our nation’s participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations, the United Nations Secretariat has requested the Government of Ukraine to consider participating in the peacekeeping contingent of our State of Mission in Liberia. The UN expects our State to send a mission to perhaps short terms of the helicopter unit, arguing that the designated unit is considered to be one of the main elements of the United Nations military mission in Liberia, which actually has to ensure its success. The request for contingent deployment was also made by UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan during his meeting with President Kuchma of Ukraine in September in New York. Kofi Annan stressed the exceptional importance of Ukraine’s contribution to the overall success of the mission and the importance of the rapid arrival of the Ukrainian contingent in Liberia. After a comprehensive reprocessing of proposals by the United Nations Secretariat, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine announced its readiness to send a peacekeeping contingent of up to 350 personnel to the mission. In favour of a positive decision on Ukraine’s participation in the UN mission, there are sufficient arguments. In terms of national interests, these should be noted. First. It is of exceptional importance for us to enhance the authority of our country in Africa and to strengthen Ukraine's reputation as an active contractor for peacekeeping operations on this continent. The other one. Creating a climate conducive to the activation of bilateral cooperation with Liberia and with African countries as a whole. And the third. Confirmation by Ukraine, as a UN member country, of its special responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security. Funding for the cost of the country’s participation in the peacekeeping operation will be made at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget and will continue to offset these costs from the United Nations budget. According to the United Nations Secretariat, the amount of compensation to Ukraine for the provision of a peacekeeping contingent, and the air force itself, composed of 14 helicopters, will be about $1.5 million per month. Ukraine's involvement in such a form of peacekeeping operations in UN has been the result of the revitalization of our country's participation in United Nations peacekeeping activities as a whole, the recognition of the high professional level of Ukrainian peacekeepers and the credibility of our state as an important partner of the UN. The implementation of this decision does not require changes and additions to existing legislation. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Questions. Please sign up for the questions. On the board, please explain. Mikhail Kosov, faction of our Ukraine. The ticket will be next to ask a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u91	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reform and Order Party. I have this question, actually, it's already been raised in this room. First. We have never generalized the consequences of our military formations abroad. The other one. Why were the chosen professionals trained, shown on television, sent to Iraq, why not in a combat situation, but in the home environment, there are fatal incidents with our soldiers? Have you done any social psychological research as to the state of our soldiers who are abroad? And the third. Who will provide materially for this stay. It will be on the Ukrainian budget or the United Nations at some point in time to compensate us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kosov. With your permission, I'll leave the second question to Eugene Kirilovich. As for the first one, generalization of the consequences. Of course, these effects are analysed, and they are generalized all the time. Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Defense. There are any materials on this subject: both statistics, and the number of who, where, when participating, and what the results of this. If necessary, I am ready to hand over these materials. With regard to the budget, I have already said that the full cost of the State budget of Ukraine from the UN budget is fully offset by $1.5 million per month. Why would this money be paid, if not immediately, with very little delay? Just as it's been done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u94	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u95	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Yuriovich! Please tell us, how many countries are now in our so-called peacekeeping forces and how many are in the UN. The other one. If the state budget does not provide for the maintenance of the contingent in Liberia, what articles will fund them? It's probably social. And the third. WHAT does it mean to provide fire support from the air by infantry mission? It's our guys on the helicopters who'll be running military operations, probably. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u96	Thank you. Again, on the second and third questions, I'm going to leave these answers with Eugene Kirilovich's permission. BY the number of operations. Today, Ukraine is participating in nine peacekeeping operations under the aegis of or under the mandate of the United Nations. If you approve today's decision on Liberia, it'll be the 10th operation. I would also like to remind you that Ukraine currently holds 10 seats in the world today in peacekeeping operations and first among the countries of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u97	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u98	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I ask you to give the word to Sergey the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u99	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u100	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yuli Block of Timoshenko. Your Honor, you told us that we would be sending a contingent of up to 15,000. While the UN requested Ukraine to adjust the aviation unit to a total of 350. You told us that everything in the budget would be financed for partial compensation. However, only 150 individuals are eligible for compensation. Then tell me, what is the point of Ukraine getting compensation for 150 people, and then up to 15,000 to finance from the State Budget, even if you agree with what the UN asks, 350 people. Why should we finance the maintenance of 200 people from the State Budget? That's the first one. And the second. What is the interest, the national interest of Ukraine in this matter, when should we practically pay from the State Budget? And only a third of the UN funds are being reimbursed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u101	Dear Sergey Petrovich, you may have misheard, or maybe I didn't say it correctly, 15,000 people is the total number of contingents in Liberia in which I have now said 23 countries. It's not Ukraine, it's all of it, all of it. So the United Nations Secretariat will compensate from the United Nations budget for all the costs of helicopters in Ukraine, for the special warehouse, and so on, according to a memorandum that we will sign after this law has been approved by you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u102	Alexander Baranowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u103	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'd like to give John Boki a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u104	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u105	Dear Vladimir Yuriovich, I understand that our government has decided to help Liberia, which is now inhabited by the descendants of former citizens of the United States. And I think the United States might be able to provide perhaps more effective assistance. In Africa, however, there is a country where our peacekeeping assistance would be truly peaceful and humanitarian. As you know, there is such a country in Swaziland. That's where the king declared war on women for wearing pants. Don't you think it would be better if Ukraine sent its contingent there to protect the female population that is the majority there, and everything would be, I think, really noble, actually, humanitarian. I think that's it. I'd understand not only in Swaziland, but the whole world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Boki, I would like to say that we are having a serious discussion about sending a contingent of Ukraine into a peacekeeping operation authorized under the auspices of the United Nations. I understand that there may be a part of the joke about your question. If a UN decision is made in Swaziland, we will think. This is not the case today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u107	Please sit down, Vladimir Yuriovich. Time's up. I ask the Secretary of Defense, Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk. Please, Eugene Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u108	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished Presidium, distinguished national deputies! As you have already been informed on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution No. 1509 of 19 September 2003, the President's decision, please, is planned to prepare and deploy the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent to Liberia as a separate helicopter and peacekeeping personnel. Tasks. Mission and cargo personnel, air patrols, and surveillance. Search and rescue operations and medical evacuations, providing fire support to the infantry units of the mission in case of an attack on them. A separate helicopter team will have three airline chains in its warehouse. One is MI-24 and two is MI-8. Engineering and airport technology units. A total of 350 military personnel, including officers 190, flag 60, and contract personnel 100. By the way, there are 267 military personnel in a separate helicopter in Sierra Leone. Weapons and military equipment, MI-24 helicopters 6 units, MI-8 transport helicopters, 8 units, 48 vehicles, trailers 23. In addition, peacekeeping personnel from 20 officers with assignments. Monitoring the execution of a cease-fire agreement by enemy parties. Investigating violations of the cease - fire and crime treaty. Control of the congregation and the destruction of weapons of military technology and ammunition. Cooperation with governmental and non-state organizations, self-government bodies, leaders and commanders of hostile groups to direct the process of rebuilding the state. The contingent will be assembled exclusively on a voluntary basis. A written agreement will be obtained from each member of the military and their families. Subordination of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent. The Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent will quickly be subordinated to the commander of the United Nations Mission in Liberia, and the overall leadership of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent will be carried out by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Determining the task of commanding the mission forces in accordance with the General Staff of the Armed Forces. The expenses discussed by the deputy minister of foreign affairs, Yelchenko, are well - known. The military and medical facilities of the Ukrainian Armed Forces will carry out a medical examination of peacekeepers with the capacity to operate in tropical and wet climates and provide for the necessary vaccination complex. By the way, it's going to take into account all the experience of serving our 20th single helicopter team in Sierra Leone. And he's got to say, pretty decent, this experience. In particular, I've spoken to the squad commander today, and there's no malaria sufferer today. Provision is made for the provision of a peacekeeping contingent with material and technical equipment, with the provision of a uniform, including a hot climate kit and a deadline for carrying out tasks. The rotation of the individual composition is scheduled to take place once every six months every six months. The withdrawal of a contingent, a peacekeeping contingent, will be carried out in accordance with the Act on Ukraine's participation in peacekeeping operations. Social guarantees and social standards set out in Ukrainian laws will be distributed to members of the Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent. From a military point of view, participation in a peacekeeping mission will allow for the accumulation of experience in the use of military aviation in peacekeeping missions, the processing of operational compatibility with other countries' troops. If a positive decision is taken by the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Defence will ensure its implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, defense minister Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk's report has been completed. Please sign up for a question, if any. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Masenko, National Deputy, Communist faction. Prepare Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u110	Eugene Kirilovich, this gives me confidence that you are telling all this, that it will be so good for our soldiers who will go on a peacekeeping mission. I remember at this rostrum you assured me that the battalion that was headed for Iraq’s neighboring Kuwait would never take part in any action in Iraq’s territory. And it turns out that battalion has been doing this in Iraq for some time now. So what faith in those words did you just say? And if you were to call the exact figure, how many people have died in Iraq, and how many soldiers have died in all of these peacekeeping missions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u111	I am very grateful to you too, Mr. Marchenk, and to the national MPs in general, who are so keen on the issue of the safety of our military personnel. Perhaps even though our military is involved in peacekeeping operations, it will draw serious attention in society to the problems that today are in the Armed Forces. The first is the battalion that was sent to Kuwait. Indeed, the battalion was headed to Kuwait to serve exclusively in Kuwait. After the decision of the Supreme Council to send our contingent to Iraq, part of the battalion was used, more loyally, for the Fifth Brigade. With regard to the dead and wounded in Iraq, we lost three military personnel and injured ten others. In particular, I would like to point out that in the Armed Forces, not on the fronts, not in peacekeeping operations, 146 military personnel were killed in their homes last year. A little less this year, but in the last five years since 1999, 735 military personnel have died at home, by the way, 218 of them have committed suicide. This is a difficult, serious problem of the Armed Forces, which needs to be addressed in all peace, the reasons for this very much, I'm willing to give additional answers and have appropriate conversations if there is a desire for MPs or a faction on this issue. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u112	Rephat Chubarov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u113	Dear Eugene Kirilovich! The accumulation of military experience is really good, but I have a question for you not only as the Minister of Defense, but as a member of the National Security and Defence Council. Please tell me, in the absence of such a decision, what negative consequences will we have for Ukraine as a whole? If they are these negative effects, please name them? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u114	I don't think there's going to be any negative consequences, it's just going to be the losses that we're going to suffer. And those are the losses. First of all, it is not just an experience for the military, but a resource that is financially provided by the United Nations for enormous practice. For example, the pilot now flies 10-20 hours in Ukraine, while in the same Sierra Leone 80-90-100 hours. So these are 1-2 class fliers. You can't tell, he'll be back at home for 10-20 hours because he doesn't have enough fuel to fund. On the other hand, our mission has already said, 1.5 million dollars a month, about 300,000 of them, to provide for all the social needs of military personnel and maintenance, i.e. it's practically over 1 million 200,000 who go exclusively to the Armed Forces. To date, the United Nations Security Council Secretariat has paid Ukraine $194 million in peacekeeping operations. This year alone, Ukraine received $54 million from the UN Secretariat from peacekeeping operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u115	Julia Timoshenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u116	Please give the word to Sergey the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u117	Sergey Headate, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u118	Dear Mr. Minister! I want to make it clear to you now that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs didn't give me an accurate answer. As far as I know, the UN is going to reimburse us for 150 contingents only in the amount of $1.5 million. I'm interested, are we sending 150 people or more? If more, what's the number anyway? And this figure, how much will it cost to have a government budget and a figure that is more than 150 that will be paid from the United Nations Foundation?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been saying, I've called this number, and I'm confirming it once again. The Ukrainian peacekeeping contingent in Liberia is planned to be 350 people, I read this: 190 officers, 60 flags and 100 military personnel on contract. The full cost of maintaining this contingent and redistributing it is borne by the UN. Ukraine does not have any expense in this regard. The UN has always been correct and always on schedule to compensate Ukraine for all the costs it has incurred in peacekeeping missions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u120	Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich. Time's up. Eugene Kirilovich, here's a question that was asked before the prime minister, he said you would answer. Is there fire support from the air involved in the fighting? Yeah? From Volodymyr Leschenko asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! There are fairly precise rules laid down by the UN Statute, and in each case, when the mandate of the UN mission is given for the execution of the relevant powers, it is very clear that there is a very strict formula for the use of weapons. It is very limited and very limited. The language is given in this case because the UN mission sent to Liberia at the request of the Liberian government and, above all, at the request of the warring or hostile parties. That's the first one. And the second. Helicopters are designed, as is the case everywhere and always, only for convoy escorts, to be used to cover up UN mission personnel. UN mission units when they are being attacked. Not only is any independent fighting not only envisaged, but it is also prohibited for peacekeeping contingents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u122	Thank you, Eugene Kirilovich. Thank you. The First Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Boris Pavlovich Andresyuk, is invited to report. Boris Pavlovich is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u123	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The previous experience of dealing with such issues in the Supreme Council shows that each direction of the Ukrainian military contingent to a given country to carry out peacekeeping missions has generated numerous debates in the session room around these issues, and this is natural, since it is the life and health of our fellow country, the authority of our country among the world community to ensure peace and tranquillity at one point or another of the hot spots of our planet. In the absence of a political analysis of the decision, I refer your attention, your honourable colleagues, to its legal aspects, that is, whether this is in line with the decision of the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation that regulates these issues. The submission of the draft law by the President of Ukraine comes from article 85, paragraph 23, of the Constitution of Ukraine, concerning the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of this decision, as well as the participation of Ukraine in peacekeeping operations. The procedure for the decision to send a peacekeeping contingent to Liberia is also in line with articles 6 and 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the order of deployment of troops of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to other States. It is Parliament’s prerogative to approve this decision, not forgetting that Ukraine, as one of the cofounders of the UN, cannot stand outside of its statutes on international security issues. I would like not to stop now from asking the questions that the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of Defense have given a pretty solid answer. I would like to say to Parliament that there was an extremely sharp discussion of this issue at the committee meeting. All questions, including the last death of our peacekeeper in Iraq, were considered. You know that the initiative of the members of our committee has been to both the Secretary of Defense and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to ensure that both members of our committee and members of Parliament are able to go to Iraq and see how our peacekeepers carry out their mission. Earlier, the Secretary of Defense had supported the committee’s proposal. So in spite of the sharp questions, but the reasoned responses of the respondents, it was decided by the committee members: five members of the pro committee, four members against. A positive decision has been made. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u124	Please, Your Honor, we agreed on three minutes. If you have any, please sign in. Vasil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wanted to clarify. The Committee has raised the issue of funding for this contingent, which is to date. The fact that the UN will compensate for these costs is clear that there is no doubt about it. How is the army ready today and the unit is ready to go there. You know how serious this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u126	We have heard a rather thorough report from the General Staff on this issue. Since we have three months to prepare our contingent at the Ministry of Defence, it will not be tomorrow, and it will take three months to prepare. All these issues, as the Ministry of Defence and General Staff have assured us, will be taken into account, and the contingent will be fully prepared for a peacekeeping mission with full funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u127	Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u128	Dear Boris Petrovich, please tell me, do you not think that you are immoral against what is happening to our contingent in Iraq to send more troops to Liberia? And the second question. During the vote to send troops to Iraq, your entire faction of Social Democrats voted in favour. [[United]] The leader of the faction "Our Ukraine" voted against, and your control channels tell the opposite. Is that how it's gonna be with the sending of troops to Liberia?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. My dear colleague, the issue of morality or immorality is always considered in general not only on factions but also on the committee. This is the political decision of each faction. And I think you've also considered on your faction this question and your right as you're going to vote, that's the right. But in accordance with part 23 of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, this is the prerogative of Parliament. We have, we have to make a positive or negative decision, there is no other body in the state that can make that decision. In commenting on your question about immorality, I would like to say that there is an appropriate UN Security Council resolution, which is a mission today under the auspices of the UN. And Ukraine is one of the founders of the United Nations. And the Charter of the United Nations obliges all countries of the United Nations to provide support for the peacemaking efforts adopted under the auspices of the United Nations. So, if you'll excuse me, this is strictly a matter of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u130	Anatoly Frost, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u131	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Frost, the Communist faction, the Zaporez region. Dear Boris Pavlovich, it is very good that you remind us that Ukraine is a cofounder of the United Nations. But here's what I'd like to ask you. Eugene Kirilovich gave us a figure on how many of our soldiers died in Iraq. I would like to hear a figure from you, and how many of our peacekeepers are now in the tenth country, let's say, in nine countries, have died in the course of their duties as our soldiers, how many have died? That's one thing. The other one. You think it's beautiful when, let's say, even the same United States of America and other countries that are sending their contingent. They don't brag about it, they don't show up, look how good we are, how beautiful we are, and so on. And we're all over the world as far as we go, what we've achieved is that it's already the tenth country. I don't think that's appropriate. And one last question. How will our nation deal with people who do die in the course of their duties. I'll tell you, remember, in Afghanistan, there was criticism that the Soviet authorities and the Communist Party had put their soldiers in there and died. And today, one Ukrainian citizen, one in one battle died, and our state, I've already addressed the President, and I can't ensure that his name is Hero, because it's assigned to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u132	Thank you. I fully support you in those positions regarding the protection of the rights and social guarantees of military personnel and their families. And I just want to read to you, 30 seconds, what laws protect peacekeepers today. First of all, according to article 11 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Order of Dedication of Military Forces to Other States" the following measures are envisaged: The military and civilian personnel of the military forces who have been sent to other states have become disabled in carrying out military service duties use the benefits provided for in the Ukrainian War Veterans Status Act to guarantee their social protection for the disabled. According to article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees of their social protection, the validity of this law also extends to members of their families. I would like to say that according to article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Participation of Ukraine in Peacekeeping Operations, it is stated that the service of years and the employment of Ukrainian citizens in carrying out peacekeeping and peacekeeping duties is calculated from one month in three months, i.e. as in combat operations. That is, we see that today our military and family members are protected by law. But, really, there are accidents today, numbers today -- asked Eugene Kirilovich for words, he's going to give you an exact figure right now, for today, how many people have died.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u133	Thank you. Time's up. Boris Pavlovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. We agreed to it in 20 minutes. And then Eugene Kirilovich will eventually summarize and answer the questions you are interested in, and what will be the suggestions that will be made during the presentations. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, when I think about the Ukrainian Army and the Ukrainian Armed Forces, I always mention the story of a Russian plane with Israeli citizens on board, and I mention the immortal expression of our President Leonid Kuchma, who shortly after this story, analyzing this situation, said, "I am no longer happy that this has happened." I think that when we analyze the situation with regard to the deployment of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to the hot spots of Liberia, we should remember and think about what the Ukrainian Armed Forces are, where they are, who is our Commander in Chief and who is in charge of these Armed Forces. The Victorian Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine" requires Parliament to consider immediately the information of the minister of defense, Eugene Marchuk, who would tell us what is going on in Iraq today with our peacekeepers. Why is it that people die there for reasons of noncombat loss? Why does the press report that there is already a group of our peacekeepers involved in drugs, other activities, and so forth? Who will provide discipline there and be responsible for keeping them alive? The minister must inform us how today the social welfare issue of those families whose boys died in Iraq is resolved. Therefore, it is fundamentally important for us to have complete and clear information about what is going on in Iraq. I remember the story when only our unit was heading and when everyone in Lviv laughed and watched that military technique, praised by Ukraine, was being pulled because it couldn't travel through the territory of Lviv and it was supposed to carry out a peacekeeping mission in Iraq. So in order to make any other decision regarding the deployment of our peacekeeping contingent, we need to deal with the situation with Iraq. When it comes to Liberia, a few words, the question arises. What are the national and strategic interests of Ukraine in Liberia? Since 1989, there has been a struggle between two clans in Liberia, so our army will train, find a way out of the situation when two. The clans are fighting, I think she should do it. So in the 2004 democratic elections, we will solve the problem of change of power and the army will not interfere. So I'm informing everyone that the decision of Victor Yushchenk's faction "Our Ukraine" not to approve the President's decision to send peacekeeping forces to Liberia. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u135	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, prepare for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u136	The Party of Protectors of the Country, the Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Honorable National Deputies, reputable Ukrainian people. You're once again being offered gun meat for someone to get better reception in New York or some other city. Dear friends! I'd like to ask you a few questions, including Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, and I'd like to ask you, the draft law says, "Approval of the President's decision to deploy a peacekeeping contingent for participation." And where is this decision, you didn't give it to us, is there no President's decision, unfortunately? And no one answered that question today, how many questions were asked. Next. I'd like to ask if Eugene Kirilovich knows that today three U.S. Navy ships have taken an expected position in the open ocean off the coast of West Africa. And Bush can't figure out whether to come in or not. See the message of the Swiss newspaper." Zeiger." See what the world press says next. "President Taylor, bloodthirsty gangster number one, may also hold back the word and leave the country. For the first time, there was hope for peace in a war - torn country. Since the early 1980s, there has been almost constant civil war in Liberia.” I emphasize that there's a civil war going on there now. This is the Austrian newspaper Standart. So that I do not get offended by any of the dictators, I quote her. And to the end. Dear National Deputies! According to article 17 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s second defence relies on and prepares for the Ukrainian Armed Forces. What are you doing, officials of honor? What do you do, madame, who only knows how to get rid of diapers? I'm talking to Yanukovich. Have you ever laid down one helicopter? At least put one in the budget for a new purchase. And you're sending six units to combat MI-24, eight MI-8, and that's 14 helicopters you're sending to Liberia today, 14 helicopters will be in danger, and you're not financing any of them, to replenish the Armed Forces. And for this budget, you're bringing in the disabled miners from the Donetsk region. Think about what you're doing. Keep going. I'm going to ask you, "Who's going to pay for the disabled and the pensions, and provide all the extras as war participants?".. And to the end. Please consider first in Europe, sending all contingents to the poorest country in Europe - Ukraine. Why the first? Because she's the poorest. What's poor? - Because he's stupid. What's so stupid? - Because he's poor. But it's not the Ukrainian people, it's his leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u137	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Yuri Solomatin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u138	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Yavorowski district, Viktor Yushchenka block, "Our Ukraine". Dear Parliamentarians! Excuse me. I think there's a lot of people in this room to back me up. Allow me to welcome the beautiful Georgian people with the action they took. That's the first one. And let me say that I find it shameful that the president of our state and the head of SND has rushed so unpredictablely with his primitive statement. Now, let's talk about the problem that we're discussing today. I feel like we're taking part in some horrible and primitive theater of absurdity. It repeats what happened about 20 to 25 years ago when a poor, pathetic, undemocratic, totalitarian country extended its kind of hand-help to the world by sending young boys -- the flower of every nation -- to places where there is no and no hint of national interests. In this case, we have exactly the same thing. On the one hand, in Ukraine today, we have a unique army that is no longer in the world, an army that everyone should be afraid of, because we're shooting in the same direction and we're going to get into a residence in Barovara. Our minister is on the same side then, and we get on a plane where the citizens of Israel are flying. Such an army is truly feared. We have to be citizens today, like the MPs who were chosen by the people, to think about the situation where these guys are in, our tongues are long-smelling hot, where to breathe absolutely nothing. We suddenly found Liberia today. In general, I think it would be worth sending a liberal party of ours to Liberia led by Scherban. I think they'd settle for it very quickly. As a result, Eugene Kirilovich, the time will pass. I really wish we weren't ashamed to look each other in the eye after about a year. What are our interests? Which countries are next to us, tell us, but we don't know anything. From the pitiful budget, where we are today cutting 32 bracelets out of the minimum wage for every poor Ukrainian. I repeat, for every poor Ukrainian, the government takes 32 bracelets out of his pocket again today, and we are going to spend the money that the United Nations can pay us back. And we owe them money. That's why they're going to take the Ukrainian experience, and they're going to have a mutual relationship. Because I'm sure we don't have the right to vote, we've already made one mistake with Iraq, from my point of view. There are people here who support this. As a result, I am convinced that none of the deputies will vote for this. It's a primitive stupid decision that we're drawn to by the free leadership of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u139	Yuri Solomatin refers his right to speak to Peter Simonck. Instead of the School, the Turkish will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, the issue is indeed of great importance because it concerns foreign policy issues and the assessment of the real internal situation of Ukraine, especially the state of our army. I would like to state immediately that the Communist faction will not vote in favour of sending our so-called peacekeeping contingent to Liberia. We are of the opinion that it is necessary to consider the matter immediately today - the draft law on the withdrawal of our contingent from Iraq at number 4329 has been introduced by the faction of the Communists. And we believe that, before further considering any of the issues of participation in peacekeeping actions, our country must first withdraw its contingent from Iraq, thus correcting the colossal mistake that has been made. I am addressing my colleagues and I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that you have already left your fingerprints on the buttons when you voted in favour of sending a contingent of Ukrainian troops to Iraq. And these fingerprints, they're already covered in blood, because our soldiers are killed, they're wounded. Even more so, I am convinced that they were killed there, not by a gunshot. Because the State of Ukraine is thus trying to evade the responsibility for payment of an adequate amount of money to those killed in Iraq. Because the State of Ukraine is wise to state that $200,000 for each person killed on a plane hit by the Black Sea and for the person killed in Iraq between $50,000 and $100,000 is going to pay, it is all the more a disgrace to Ukraine for such a government. But I would like to ask a few and other questions, if the Minister today advocates such a serious problem of sending to Liberia and the direction that he will receive a monthly and a half million dollars from the State of Ukraine or the Ministry of Defence, I have the right to ask the question first of all, and why the Minister of Defence is not accountable for what he is doing to ensure the country's adequate defence, without worrying about the same budget, the technical equipment, the satisfaction, the content, the military towns, and today he says that we will act within NATO and NATO to protect the security of our country. At the same time, the people of Ukraine did not give Marcus the right to declare that the year 2007-2008 was Ukraine's accession to NATO. I believe that these are criminal acts and we must cut down such acts or programmes on the part of the Government. Next. It seems to me that we should also think seriously about the fact that if the army and pilots are not funded, there is no possibility of having hours to ensure the country's security, then some 14 or 15 helicopters will not protect the security of Ukraine. Therefore, I propose not to vote in favour, to reconsider the military's funding and what the Minister personally does and only then to address all the remaining issues. And one last comment. The task is written, and I'm surprised why the minister fakes the task. The task says: " providing fire support from the air with an infantry unit of mission and a dot," and the minister adds, ". In the event of an attack on them." There's no formula here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u141	Thank you. Alexander Turkin's faction of Julia Timoshenko's block, to prepare Rudzikowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! It seems to me that the Minister of Defense should not ask about Liberia's geographical location, but should ask why there is no fighting army in Ukraine, why military forces are breaking up in Ukraine, why does Ukraine steal military property, why does Ukraine not address the social issues of our officers, why our soldiers and officers are demoralized? These are the questions Mr. Marchuk needs to be asked. As for the financing of this peacekeeping operation, we had a lot of questions about how many of our soldiers are going to be counted? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you how much a Ukrainian soldier's life costs, how much the tears of mothers will cost, who will meet those who will not return alive from Liberia or from another country where Kuchma and the government want to send our citizens. With regard to budgetary expenses, honourable national deputies, it is important to count the cost of the budget for financing disability, the illness of our military personnel, which they will receive in Africa. You know, in fact, every other person who comes back from African countries has malaria and other diseases that are very difficult to treat under the conditions of our state, our established medical system. And besides, your honors, I want to remind you that, really, not so long ago, we've been sending our peacekeeping contingent to Iraq, and we haven't answered the question why we did it, why did we take responsibility for the lives of our citizens. And after the blood spilled in Iraq, after we see that no one is going to hold any peaceful elections there, after we see the promiselessness and disgrace of Iraq's operation, our faction proposes that we stop at all the questions of sending soldiers abroad before the decision to return our citizens from a country called Iraq. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u143	Mikola Rudkovski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, we are discussing again the issue of sending our contingent. We haven't figured out what we've decided before. I believe that the Minister of Defense of Marchuk is in the Supreme Council that we cannot trust any of his words. You remember how he convinced us that if we sent a contingent to Kuwait, he would only be there to carry out peacekeeping missions. Now, with the help of members of the majority and some of the unwitting opposition, we see that Ukraine is engaged in a war in Iraq. And if we ask that question, we need to think today, not about Liberia, not about something else, but about thinking, and to think about the defence minister, not about how to send a contingent, but about how to protect Ukraine today, because Ukraine is in the same condition as Turkey. And if there is an explosion or something in Ukraine, the minister of defense, government, and deputies who voted in favour of Ukraine’s participation in the Iraq war should be responsible. And I think there is no more important question to date than the vote in the Supreme Council on the withdrawal of the Ukrainian contingent. I support the consideration of the law made by the Communists on this issue. And I propose Order 4268 on hearing the Minister of Defense from the situation in Iraq to vote today. We need to know why our soldiers are dying. I'm ashamed of myself at all. Italy killed 19 people, the day of mourning, and the whole country is paying attention to it. We've lost three men. The Secretary of Defense never met with any father, never met with any father! Where's that?Oh, my God! I don't think we should ask questions and vote in the Supreme Council, because we're making our guys who are supposed to protect the state, we're making them smoke meat. It's really a shame! Socialists will not vote in favour of sending our contingent to Liberia and insist on one question: the vote on withdrawing our contingent from Iraq and the confirmation of Ukraine by the law of the non-block state as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u145	Igor Ostrash, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to ask you again for statistics. Unfortunately, during the Ukrainian peacekeeping operation, we received 19 casualties, 60 injuries, and, according to the latest report, 46 soldiers returned from the African continent with malaria. So I would like to draw you to the experience of developed nations. After 18 Marines died at the airport in Mogadishu in 1993, the United States decided that peacekeepers would only be sent to hot spots after the fire had stopped and their safety assured. This is what developed and rich countries do. So an old Ukrainian saying goes, "Why poor? - Because he's stupid. Why is he stupid? - Because he's poor." Clearly, we need to get out of what we need, first of all, to sum up what's going on in Iraq. What's more, there's an idea to send a delegation of Parliament to Iraq to figure out what's going on in our contingent. Perhaps it is easier for our military to send most of them in the form of peacekeeping contingents rather than to carry out order in the Armed Forces. And by the way, it's "Blazko." You remember that after the decision to embalm the Black Sea fleet was made, it was then that our ships sailed under the banners of Liberia, perhaps with an interesting, secret purpose. But I would now like to go back to the fact that we should make decisions only by remembering that really 19 mothers were expecting their sons from peacekeeping operations, 60 were injured, and very many people who had actually returned with serious illnesses. So I think that today we practically have no moral right to support this decision until there is really a cease-fire in Liberia until there is a real threat to our helicopters in Liberia. Because we need to understand very well that helicopters are people who are practically the most affected, the most unprotected against enemy fire. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u147	Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u148	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, I will only answer the questions that have been asked. Ukraine lost 27 military personnel in peacekeeping operations. 14 battle losses, others not combat losses. The other one. What's going on in Iraq, I mean in our contingent? I'm willing to go to an open, closed meeting at any meeting in detail, but better in factions or on the committee to inform in detail what's going on in our contingent in Iraq. But right now I'm making an offer to listen to the closed session, if possible, of the Supreme Council on budgetary financing for the next year of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I answer the question of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, what the minister is doing. We've asked for a budget request, and it's detailed, and it's in the Ministry of Finance, and it's taken into account, based on the capacity of the state to do the most. We reported this budgetary request to the Committee on State Defence and Security, as well as to the Committee on Budgets. And I'm ready for all the national MPs in detail for what, what, what? But you have to answer the question. I realized that not everyone had found that 735 soldiers had died at home in the last five years, not on the fronts, not on peacekeeping missions, and 218 of them had committed suicide. This too needs to be answered. 47,000 flatless and 614 million bracelets that were not received by military personnel who are now serving for property they have not received from the battalion to the division in one form of the field today. Next. Presidential decision. He was said to be gone. I don't know, you have it in the package, and there's a justification for it. Next. Reimbursement of what? The death of a United Nations military officer compensates the United States for $105,000. To the extent that this is adequate, no one will ever be able to say. And the last. Because combat helicopters are supposed to be lost. Here it is necessary for national deputies to know that these helicopters are undergoing full factory repairs, and almost all of their resources are being restored at the expense of the United Nations Security Council Secretariat again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! We have spoken, even for 20 minutes we are more concerned with this matter, taking into account its importance. I'll put it to a vote. May I have your attention, please? I am voting on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine’s participation in the United Nations Mission in Liberia. This is document number 4364. Please vote. "To" - 217, The decision is not taken. The factions. Please, by the factions. Dear National Deputies! I'll make an announcement. "Our Ukraine" - 0, "Ukraine" - 62, Communist factions - 0, Industrial Party, Entrepreneurs, Labour Ukraine - 35, Social Democratic Party - [[united]] Dear colleagues! As you scream, I won't read. Let's be tolerant. You have spoken in a vote. .36, People's Government - 21, Ukrainian Socialist Party - 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Democratic Initiatives - 16, Agrarian Party - 15, People's Choice - 14, NDP - 10, non-fractional - 8. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues! We're having a break now, and all the more so. Well, I'm asking you to listen. So it worked out that two factions -- the Socialist Party and the faction of the Communist Party -- were asking for a break to agree on the process of considering changes to the 2003 budget. In view of these circumstances, I announce a break of up to 12 hours for 50 minutes so that we can reconcile the issues. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions, as well as the head of the committee of Har Vasile and Dustenk Peter, as well as the heads of the MPs and factions, to meet in the office of the Head. Break till 12 o'clock for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take our seats and continue our session. I suggest you take advantage of the faction's lack of leadership, and let's get to work. I inform you that the Conciliation Council is continuing. Issues related to the Law on Changes to the 2003 State Budget on Minimum Wages are being considered. The Conciliation Council has decided that as long as the negotiations and consultations continue, so that we don't lose time and act as we have declared a break of only 12 hours 50 minutes, we have continued to consider the following bills. When the Chiefs of the Conciliation Board clarify the situation, they will come, and we will immediately begin to consider the issue of changes to the State Budget. So let's keep going. Shufrich, please, from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have a request. Considering that there are no factions and that there is no confusion among the factions themselves, the request for a council to vote on the ratification section. It's less understood. And faction leaders will then calmly advise and work on agreeing on the next issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, we have a daily order approved. Let's go get him. And now we're on our way to the chapter. The question that we have approached is put off because it is considered by the Conciliation Council. We have come to the point of making decisions on the issues under discussion. That's what we're going to do. There is a question, registration number 3,508, of a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding government regulation of the circulation of precious metals and precious stones. We need to make decisions on the outcome of the first reading, and we considered it on November 21, 2003. Budjigan Philip Philipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u153	Dear National Deputies! Bill 3,508 on amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the national regulation of the circulation of precious metals was considered on November 21st this year. Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Megonovich, from the Committee on Economic Policy, reported from the Cabinet of Ministers. The idea of the bill is to amend three laws of Ukraine in particular: "On State regulation of production, production and use of precious metals", "On Implementation" and "On National Bank". As regards the settlement of functions in the market for precious metals between the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank. It is clear that his deputies were not involved in the discussion. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a basis for the first reading. Adam Ivanovich, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u154	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The decision of the committee to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the State Settlement of the Circle of Precious Metals and Precious Stones, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Registration number 3508. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, concentrate! For - 235
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u156	235. Thank you, the decision is made. We accepted it in the first reading. What does the committee offer? Is there a denial? There's a denial. So the bill was adopted as the basis for the first reading. Registration No. 4025 of the Law amending the Law on Electricity for the Protection of Energy Objects is followed. We, honourable colleagues, need to take a decision on the outcome of the first reading of this bill, which we had with you on November 21st this year. Oleg Grigorovich Panasovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u157	Dear People's Deputies! On the previous Friday, the first Deputy of the Mintopenergo Ukraine, Anatoli Arefijević, as rapporteur and I, as co-rapporteur, argued and justified the feasibility and need to amend the Energy Act to protect hydroelectric installations belonging to the strategic class. The draft law of Ukraine provides for the legislative definition of the prohibition zone of hydroelectric installations, the controlled area of hydroelectric installations and particularly important facilities of energy. In the view of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the legislative definition of the terms will contribute to the reliable protection of energy objects located in those territories. For information, these particularly important sites are to be protected in peacetime, by specialized, paramilitary security, within the structure of the energy industries on whose balance these facilities are located. The territory of these facilities has a special pass regime. During military time, these facilities are transferred to the specialized military units of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The Act should apply not only to hydroelectric installations, hydroelectric plants, but also to hydroelectric dams, reservoirs, thermal power stations with a negotiable closed water supply system. The importance of the facilities, the justification for the need for the adoption of the legislation, its objectives, the state of the legal and regulatory framework in this area give us the right to adopt the law in the first reading and in general, since the socio-economic and other consequences may only be due to its non-admission. The Act has been legalized and approved in its deliberations on the topical committee on TC and nuclear security. We recommend that it be accepted as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we have to vote: adopt a bill on the basis of registration number 4025, draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity. [[on the Protection of Energy Objects]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u159	Please vote. For -361
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u160	For 361, the bill was adopted as a basis. Dear colleagues, if there is no objection, there is an offer. Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u161	Matvienkov, 55th District, Mariupol. The distinguished rapporteur has no objection to the bill. But here's a question for you. The law needed, the law needed, indeed, to deal with the verification mechanism. But there is absolutely no mechanism of responsibility. Maybe we should put it on second reading to work out some structure and mechanism of responsibility for the violations provided for in this law? There is not even a comma as to who will answer, how and for what.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u162	Yes, Oleg Grigorovitch, please give us a brief answer and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u163	To be honest, I do not see the need to consider it in both the second and any other reading. In principle, facilities exist, a prohibited area of hydroelectric installations is defined, establishing a distance between facilities and the first 500 metres. There is a control zone that is designed, limited to signs and there are particularly important objects that determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u164	Oleg Grigorovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, let's do this. On Friday we discussed it, and everyone who wanted to speak spoke. There are no questions now. Matvienkov agreed with the argument. So I suggest, let's support the committee's decision to adopt this bill as a whole. But before we vote, 30 seconds of school and Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u165	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I hope that this bill will solve the question with the hydraulics of Danestra's GAES. Because at the moment, there is another state’s border object on the node itself. And when this object is protected, its area is defined and the full responsibility for its preservation is vested in Ukraine, and for the moment Ukrainian inspectors cannot cross the so - called Moldovan border that passes through the Ukrainian hydrowaves. This poses a threat not only to Ukraine but also to Moldova itself in the event of an unexpected event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u166	Thank you. I mean, you're campaigning to support the bill. Thank you. Please, Karmazin, and we will determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u167	The Party of Protectors of the Country, the Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, it is unfortunate that when we discussed this bill, there were not many deputies present in the hall. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are further introducing a new Article 19 in which we provide for the establishment of an owner or authorized authority, especially an access regime, where we exclude both the law enforcement authorities and the deputies, and all of them. So from a legal point of view, the bill is not working. Second, we're saying, no zone, no area, no area, not 500 meters. Where does the earth code provide for this, and how is this regulated? What are you pushing us to now when we say, "Who's to be taken from, and where do we write that no one can build anything there? So let's predict that in a second reading, there's a second-reading mechanism. So many questions, Adam Ivanovich. And if there's a denial, you can't put it on the second reading. I ask you not to put in place a law in general right now, because it is imperfect, I emphasize.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u168	Yes, please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u169	These are the areas you're talking about, 500 meters, they're taken away, they're functioning, businesses are paying taxes for them. I'm telling you, it's only for the energy law to legitimize terms. I reported to you once, explained this situation, and now I explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u170	Yes, I would like to vote in favour of the adoption of this bill as a whole. Please vote. To -269. Decision taken. Question under consideration: Registration number 3465, 3465-1 -- Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Labour Protection Act. [[on the work of persons with disabilities]] We need to take a decision with you on the outcome of the first reading of these bills on November 21st. Who's from the committee? I remember who came from the committee. As long as the committee is preparing, we're with you, your honorary colleagues, as we've been looking at this bill, we've been with the Cabinet of Ministers, the bill of the People's Deputy of Zvaric. We agreed, since he was ill at the time, that when we approach the matter, we will give him the opportunity to reason. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u171	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The point is, there's nothing to argue about, because the bill I've introduced is virtually no different than the bill that acts as an alternative bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I can even say that the formulation, i.e. the legal and technical formulation of the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is more correct and more correct, so Adam Ivanovich, I would ask that we now proceed with such a procedure, because I do not have the opportunity at this stage to withdraw my bill, I would ask you to exercise your right as chairman and put to the vote a bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the first place, and if it takes the appropriate number of votes in the first reading mode, I as the author of the main bill will not deny that it has already been voted on as a whole. I mean, basically this way you'll give me the procedural right to withdraw your bill. Because I'm just supporting a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u172	Thank you. Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! Then we will proceed with your permission as proposed by the drafter of the bill, National MP Zvaric. I'm the first to vote on Bill 3465-1p on Labour Protection. Please vote. Governmental. For -362, Thank you. Decision taken. Let's use it here. The decision, the proposals and the profile committee, and one of the authors of Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric's bill, and we will support this bill as a whole. No objections? Please vote. For -385 The law was passed in general. Thank you. There is a question of registration number 4552, a draft Decision on Information to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the state of preparation for work during the fall-winter period 2003-2004 of thermal and thermal facilities, the provision of energy resources and the condition of the formation of heat tariffs. We need to make a decision on the outcome of this bill on November 18th, that is, when we heard this issue on Government Day. Please, Valery Pavlovich Desert Tenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered this issue several times in the Parliament of Ukraine, in the Supreme Council. And I think that this is the kind of determination that needs to be made. Last time the vote took place, one question arose, the proposal of Mikola Rudzkowski, which looks like this. To complete the decision by adding: The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the NCRE of Ukraine setting tariffs for the transport of hydrocarbons through an internal pipeline, resulting from the cost of carrying out these services by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. I repeat, internal industrial pipelines. So there are companies where the pipelines are on the balance of these industrial enterprises. We've studied the subject further, consulted the Committee on Housing and Utilities, it's not about competence, it's been consulted with the Antimonopoly Committee. But after consulting with the business leaders who are in the hall today and with the national deputies, it in principle does not define anything. So I propose to vote on the proposals of Mikola Rudzkowski. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u174	What is the point of this proposal? Remind the People's Deputies again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u175	I'm reminding you again that the Ukrainian Energy Regulatory Commission, and it's in the Cabinet of Ministers Order, that's exactly what these actions were put on it, but it wasn't put on the inside of an industrial enterprise. And the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to carry it out or not to do it. It consists of complementing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decision to impose tariffs on the NCRE of Ukraine for the transport of internal industrial pipelines, resulting from the cost of carrying out these services by NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. It's always been that way. Although the companies were on the balance sheet, not the Naftogaz of Ukraine, but the tariffs were the same. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I remind you that we have voted once before. There were proposals by the Communist faction, Cibenko made. Please, they're not considered by the committee. So please, insist. Zybenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u177	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Valery Pavlovich, let's give you complete information. Because there was still a proposal for national deputies who disagreed with the proposal for an evaluation of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm like the deputy I offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u178	I say goodbye right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u179	He suggested that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine be unsatisfactory, and he would like to say that the discussion contained two problems. The first is the state of human well-being. On December 1st. Ukraine’s vast territory is not on fire today. And that's how we decided to rush the Cabinet of Ministers a little bit. I am no longer talking about the problem of tariffs that are now being driven to such an altitude where half of the Ukrainian population is incapable of paying such tariffs. That's why my colleague Leszczenko and I insist that we put forward our proposal for a vote on the unsatisfactory evaluation of the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u180	Okay, thank you. You remember my first talk when we were looking at it, and I was speaking as a reporter. Yes, indeed, there are so many businesses in Ukraine today, there is no heat in the cities, including I was in eight regions of our Ukraine. And I can confirm that. Indeed, there were such suggestions for both Cybenka and Lechchenka. Well, if you remember what I said in my speech, I immediately said that, unfortunately, there is nothing we can do about it and not say, including the Cabinet of Ministers. And the job is going to be satisfying or unsatisfactory -- it's just a decision. I said that the Cabinet of Ministers should be directly responsible for the state of preparation for the winter. And today it needs to be considered more widely. It's also fuel, coal, gas supply and a lot of other issues, and the attitude in that. That's why we're making a decision committee, after all, I'm confirming that it really was, that it wasn't enough work. We're not going to pass the offer, we're going to vote for our proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, the authors of the initiative to recognize the work of the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue as unsatisfactory, insist that it be put to the vote. That's why I'm putting her to the vote. So I'm betting on the vote on who's "in favour" of recognizing the work of the Cabinet of Ministers as unsatisfactory, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. For - 196. The decision is not taken. Therefore, there is a proposal to support the decision in the form proposed by the profiling committee. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u182	With Rudzkowski in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u183	Taking into account Rudzkowski’s offer. Please vote. For -336. Decision taken. Thank you. It's a 2405-11 registration issue. Draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. We need to make a decision on the outcome of the first reading that took place on November 21st. A member of the Committee on Economic Policy and the Management of National Households, Property, and Investment, Philip Philipovich Budzigan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u184	Dear National Deputies! Bill 2405-11 "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized" was discussed and discussed on 21 November of this year in the session hall. The drafters of the bill, the Empty Tank in charge, did not speak. I spoke from the Committee on Economic Policy and stressed that on June 10, the Committee decided to support the project in its first reading. This is a matter of exclusion from the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, the Cremencucci plant of iron concrete. Five national deputies participated in the discussion of the project. None of them supported the bill. The Special Monitoring Commission does not support this bill. The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship supports the position of the Economic Committee on the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. That's all I've told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u185	Thank you. You heard the committee's proposal, the opinion. But first, we're going to be asking questions about the vote in support of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukraine Act on Lists of Objects.".. I'd like to make up my mind. Dear colleagues! Please take a vote. I'll explain again what we're going to vote for. Please, Semenyuk. It's a wasteland. Semenyuk, then Desert Tank. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u186	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, at a meeting of the Special Monitoring Commission, we studied this issue in detail. And what I'm saying is that at this point we've sent the materials to the Attorney General's Office. In fact, the company is in a fictitiously bankrupt. If we remove it from the list of objects that are not subject to privatization today, it will mean that all the property that has been transferred to another enterprise today and that the state has only a name and debt, there will be a legal affair that should actually deal with the issue in court. So I ask you, in view of the decision of the Special Monitoring Commission, that document is not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u187	Please, Desertwater. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u188	Dear National Deputies! I wasn't going to go out to this rostrum, and the question comes up really hard. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Most Coordination Council, in the presence of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, we discussed the issue of whether or not to give consent. As a human being, I was approached several times by the labour force for a period of virtually a year, and I can only say that the Cremencucci plant of iron concrete blades, thanks to the Ministry of Transport, was completely destroyed. Why? The changed manager, and since the second half of 2000, no factory orders have been made. I picked up the help yesterday, and this morning, I brought it from this factory, if it did it in the first, actually, half a year last year for $32 million. Production, that's $1 million this year. And there were only 40 people left at the factory. I mean, the factory doesn't work. So, I propose to support exactly the proposal that our committee has proposed and to vote in favour of withdrawing it from the list of enterprises that are not subject to privatization, we will save the enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u189	Have a seat, please. A nigger with motive and a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take into account the situation that when the Economic Policy Committee made a decision, he did not know that the conduct of the investigation had been violated and that the criminal case had been violated in connection with the enterprise. We have known this since the decision was made. I think that in this situation where an enterprise is artificially bankrupt, and then at no cost, we can't support the committee's decision. We have to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u191	Thank you. Vote. Who is in favour of supporting the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the List of Property Rights Objects, which are not subject to privatization, please identify yourself. For -135. The decision is not taken. The bill is rejected. Show me the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" is 62, the regions of Ukraine are 44, the communists are 0. Industrialists' Party, Entrepreneurs' Party and Labour Ukraine - 1, SDPU - 0, People's Government - 0, Socialists - 0, Block Timoshenko - 0, Deminitive - 0, Agrarian Party - 11, People's Choice - 2, NDP - 13, non-fractional 2. The question is closed, that is, the bill is not supported. Please, Winsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The examples Valérie Pavlovich just reported the situation from the Supreme Council’s rostrum speak very clearly. We are dealing with an absolute criminal scheme for the destruction of a state-owned enterprise with its subsequent privatisation. I would consider it necessary, taking into account this situation and the possible consequences of continuing to do so, to instruct the Attorney General's Office to investigate the situation on this enterprise and the committee to report on the consequences here in the Supreme Council. Well, you can't do that. Clearly, there are roads, billions of them are invested in these roads, and it turns out that the business that works on these roads is falling apart. Where's the logic? We see an absolutely criminal phenomenon in front of us today. I think we need the Supreme Council. Adam Ivanovich, make such an assignment, and this must be investigated. And the Semenyuk Commissions also have to do this work in parallel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u193	Please. I know the commission is doing this. If you have any suggestions to the Attorney General's Office, please, the MP's request, we'll back him up tomorrow, and that's all we need now, and that's the question to be considered. There is a question of the draft Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities. [[Registration number 3553]] We need to make a decision on the outcome of the first reading of the question that we held on November 21st. Please, National Deputy Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u194	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the bill has been drafted to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Promotion of Agricultural Development until 2004. This law, in its second article, states that agriculture’s priorities include promoting the development of a network of agricultural advisory services. In your time, you will recall that several draft laws were introduced to the Supreme Council on agricultural advisory activities. And they weren't accepted because they were a few. Therefore, after consulting, the authors passed one bill. The essence of the bill is that it lays down the fundamentals of the legal framework for agricultural advisory activities in Ukraine and regulates relations in this area. Agricultural advisory activities are defined as a combination of actions and measures aimed at meeting the needs of agricultural producers and the rural population in increasing the level of knowledge and improving the practical skills of farming, improving the welfare and social development of rural areas. That's why we're making this proposal. We now consider the introduction of agricultural advisers and advisory services to be conducive to enhancing the knowledge of the agricultural population and agricultural producers in the field of modern methods and new technologies for agricultural activities. The committee, despite some comments, proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading and to work on it in preparation for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u195	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we discussed this bill on Friday, asking you to drop your hands and identify yourself. For the adoption of the draft Law on Agricultural Advisory Activities, please identify yourself. To 294. The bill was adopted in the first reading. Here's the question, draft Law 3107-D, draft Decree approving the State Innovation Program for the Fashion Industry by 2010. We need to make a decision on the results of the first reading on November 21. Ustenko Alexander Andriyovich. Who? Kafarski, please, on the rostrum. Gurenko, please for your reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u196	Adam Ivanovich, I want to use my right to say this. This morning, our presidential majority did not support the issue of discussing at least at the parliamentary hearing the issue of economic policy. That's understandable. Because those who run the economy now don't want to have an open discussion. Now we have voted in favour of a completely empty case, a costly matter. Just think, the honourable gentlemen of most, last year, have reported this year, I emphasize, for 14 million tons of bread all over Ukraine. What kind of counseling activity? Thus, 10 million tons more was collected before the famine. That's all the consulting work you've got. I'm just paying attention to this vote and calling on all MPs to be responsible for when they press buttons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u197	Please, Baranowski from the procedure. And we're listening to another question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u198	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Adam Ivanovich, according to the Rules, any MP may make a statement on a matter of some sort. And when there's a question, I'd ask you to speak with tolerance. Because you always asked the right questions when you were sitting in the Hall after breaking the Rules, and they were removed. And that caused respect for all the deputies. Now you're in the middle of a session, and you're in the middle of something. And what Gurenko said, he's 100 percent right, he's clearly creating jobs for those who can't find themselves anywhere anymore. And at the expense of the budget. And the MPs should have known about it, but you didn't give anyone the opportunity to say anything about it. I'd like to take that into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u199	Thank you. The comments are accepted, but I would like to take into account: being in Parliament's meetings. We had to come on Friday, we had the opportunity to discuss, express, and each voiced his own vision of the problem. Absolutely all the questions you were talking about came up on Friday. I mean, no one was depriving anyone of the opportunity. We're listening to this question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u200	Deputies! In March, the People's Deputy Flood passed the Act on Fashion Innovation. The committee considered this issue and concluded to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill. What does this program mean? The point is that today's social development brings new socio-cultural elements into our lives. There are areas of industry that need training, training, certification. And for that reason, the law is being prepared. It refers to the revival and further development of national culture in the area of the training of innovation professionals in the fashion industry. I want to add one more detail here. We have a market today in the fashion industry of France, Russia of the Baltic States. Today, it's like they're coming from France and they're preparing cosmetologists and so on in three months, they're taking money, they're taking it and they're leaving. We have to take this area under our control. Please support the committee and the Flood.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We also discussed the matter actively on Friday, please. Please use the motive of Nikolainko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u202	Nikolainka, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Vladimir Ivanovich Kafarsky, secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, our colleague, has placed the emphasis quite precisely, has put the problem in place. I'd like to say that to the Ukrainian people's deputies? At first glance, this seems to be such a ridiculous question, some sort of a frivolous one, but it's a huge cost, it's a huge resource. And so, in discussing this in detail, our committee decided to vote in favour. And I would ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support, give the government a mandate to bring all these moments to normalize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u203	Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, the committee’s decision was made by the committee secretary. I don't think it's necessary for the committee head to duplicate it. Let's, if there's motive, then there's motive. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u204	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. Well, you know, I want to tell the people's deputies that this industry has very little to do with fashion. It only touches the hair. I'd like you all to understand that what it says is, as always, don't believe your eyes. It only touches model hairstyles, it touches some kind of competition, which, I don't know, is it, or is it not in Ukraine for the power of some imported hairdressers here. So just so you know, with fashion, this has nothing to do with, unfortunately, nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u205	Please, Solomon. Dear colleagues, please don’t raise your hands, we discussed the matter, including Carmazin discussed it on Friday. Why repeat? Please, Solomon and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u206	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The bill is set in a series of people who seem to care about the development of our society. And I would agree that young people would need this if we had a disadvantaged population that we had the attention of the state and our society. I want to finally say this. Let us give more attention to matters that are really urgent to our disadvantaged people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u207	Yes, please, Carmazine. Weaving from the Cabinet of Ministers. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u208	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Sir, distinguished national MPs. The Supreme Council of Ukraine should approve state-wide programmes that have a bearing on Ukraine's economic and social development. The proposed program does not involve only the national program, nor does it involve the government program. It can be a program of a separate ministry. If you read it, you'll see what's there: do an appraisal, develop proposals and make changes, retest, do a test. So it's a set of measures, and it's a set of measures, let's say, not the best set of measures that we're going to propose today to sanctify with you. I ask you to vote against and no longer pollute the legislative field with such legislation, with the permission to say, acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u209	First Deputy Minister of Education, Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u210	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In Ukraine, there is now a training of 69 specialists who combine thousands of specialties and specializations. And until recently, there has been no problem in adopting a special law on development from these directions. In this regard, the Ministry of Education and Science does not support the proposed project, since the proposed project establishes a separate legislative regulation for one of the activities of domestic service enterprises, which cannot be considered at the legislative level. The question of whether it's a baccalaureate or a specialist or a master is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u211	Thank you. Rudzkowski. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! One bill a year suggested our colleague, so I would say, a singing rector who thinks he, as a man experienced in this field, sees the need to adopt this law. We have to consider him, professionally, he's made a better college in Ukraine, better than students or not, and what he's learning is the largest number of students who get higher education. He confirmed it. I think we should count and support this law with its professional qualities. It doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u213	Dear colleagues, the draft decree on the approval of the State Innovation Programme for the Fashion Industry by 2010 is being put to the vote. Please vote. For - 181. Project not accepted. It's off-limits. Dear colleagues, we are now moving on to the section on ratification. There is registration number 0156, the draft law on the adoption of the statute of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Minister of Agrarian Politics Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u214	Dear National Deputies! Allow me, at the request of the President of Ukraine, to present to you the draft law on the adoption of the Food and Agriculture Statute of the United Nations, which is designed for the purpose of Ukraine's accession to this authoritative international organization. The main activities of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations are as follows. First of all, this is an increase in the level of nutrition and standards of people's lives; provision, increased productivity of production and distribution of all food and agricultural products. Improving the living conditions of the population, contributing to economic growth, and ensuring mankind’s freedom from hunger. The purpose of the organization is to meet the needs of today's and future generations by supporting such a development that does not exacerbate the environment, which is particularly important to us, is technically and socially acceptable and economically effective. The practical assistance of this organization is provided through numerous technical assistance projects. For example. In 2002-2003, FAO's overall budget was $652 million. A total of $367 million was allocated to local projects, half of which were related to disaster management. It is also actively involved in FAO projects with trust funds and United Nations development programmes. FAO collects, analyzes, translates and disseminates information related to the consumption of forest food, a fisherman. The organization provides information to government officials, farmers, scientific, non-governmental organizations to make important decisions on agricultural policy, planning, investment, marketing, research and learning. It has created a system of statistical information that is today the most powerful source of information on agriculture in the world. FAO is one of the influential international organizations that was established in 1945 and now has 183 member countries and the European Union as an associate member. And the FAO next session begins its work on November 29th this year. The Director General of FAO, Mr. Diuff, was recently in Ukraine and visited, and we had specific negotiations with him. The membership of Ukraine in FAO will enable Ukraine to integrate into the global information network, to better engage and improve investment climate and effectively, in our view, to advance our production into global agricultural markets, to launch joint scientific and manufacturing projects and to make a comprehensive adaptation to Ukraine's standards, which is also important for agricultural food products in the world markets. Ladies and gentlemen, we ask you to support and adopt an important law for Ukraine on the adoption of the Charter of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u215	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. I can see the questions. That's why I'm asking you to sign up. Please explain. Three minutes. Bhubba, follow him - Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u216	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine There's already been talk about how to adopt this law of trouble for us, and not to accept it is trouble. How do you determine the willingness to compete at the level of the World Trade Organization of our producers? Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u217	The fact is that the FAO Statute, the FAO requirements, the commitment of the participating States, they are very different from the principles and rules, and the commitments of the World Trade Organization. We have no such obligation here. But it's important to us today as we build Ukraine with an open economy and it's increasingly open. First of all, there's an information network system in FAO that gives us quite a lot of results, in our view, and based on the practice of other participating countries. The other thing is that the next FAO direction, and we've already had some negotiations, and for 5 million, we've agreed on investment for Ukraine in technical assistance projects for countries, just out of the way. And of course, participation and communication at the international level will certainly enable us to move our products more efficiently to the external markets. So we don't see any direct danger or even indirect and unfavourable sides because they don't actually exist. This is a UN organization, Ukraine is a member of this organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u218	And one of the founders.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u219	And the founders.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u220	Please, Klukkowski, follow him, Yeshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u221	Yuri Klukkowski, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine". I'm asking you to give my word to my colleague Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u222	Please, the cook's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u223	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear reporter! This law is a little bit of a weird title for "On the Adoption of the Statute." And so on and so forth. He was introduced by the President of Ukraine and the President has instructed you to present his position at this session. You know, I think you know article 9 of the Constitution, where it's about that international treaties, and that's exactly what an international treaty can be, can become part of national legislation in order to give consent on the part of that bill, on the part of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So that's the question: don't you think the president must have made a mistake when he just called the bill. Rather, it would be called the law "Acquainting with the obligation of the statute." And so on, it went, it went.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u224	Thank you. No, I don't think the President made a mistake in this case. We were preparing a draft decree and a letter from the President, and we were studying the matter with the Ministry of Justice, studying the matter with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our embassy in Italy. And our consultations with the Director-General, Mr. Diluff, also state that this is a traditional procedure where parliaments are ratified in this way. So the law also tells international institutions that this is how it is practiced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u225	The point is, Sergey Mikolaiovich, that Roman Mikhailovich wants it to be even better than you ask. Please, Eshchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u226	Fucking Communist faction. Sergey Mikolaiovich, I have a question that, we know, what is the state of affairs in agriculture today, the collapse and so on. And the question is, what will give a simple producer and the whole agricultural sector an introduction to this organization of our countries?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u227	We have 63,000 legal people today. In agriculture, these are already 12,000 colgos, the racons. What's more, we've changed two thirds of the leaders, the experts who are now well aware that without the information system of the international, even the world, it's hard to talk about price policy, price regulation, and the balance of domestic production. We have learned today what to do more does not mean that it is better. We can't have deficits, let's just keep manufacturing artificial, let's do manufacturing. Because everything can come back to 300 bucks a ton of wheat. So import-export balance, export-import and others, and the level of production, diversification of production and consultation with FAO are just supposed to work for the benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u228	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I think it's so clear and clear. I'm just going to the profile committee, if they don't insist, and I'm going to the speaker, I'm going to join Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, if he doesn't insist. Is he insisting? Then we follow procedure. Please, from the Calinchuk Committee, Vasil Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u229	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee has considered very carefully at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on the Adoption of the Food and Agriculture Organization, the United Nations, FAO, and taking into account that the acquisition of membership in this organization provides Ukraine with additional opportunities to address a range of socio-economic, technological, organisational, legal and financial problems of agriculture and other areas of the APC with a view to providing food security, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it accept the project as a basis and as a whole. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukraine's accession to FAO will not only correspond to the general political priorities of our State, such as the accession to the WTO, but also to the European Union in the future, and will help to address the current problems of the agri-industry complex. FAO’s specific tasks are to study the state of world food supply and the environment of the world’s most important food and agricultural products. FAO is also involved in collecting, studying and disseminating information on food, food and agriculture, including forestry and fisheries. It also includes the development of recommendations for member countries on various issues of agricultural development and assistance in their implementation, the provision of technical assistance both at the expense of their own resources and at the expense of other international organizations or specialized agencies of the United Nations in joint programmes and actions. FAO is the main United Nations centre for the development of global agricultural statistics. Agricultural yearbooks, agricultural products, agricultural products, monthly agricultural and statistics are regularly produced. In addition, FAO conducts a number of studies, producing many conjunctural studies. For individual types of goods, he publishes catalogues, books, collections, and so on. Thus, it has been noted that membership in this organization will contribute to improving Ukraine's co-operation with FAO member countries, access to the information network and information provision of the agro-industry complex, taking into account world experience. We ask that the bill be supported, both in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u230	Thank you, Vasil Antonovich. Have a seat, please. The performance was performed by Karmazin, a national deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u231	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, this is the case when the President of Ukraine was not mistaken in his letter, when he clearly wrote that. “admission”, called the law, “On the Adoption of the Statute of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations”. The Statute was adopted on October 16, 1945. In 1945! I'm asking the government today, the President, who's been President and Prime Minister for nine years now with the President's mandate: what prevented this agreement from being signed earlier? I've calculated that we have to pay about 200,000 dollars a year to pay our membership fees. But that's 25,000 times less than they want to steal from this budget that they're aspiring to steal from all the media. It offers to steal 5 billion, not much. That's 25,000 times less than we have to pay here. That's the first one. Second, Your Honor, Ukraine. There are founders in 1945: Haiti, Guatemala, Honduras, Liberia, well, other countries. [[Australia, Belgium, etc.]] And Ukraine later Honduras, later Tahiti, later everyone. So I think we need to make a decision now, both in the first and second readings. And tell our government officials that this is going to be spent on government spending. Make sure that they are used in a transparent way. Make it a favor to the Ukrainian peasant, because you can buy this money as much as you can for these poor peasants. That is why this law must be adopted. The amount of the premium is not large. 183 member countries are coming in, and we, as a rogue state, have put ourselves out of it all the time. Why? We looked at Russia because Russia only applied this year. This whole time that we're looking at somebody's tail, it's really bad. It is better to look at those countries that have founded this organization and where agriculture is on a level. Thank you for your attention! My offer is in two readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, before the vote on the motives of Zvaric and Matthew Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u233	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I was just about to ask a question that came to me, that is, when I learned some information, but I would like to draw the attention of the entire session room to this situation right now. First of all, I insist that the bill should be constitutional. I mean, giving consent is not mandatory, because I don't know what kind of statute it is. This is the first time. That's different. As we have just heard, joining this international agreement will require additional budgetary resources not foreseen in the current State budget. In accordance with article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, laws that require changes in the current legislation of Ukraine, i.e. they must be accompanying instruments to this international treaty. We don't have that kind of accompanying document. I mean, where do you get the money? Let's even say it's 10 grand. In order to meet these statutory requirements, the organization provides. So my offer, Adam Ivanovich. I think that we can take it up on the first reading and assign it to the Personal Committee to complete it so that we can finally make a decision at the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u234	Yes, please, Matthew, Kabmen, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u235	The Communist faction. Well, I understand, of course, Minister of Agriculture Ryzuk Sergey Nikolaevich, when he complains that there have been several thousand colchuses and cohorts before, and now 63,000 operators. Indeed, it became difficult to manage, and there was no need to break the colossus. You tell me, please, here. Will the adoption of this food-farming charter still improve the management of these 63,000 agricultural operators? That's the first one. Second. This will allow you to return to the agro-industry management system? Third. And question three. This would avoid such cases of a shamefully low crop harvest, which allowed the management of the agro-industry complex in 2003, when we had twice as much harvest as the one that had been before the famine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u236	Yes, please, Hinzburg, Rybub, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u237	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I've got it. I'd like to ask a question to the minister, so it's an opportunity now. Dear Sergey Mikolayovich! Maybe as you're about to speak, please tell me if this food statute that we're discussing right now gives us some reason to talk about it. That the produce coming into Ukraine will be better, because today we have some bills in our package that say that we are getting unquality meat in Ukraine. Does this statute speak of? Are there requirements for a food base? Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u238	Please, Sergey Mikolayovich, we're being determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u239	Thank you very much to the distinguished national deputies for such an interesting discussion. First. Of course it was necessary, and I wanted to do it earlier, and I agree with National Deputy Carmazin, to join FAO. But we were actually waiting for the UN to decide on contributions, because earlier we had to contribute a little more than one million dollars a year. Today and last year, I was personally in negotiations, and now we have solved the issue in such a small number, and if we enter this year, we will not be paying any contributions this year. That's the first one. Regarding the form of acceptance. In this way, if the law is passed, it means that we agree. Gives consent to such a statute and means and enters into. Moreover, in the first reading, it is not only because 29. November. On December 10, this year, the FAO session will begin to consider the adoption of Ukraine. We will now report on your assignment. And if we don't get into November-December right now, we'll have another session in two years. So we'll be waiting for then, God forbid, two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-11-25-m0.u240	Dear colleagues, please mobilize. I am asking to vote in favour of the Law of Ukraine as a whole on the adoption of the Charter of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization. Vote. For - 394 Thank you. So many have spoken - so friendlyly voted. We voted in general. 394 votes. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, right before we announce the break, we have here a draft law on the ratification of the Kabmin-Government Agreement on Technical Cooperation. He has no objection. Let's vote for this project as a whole. Please vote. For -388 Thank you. We voted a total of 388 votes. A break of 16 hours is announced.
