ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:05:54]] Registered -433 There are 433 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues, today's great feast of the Holy Virgin's. I sincerely welcome you to this festival, and I hope that we will be working in harmony and at peace today. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Oleg Grigorovich. Let us greet him, wish him good health and success in the work. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In accordance with articles 4.2.2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules and the minutes of the meeting of the Democratic Initiative Group of Democratic Initiatives of 30 September 2003, I inform you that the people's deputies of Ukraine, Dobkin Mikhail and Reznik Igori, have also been elected. Dear colleagues! You have a schedule, I'd like to inform you. Please note, we will now have to vote on the matter. The Conciliation Council of Deputies and Groups decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of decisions on two issues. First. The change to the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is referred to as the next Thursday, namely, the 23rd October plenary session to consider budget issues. Dedicate, if necessary, all day long. And the second question. A situation involving the construction of a Russian hydrotechnical facility in the Kerchny Strait And it is also proposed that the decision be made to put into the order of the day and to take into account the situation that took place in Artemis. No objections? I'm voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council. Turn around. I'm in a separate position, I'm not in a position. I am voting on the proposal of the Conciliation Council to include us in the agenda and to make a decision on the issue of making changes to the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:09:19]] For 331 Decision taken. I'll put it to a vote. With motive? Simonenko, please. By factions, please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u2	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! It seems to me that the question that is proposed today to be included in the agenda for the events on Tuzla Island in the Kerchen Strait should be primarily addressed by the executive branch of power. And yesterday at the Conciliation Council, I insisted that the President give answers about what is going on in this part of Ukraine and what will be the consequences. So I would suggest, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you insist that today be included in the agenda, that you only listen to information from representatives of those or other authorities who were asked to study the situation that went to Moscow, to meet with certain representatives of the power structures, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u3	Dear colleagues. All right, we'll figure it out. Dear colleagues, let's vote because now we're just going to have a discussion. Please. I put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda and to consider essentially the situation that consists of the construction of the Russian hydrotechnological building in the Kerchny Strait. Please vote. [[10:11:20]] For 345. Decision taken. Thank you. For the faction, please. Dear colleagues, calmly, in factions. Today's holiday, I remind you again, is a great holiday. We work calmly, tolerantly. We'll be looking at it for a minute. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda and to consider essentially the extraordinary situation in the city of Artem and Artem district of Donetsk. Please vote. [[10:12:10]] For 394 Decision taken. Matvienka, out of procedure. Then there's Anatoly Frost from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u4	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have a question for you. I understand that we voted for Tuzla, you say, and making the right decisions that we will today make the right decision on this issue and those projects that are under consideration. And the second. I ask our faction to invite, not the other three, but the first ones to consider the matter. And using Victor Fedorovich's presence, I would also ask him to identify himself from the government and also to be present, as the question is common. Finally. I want to tell Petra Mikolaiovich Simone that the issue of territorial integrity is a matter of the Supreme Council. That is why we do not have the right to hide from this problem today, for it is the same crime that some do not respond inadequately to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, today the Prime Minister of Ukraine is present on our agenda. Let's welcome the Prime Minister who respects the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] We voted in favour of putting the matter into the agenda and dealing with it essentially. And if there's the Supreme Council's will, we'll make the right decision. Today, there are people present who are currently in Kiev who are not on duty or are not absent for other important reasons. Dear colleagues, I have a request. Anatoly Frost, please. I've already announced Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u6	Anatoly Frost, 83 constituency, Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished members of the government, respected colleagues! I realize that there was a tragedy in Artemis, although this tragedy was evident from the headstrongness. I realize that this plane is crashed, you remember this tragedy, it's also a tragedy, and so on. So, for almost a month and a half, we have a decision in the Supreme Council, a draft decree on the recognition of the Zaporozhye region as a zone of special natural disasters in the agro-industrial complex of Ukraine with damages. And this ruling is postponed from session to session from week to week. It comes up -- you have to do something to get it involved, and then the state will pay for the damage. I would ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to take these questions into account, and when we vote on Thursday, we put the matter first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u7	Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to consider and make suggestions to the committee. I think we need to declare the whole of Ukraine a disaster zone in terms of agriculture. That's the right thing to do. Dear colleagues, I ask you to proceed immediately to Government Day to vote on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The motives are clear to hold a plenary meeting on Thursday and to consider the budget. There's a proposal from the government and the Budget Committee. I put to the vote this order, document number 4255. Please vote. [[10:15:44]] For 344 Decision taken. Thank you very much. Let us now consider the issues raised on Government Day. Out of procedure, please, Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u8	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please pass on the word to Alexander Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u9	Alexander Frost, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Frost, faction of the Socialist Party. We've identified ourselves in the factions that we've met. [[I took the word for that reason.]] Regarding the budget, the preparation and consideration of it in the Supreme Council. It's a difficult situation, but I think it's artificially complicated. Today we have reasonable suspicions that from the street of the Bank's given command by the hands of parliament to deal with the government. We're not protecting the government. But we have a majority in Parliament, we have a government created by this majority or formed. They should take responsibility for the procedure and the quality of the budget preparation. So we're going to insist that the budget protects all social positions: both the minimum wage, and other education, medicine, and so on. And then that's all it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u11	Microphone, please. Stepan Cloud. Dear colleagues, there is a right out of the procedure. So let's cancel the Rules! Let us rescind the Rules so that we do not give the floor to procedural matters. I won't give.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear members of the government! I think the question of sport is very important, but the issue of Ukraine's territorial integrity is still more important. And using what we already have as a government in the Supreme Council, it simplifies the technical consideration of events around Tuzla Island, the transfer to the hearing first today. And invite the President as the guarantor of territorial integrity and national security and the Supreme Commander of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u13	Dear colleagues! Let's move on to Government Day. On Government Day, three questions were raised. In this regard, we are forced to limit time with you to consider each issue. Offers on average every question in an hour. There's no objection. The issue of the state of compliance with the requirements of legislation and its improvement with regard to the development of sports of higher achievements and the preparation of national team teams for the Summer XXVIII Olympics and the XII Paralympic Games in 2004 is under review. Such regulations are proposed. May I have your attention, Your Honor? For the report, 10 minutes, to answer the question to the reporter, 15 minutes, 10 minutes for the co-report, and 25 minutes to discuss. Is there no objection? None. I would like to thank you, my dear colleagues, to join us in welcoming together the Ukrainian team to fight the samba that became the world's champion for the first time in history. There's a team on the balcony. Let's welcome her. The report invites the head of the Ukrainian State Committee on Physical Culture and Sports, Kostenko Mikola Pavlovich. Mikolo Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Honorable National MPs. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, the Government Day discusses the implementation and improvement of legislation in a part of the sport of higher achievements, the preparation of Ukrainian athletes for the next Olympic and Paralympic games. We see this as a focus on sport from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we understand the measure of responsibility, and we hope for positive shifts in the resolution of these issues. In view of the fact that you have been provided with meaningful information material by the distinguished national deputies, let me just focus on the main issues. The President’s decrees on the preparation and participation of Ukrainian athletes in the Olympic and Paralympic Games, the World Games of the Deaf and the State Support for Physical Culture and Sports, as well as the relevant decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which set up and operate an organizational committee in charge of the Prime Minister, the President of the National Olympic Committee, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, the Olympic Training Headquarters of the Derjcompartment and approved the Concept of Preparation for the Olympics. According to the concept, priority sports, Olympic training bases have been developed and approved at the right time, training programs from sports to Olympic and Paralympic games. Under the patronage of the President of Ukraine this year, the Third All-U.S. Summer Sports Games were held, which became an important stage in preparing for the qualifying competitions for the Summer Olympics in Athens, contributing to the strengthening of the physical and sporting movement, covering all types of the population. In recent times, decisions have been made in Ukraine that have greatly improved the motivation of sports elites. Starting this year, there have been 100 scholarships from the President of Ukraine to outstanding athletes and their trainers, as well as 100 scholarships from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, of which 25 are disabled athletes and their trainers. The executive authorities are dealing with the housing and socio-economic conditions of athletes assigned to scholarships by district government administrations. As you know, there have been strong national team members at the World Summer Universities, the main four-year competitions among student athletes. Comparing the potential of Ukrainian athletes with performances at the world championships in 2 years before the Sydney and Athens Olympics, it can be said that the starting conditions are about the same, but qualitatively according to the number of gold medals today are slightly better. The best results before the Sydney Olympics are teams or individual athletes from swimming, fencing, Greek-Roman combat, ball shooting. Practically at the same level of sailing, artistic gymnastics, heavy and lightweight athletics. But they lost their position in academic rowing, sports gymnastics, boxing, paddling, and canoeing. Unfortunately, the situation of playing sports has not improved. Preparations for the main four-year championships in Athens are far from being fully implemented, largely due to insufficient funding. In 2003 alone, Statecomsport receives 100 percent of its budget assignments, allowing us to train and ensure that our athletes participate in the Olympic sampling competitions within these small funds. With a substantial improvement in financial and material and technical conditions, we have the opportunity to take a decent stand at the Olympics and choose 22-25 prizes there, of which 5-7 can be gold. The adoption of the Presidential Decree on the Development of Paralympic Sports, attention to it by government administrations, increased funding for it has contributed to the growth of the results of disabled athletes in the international arena. If seven medals were chosen by athletes at the 1996 Paralympics, in Sydney 37, they will be able to win 42 prizes on favorable terms. The 2003 State Budget Project provides sufficient expenditure for the Olympic and Paralympic Games, but together we need to find an opportunity to significantly increase the call for training meetings and competitions, to equip sports bases and to acquire modern scientific and medical equipment. The situation may be significantly improved by the inclusion of extra-budgetary funds, especially at the expense of lottery business. Under Ukraine’s current legislation, we still have only a few hundred bracelets. In this regard, it would be appropriate to take into account the needs of sports in the relevant Law on Lottery and Money Games, and even better to support a government project that envisions such financial support for sport. To implement the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport and the corresponding mandate of the President of Ukraine, Kabmin approved a plan for the construction of modern sports buildings in Kiev for 2 years and committed the district authorities to develop and approve similar programs. At the expense of the budget this year, considerable work has been done on the base of our Olympic base in Conch of Sleep, Spartacus and "." where climate conditions are similar to those of Athens. [[Alushta]] [[Yulta]] There are plans to hold training gatherings of the Olympic teams from 10 to 12 sports in the final stage of preparations for the Olympics. In the city of Eupatoria, the National Centre for Paralympic and Defolimpic Training has been opened, and conditions have been created for disabled sports on a number of sports bases in some areas. But most of the objects included in the list of Olympic and Paralympic bases are not yet in conformity with international standards and cannot provide full training for Ukraine’s leading athletes. So there's a lot of work ahead to do to improve the material and technical base of sport. Regrettably, there is a delay in the Supreme Council in resolving the issue of the acquisition of sporting equipment for inventory. We ask you to speed up his decision, considering that athletes should have enough time to train equipment similar to that used at the Olympics. The problems of the material and technical base of sport are closely linked to the problems of scientific and medical and biological security. Sports have long become not only a rivalry of specific personalities but also a competition of advanced technologies. Given the potential of the budget, together we need to find funds for the acquisition of modern scientific and diagnostic equipment, to equip it with mobile and stationary laboratories in our research institute. Honourable National Deputies, the National Anti-Doping Center was established last year to implement the Ukrainian Law on Anti-Doping Control in Sports. In recent times, the International Olympic Committee, international federations, the World Anti - Doping Agency has greatly intensified its efforts to combat the use of banned drugs and methods by athletes. It is enough to say that only 19 athletes were disqualified in Sydney for these reasons, and four were denied medals. In order to be at the level of the demands of the international organizations involved, we need to adjust this year and the next doping lab with modern equipment to make appropriate changes to the current law. Honorable national MPs are known to be the main element in the preparation of the sports reserve for national assembly teams and remain sports schools. It is a unique system that needs to be developed and improved. As this year’s event has shown, financial, legislative, and regulatory issues remain problematic. The wage problems of coaches will be solved during the implementation of the State Training Program, which was approved this year by the Cabinet of Ministers. Other issues will be addressed by a new provision on the sports school, which will be completed shortly and by the Law on Sports Schools, which we are currently working on with national deputies, experts from the Secretariat, the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers. Dear National Deputies! As we prepare for the Government Day, we carefully analyzed the situation and concluded that our basic law on physical culture and sport needed to be reformed. That's what we're working on right now. In conclusion, I want to say that together we have a real opportunity to improve the state of affairs, to create normal conditions for preparing athletes for the next Olympic, Parisian and Defolimian games, and to create a good legislative basis for further development, for higher achievement sport in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u15	Yes, dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for a question: one in writing, one in lips. Valentin Landik, please, your question. And on the board is the name of the national MPs who are registered. Valentin Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u16	Dear Mikolo Pavlovich, you really said in your report that the game of sports is very bad at the Olympics. I'm just addressing you not only as a national deputy, but as the president of the Federation of Desktop Tennis. I want to say one thing: Well, the Euroleague is coming, we're sending it at the expense of our people's federation and so on. And yesterday your employees complained to me, and they came to me and said, 20,000, 30 were at the Olympics, but we've got Olena Kovtun, Tetjana Sarachinska and Alexander Diduch under conditions that they'll pass, and they say you're shooting 10,000, you're leaving 20. I'm asking you to examine this question. I'm saying, if there is, we send everything, the world champions, the European champions. Well, you might want to pay some attention to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u17	Dear Valentina Ivanovich, I want to tell you that we are grateful for our cooperation and for your help. That question you're asking will be solved, it's not a problem. Vladimir Mikhailovich, written question, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u18	Letters, please. I'm going to read, "At the recent World Championship of Light Athletics in Paris, the Ukrainian Assembly has fallen far behind in the general command of Belarus, whose population is seven times smaller, seven medals in Belarus, four in Ukraine. What explains the decline in sports in Ukraine, in particular, the decline of the most massive form of sports, which is an easy athlete?" That's a question from the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u19	Thank you. Well, it's too early to talk about the decline in sports in Ukraine. If you've heard the report, my information, we now have the starting points of the World Championships better than before the last Olympics. We must, of course, provide material, technical and financial conditions so that we can get better prepared. As far as athletics are concerned, it was only in 1998 that athletics had six medals, and they had two and three. And now it's changing generations, so we have 65 percent of the athletes on the team by the age of 25. And it can't go painlessly, of course, the potential of a team of lightweight athletes is high enough, I think it'll do no worse than at the Atlanta Olympics, not even in Sydney.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u20	Yes, Sergey Ratushniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u21	Dear Mr. Costenko, such a question is: The Supreme Council has decided on certain benefits in the economic sphere in order to increase the funding of the Olympic movement itself. Of course, part of that money goes to the Olympic movement. You have a proposal: Please provide a written, small bulletin to the Governing Council each month where these costs are spent. And secondly, please exclude from terminology any action or any kind of sport or industry that goes under the President's supervision. The President is the guarantor of the Constitution and the Supreme Commander. All developments in the state take place under his patronage. And whoever made him a patron on a case-by-case basis: there, lawyers or anti-laws, that's their problem. Please don't use it. This demeans the President and the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. The whole point is that the legislation today after the adoption of last year's changes and additions to the Business Tax Law, there is no sport. So there's nothing I can tell you from where these funds are being used. We're getting benefits from the President of the National Olympic Committee from the Olympic Committee, and we don't have any more. With regard to the President's patronage, there are a lot of actions under way under the President's patronage, including a single event in Ukraine: the All-Ukrainian Summer Sports Games.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u23	Yes, there is a written question. I'll read it to you. The MP's People's Landing Group. "What measures are being taken by the government in order to increase the availability of funds for the special accounts of Ukraine of the Olympics and Ukraine of the Paralympics?"
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u24	In view of what I had already answered earlier, such accounts were not opened in connection with the fact that there is no need for aid.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u25	Sergey Bubka, faction of Ukraine. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u26	I'm sorry. Dear Nikolai Pavlovich, I am interested in this question: the state of our sports medicine and sports science. What budget is planned for next year? I would also like to know when documents will be submitted to the Supreme Council on the ratification of the Copenhagen Declaration on Anti-Doping in Sport? If this declaration is not ratified soon, very severe sanctions will be imposed on our athletes, until we are excluded from international competitions, including the Olympic Games of our country. So I wanted to hear the answer to those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u27	I thank you Sergey Nazarovich for this question. As far as the Copenhagen Declaration is concerned, it should be signed by the government on November 5-6 and then submitted for ratification by the Supreme Council. And in the near future, we're going to solve the issue at the National Olympic Committee on Payments, so we're going to take this down. As far as funding science and medicine is concerned, I find it difficult to comment on the fact that there is absolutely no funding in the budget project for what we could provide with modern equipment. And there are also problems with the location of the Ukrainian Centre for Sports Medicine. Unfortunately, he does not have his own room. So these are problems that we need to resolve together in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u28	The question is so written. Viacheslav Kirilenko, of the Committee on Social Policy and Work. What steps are being taken by the government to improve the necessary financial provision for the Olympic collective Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u29	First of all, this year we have an 8 percent increase in funding compared to last year and 15 percent increase in the development of a material and technical base. For the first time in many years, we have been able to accomplish a great deal of work and practically complete the reconstruction of the stadium in Yalta, and we will finish the reconstruction and renovation of the sports facilities in Alushta by the end of the year. And there will be pre-Olympic training. There's some serious work going on at the Koncha-Sasp Olympics. This is because the government is now providing 100% of the funding. An increase of 70 percent is planned next year. Unfortunately, they are not enough. And we ask you to resolve together the issues of increasing allocations to training congregations, competitions, equipment for our sports facilities and acquisition of sports inventory and forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u30	Alexander Malinowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u31	Thank you. It's just me, Alexei Malinowski. Alexei Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u32	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u33	Nothing. Socialist faction, Cherkishina. That's my question. There's the Cabinet of Ministers decree of October 10, 2001, 1307, which provides for training for athletes and so on. There is an approved list of Olympic sports bases. Especially in Cherkas, the Palace of Sports, "The Builder". In two years, there was virtually no response from Kabmin to this Sports Palace, that is, it was not financed. What is your point of view on this?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u34	The point of view is very simple. The 107 bases of Olympic preparation for district administrations have been approved, according to a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, and that's very true, and we have focused the state funds on the 12 bases of Olympic preparation on the basics that we now need to prepare for the Olympics. Costs have been allocated to a small amount of $14 million. If they're scattered all over the place, we'll do virtually nothing on any base. With regard to the Cherkas base, there are high-rated volleyball teams there. We are grateful to the Churches for doing this, but the budget is limited, and we can only do it for the main bases of the Olympic preparations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u35	Written questions from the Committee on Youth Politics, Physical Culture, and Sports The country’s practice of financing the development of higher performance sports at the expense of the state budget has shown an unpredictability in today’s conditions to achieve significant world - level sporting results. Instead, the state has not succeeded in proposing an effective funding mechanism that will contribute to the proper development of the Olympic and the Paralympic movement. What is the position of the government with regard to improving legislation on the definition of a mechanism for financing preparations for the Olympic Games? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u36	Yesterday, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic and I discussed, one more time, options for how to raise extra-budgetary costs. In our view, one of these is one of the major possibilities of taking on extra-budgetary funds. This is a question of how to account for the needs of the lottery and the game business, as is done in other countries. Our proposals are included in the government project on this issue and we asked for support. Also, the national deputies of Safiulin, Bubka, spoke about changes and additions to the project on the same issue that was already approved in the first reading by the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u37	Valerius Suškević, faction of parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs, "Trubic Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Pavlovich, thanking you for working together to support the Paralympic movement in Ukraine, I have two questions. First. The following year is unique in terms of almost three significant sporting events: the Olympic Games in August, the Paralympic Games in September, and the Defolim Games in January 3, 2005. But funding is only. It is certainly not enough for Olympics and Paralympics. Defolimpic games due to their January 3, 2005, are not budgeted, although it is clear that December and the year will have prepared and released for the Defolim Games. You understand that we are practically breaking Ukraine's participation in the Defolimian Games. That's the first question. And the second question. After all, is there any hope that your funding for the Olympic and Paralympic games will be increased next year? It's urgent. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in fact, has not yet been included in the draft budget submitted to the Supreme Council for the Defolim Games. But the whole point is that we are now working on the budget, and I'm confident that, with the support of government leadership, with the understanding of the national MPs, we will resolve the financing and defolimpic games and the increase in funding for the Olympic Games. Now it's going to be a process, so I think we can work it out together.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u40	It's a written question. The widow of Gennady Josephovich. "What steps are being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare a national Olympic team from football to the aged XXVIII Olympic Games in 2004? What are the causes of the decline in football in Ukraine during independence? Isn't it time to get rid of things like football legions?"
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u41	I'll start with the last one. The whole thing is that the whole world is working with legionnaires, so we can't get rid of them. It's human rights. As for the decline of football, it is difficult to accept this because during the years of independence Ukraine has created an additional large network of children's sports schools. More than 100 stadiums have been built during the football program in Ukraine, a material base has been strengthened, and there are completely different competition schemes for both amateurs and professionals. But there's really no main result, we don't have a team now to play the Olympics, so to say nothing, it's no longer won the Olympics, taking third place in the group tournament. So, of course, it takes effort to make our football more competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u42	Yes. Alexy Babourin, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u43	Please pass the word to Ginsburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u44	Who?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u45	Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u46	Oh, Olga Hinzburg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Pavlovich. I realize that there is one problem at the end of the big things that you do. In 1999, using the name "Invasport" in the Sumskie district of Gluhov, in the town of Šostka, there were trusts registered in the city of Konotapi, such pyramids known as "Disabled Sport", which were drawn from my constituents, the inhabitants of these great cities, millions of money. And then, after the presidential election was over, these trusts suddenly fell apart, and their masters left. One, there, killed, the other is in the running. For three years, this lawsuit is ongoing. They used tickets to enter sports stadiums. And so far, these people -- very poor people -- have lost a lot of money. And there's an investigation. Do you know about the matter, or do you need to intervene? When does it end, is it an investigation? And why didn't I understand "Invasport"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u48	Thank you. The whole point is that this has nothing to do with a structure like "invasion," which deals absolutely with the rehabilitation of disabled people and the training of disabled athletes. So it's just using the name without the substance of the work in this case. It's purely criminal, and we can't do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u49	Yes, thank you, Mikola Pavlovich. Time's up. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Committee on Youth Politics, Physical Culture, Sports, and Tourism has the floor for the report. Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u50	Dear national deputies, distinguished members of the government. Everyone in this room understands the significance of the Olympics in general, especially the Ukrainian athletes. So the committee initiated today's Government Day, because it really needs a push to solve the pressing issues today. With regard to the legislative provision for the development of sport, the higher achievements of the Ukrainian national deputies gave sufficient attention to the last three calls. During this time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine formed an optimal legal base. But unfortunately, it has to be noted that the state of training for Ukrainian athletes to participate in these world’s most prestigious sports competitions is very unsatisfactory. And if we don't take immediate action, we can confidently predict further loss by our nation of leadership in the international sports movement. In view of the limited regulation on this issue, I will name just a few of the most important documents. First of all, this is the solution to the most painful problem -- the issue of financial security. The importance of this problem is well understood by our neighbors — Russia, Belarus, Poland, and others. In these and other countries, a considerable amount of budget is being allocated to the development of a material sports base, attractive tax policy is being pursued, trainers are being encouraged, and more selective work is being done among prospective athletes. And this approach gives significant sporting results. An example of this is the world's final athletic championship. Russia and Belarus are ahead of us, and we've already talked about it. And we're from the Olympics to the Olympics, every four years, in addition to spending on sports, and in the last minute, we're spending some money, which, compared to previous years, seems to be higher, but they can't even meet the minimum needs of sport. Little wonder, then, that from the ninth place of honor at the Olympics in Atlanta, Ukraine, Sydney has turned out to be twenty - one. Clearly, our budget cannot fully meet the needs of Olympic sports. In view of this situation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a law on the identification of additional sources of funding for the development of the Olympic and Paralympic movements. The result is the two vetoes of the President. I don't know what was going on with those who cooked the veto twice. Obviously, the main plan is to fail, and the Olympics are not in one year, but in the entire period of time from the Olympics to the Olympics. Let me also express my personal point of view. It seems that groups of politicians are competing to get more salt on each other. I think Victor Fedorovich, in vain, you agreed to lead the National Olympic Committee because there is no movement yet. In vain, the President was given license number one. With this approach to the world’s main competitions, there is nothing to look forward to except shame. Freely, those who prepare the veto and submit documents for signature to the head of state think they are upsetting the political opponent. No! No! This destroys even the hope of winning, suffers sports, and suffers the image of Ukraine. The committee suggested that the role and place of the sports lottery should be identified as a financial factor. But this proposal has also stumbled upon the incomprehensible opposition, for in its time the cost of a sports lottery has contributed to the creation in the former Soviet Union of one of the best sports bases in the world, part of which we are now using. And today, many countries of the world, thanks to the sports lottery, are decently supporting sports. We need to be definitively and clearly defined: either we're funding the development of sport enough at the expense of the State budget, or we're legally regulating the involvement of non-budgetary funds in this matter. We had a series of consultations with the Committee on Budgets, and together we found an opportunity in addition this year, and that year we don't have to allocate that money, we don't have to allocate 20 million. Money to provide at least today. And we would ask the Ukrainian people's deputies on Thursday to back us up, submit and vote in favour of the agenda, introduce and resolve at least part of the problem. This is particularly important for the creation of a modern material sports base, since in the last 12 years the state has failed to build any base or center for the Olympic training. At the same time, active sports facilities do not meet international requirements and standards. Therefore, it is necessary to spend a large amount of government money preparing our athletes at appropriate bases abroad, thereby strengthening the material sports base of countries that are rivals of our nation at the Olympics. In the same poor state, there is scientific and biological support for our Olympics, which is used in the science-diagnostic equipment of 20 years ago. It is hard to understand that the Ukrainian Sports Medical Center does not yet have its own facilities, and only 15 percent of the funds are spent on maintaining a major sports medical facility. Such foolish public policy on financing the sport sector has led to the loss of the best training staff. Today, it is difficult to find an Olympic country where coaches from Ukraine do not work. The main reasons for the incompetence of the coaching profession remain the low wages, the lack of material encouragement for the achievement of high sports results for their educators. And even the recent presidential scholarships, unfortunately, do not solve this issue. An integral part of the country’s sporting achievements has always been and remains the organization of children’s sports schools as the main training reserve for athletes of higher quality. That's how it's supposed to be. And in practice, they can't provide a proper level of training. In addition, 50 per cent of the EUSF is owned by PSOs, whose legal status is not defined. Today, by operating partly on the Social Insurance Fund’s expense of temporary disability, they are barely immersed. What kind of staff can be prepared under such conditions? Costs are barely enough for a meager salary to train teachers. There's no need to talk about the acquisition of sports, equipment, training and training. For the sake of interest, visit your esteemed colleagues at DUSH, you will not see anything except the destruction, the poverty of the unimaginable and the cold. Regrettably, most sports federations remain in the position of an indifferent observer for the development of children’s and young sports. By the way, they are led by people generally very well known in Ukraine, politicians, government officials. And it is at the level of children's sports schools that there is a scientific finding that there is a discrepancy between the activities of all the authorities and the public sports organisations that are interested. Less than a year before the Olympics. And if we are urgent, but together with the government, it takes political will and government, and the President, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if we don't urgently look at additional sources, both from the State Budget and with the inclusion of regional capabilities, the results will be adequate for the cost and contribution of our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On board, please give the names of the national deputies enrolled in the discussion. Mikola Shershun, a faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party, prepare Andrea Polito.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u52	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, members of governments, present. The truth is that the human resources of Olympic sports are found in regional, even rural, sports, or associations. The most famous are Colossus, Ukraine, Dynamo, Spartacus. Yet these names today represent financial problems. Reason one. Unconstitutional articles of the Code of Budgets, which, by allowing the funding of these associations from the district budgets, prohibits them from doing so from the district and rural areas. Therefore, appropriate changes to the budget code are needed. The other one. There's a network of culturally-licensed complexes that provide for serious sports work with young people. Convinced that the matter is worth the attention, it will soon spread everywhere and will respond to the Olympic victories of young athletes. It is therefore necessary to take the lead in providing for articles in the Budget Code that would allow for the financing of new sports structures that carry out government procurement in sports. Third. There is an acute problem of coaching and legacy of experience. If we are to have high - class athletes, we must take care of the trainers. I propose that the budget for the next year will provide the coach with an average wage at the average level of industry. Four. The activity of sports schools in Ukraine is regulated only by the Law on extra-school education. He doesn't take into account the specifics of children's sports schools. That's why it's necessary to pass the Sports Schools Act as soon as possible and to make changes to the Physical and Sports Act, where there's nothing at all about sports. I'm focusing on the adoption of laws, and that doesn't mean that only deputies have to think about solving problems. Officials should propose projects that clearly regulate the activity of the sector. Fifth. The current formula for the calculation of financial security for the sector, the construction and reconstruction of sports facilities is only population-oriented and completely disregards the maintenance and development of existing infrastructure. Therefore, it is suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers develop a new scheme, taking into account these comments. And the last. The time has come for the State and Tax Administration to produce the only approach to licensing an enterprise in sport, predicting that going through it has it. These structures are designed to make a profit. And to conclude, I would like to remind the audience of the satirik Zvanecki's words about a state that does not finance sport: "This country escapes not only the mind, but also the muscles, if they have that mind." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u53	Please, P.O. Polit. Next Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u54	Andrew Polit, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Lenin Commodore of Ukraine Dear Gennady Andreevich, distinguished colleagues! The issue under discussion today, I believe, needs to be translated into the context of the consideration of processes in the field of physical culture and sport at the regional level. It was very recent for me to study the development of physical culture and sport and train athletes to compete internationally in Kirovgrad, and I realized that not everything was as smooth as the officials were trying to convince us today. Kirovogradina has had a great deal of experience and years of established practices in the development of sports gymnasts. The specialized Children's Youth Sports School of the Hope Olympic Reserve has a base. which has been virtually unfunded for many years, and the training of athletes is based solely on the enthusiasm of the coach. In order to better train young athletes in high-level competitions, more substantive support from the central executive bodies is needed. Subject to the provision of centralized funds for sports equipment and gymnastics, the Nadja Sports School can be reorganized to the Olympic Sports gymnastics Centre as the basic framework for training Kirovogradtian athletes to participate in the Olympic Games. With a view to opening up the Kirovograd Regional Sports Class 2-3 levels of accreditation in accordance with paragraph 46 of the Programme. An integrated programme entitled “Physical education, health of the nation” approved by the Presidential Decree of 1998 would be appropriate to use the existing sports base of the Republic's courses for the development of physical culture and sports workers, which is located in Kirovograd and belongs to the Central Council of the Cultural and Sports Society of the Colossus APC of Ukraine. However, despite the fact that the courses in question have not been operational for more than 12 years and the logistics base has not been used on purpose and has gradually been destroyed. Colossus opposes the transfer of the sports base. " in the common property of the territorial communities of villages, towns and cities of Kirovograd region. This does not allow children's and boys' sports to develop properly and prepare for high-level performances at the Olympic Games and at the appropriate level. I cannot help but say that the next issue raised by the regions is the issue of the award of scholarships. Injuries, injuries and other unpleasant accidents may deprive athletes of their ability to participate in the main start of the season, which results in a personal scholarship. For the best possible level of training for athletes for the Olympic Games, as well as other international competitions, and with a view to creating an optimum environment for the training of the country's leading athletes, I consider it appropriate to award personal scholarships as a result of the Olympic cycle, as requested by the Boards of Coaches. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u55	Vladimir Puzakov, next to Kramazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u56	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Today, some indigenous historians are trying to impose the view that the Olympic Ukraine was held only in 1996 in Atlanta. If he agrees to this calculation, the Kiev Russia and Zaporozhye Sietch should be removed from our history, and much more. Unfortunately, the interest in Ukrainian sports has fallen noticeably recently. That's very bad. For in the Soviet authorities, it was accepted that a person was raised by examples worthy of imitation. But today, on television screens, on newspapers and magazines, we hardly see our competitions and our stars. Although there are stars of "Formula One", "NBA" and other great athletes, but not ours. By forgetting our own sporting history, we deprive ourselves of continuity and national dignity, for man does not live only in real time. Today’s youth do not know the glorious history of Ukrainian sports that our Ukrainian athletes have decorated. During half a century of performances by Ukrainian athletes, 210 gold medals were won at the summer Olympics. Our greatest success was in 1980, when Ukrainians who made up almost a quarter of the USSR team became owners of 41 gold medals. The record of Larissa Latina's gymnast, who won nine high prizes in the three Olympics, remains outstanding. Ukraine has won almost all sports. Our sports stars knew both old and young. And how offensive it is to hear a lot of reproach from an older generation today, which has led people to what if even sports models sell their skills for dollars. Yes, and Ukrainian stars like Blochin illustrate this. This reduces the flow of talent. But those people will say, "Do not be sorry for people like Blochin." He betrayed one party, betrayed another, and, under favourable conditions, betrayed his team, which raised him and put him on the road. And what team Ukraine is preparing today will be exhibiting at the Athens Olympics, and what forecast coaches, athletes can make today. Not at all. Today, they are more involved in finding financial support for teams than they are in any kind of sport. And take the peace championship in Paris in easy athletics, which has made two impressions on Ukrainian professionals and sick people. On the one hand, we have indeed been behind all the leading countries, and on the other hand, our young athletes have shown their inadequacy, and Ukrainian athletes have come to 36th place, winning only four bronze awards. That's the result. In view of our prospects for the World Cup and the recently completed university, it can be noted that 90 per cent of the Olympic Assembly is formed, but with what efforts? And it's highly doubtful that it is. But despite all that, we should be optimistic about the future and hope that our athletes will rise to a new level of quality and advise us not only by falling into the top eight, but also by medals. Although one optimism in this regard is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, right? The faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Demiochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u58	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to get you back to the title, the question that we're hearing today, and it's called "On Government Day on the state of compliance with the requirements of legislation and its improvement." Dear Victor Fedorovich, you have now heard the great performance of our Catherine Samoylik, she has qualified the state of preparation for the Olympic Assembly as a very unsatisfactory, Mr. Prime Minister. And you're the head. So maybe let's learn from the Belarusian leader, I mean the President of Belarus, Lukashenko, who by every minister, I emphasize, after every one, strengthened a certain kind of sport. The minister of the interior takes care of the athletics there. And let's do it! Thank God the generals won't have a belly like that! Thank God, let's do this! Why don't you?Oh, my God! In Belarus, five ice palaces were built, and this is where the money goes. And the President takes the ball and goes to the playground. Come on, we'll go with you and we'll race! Do you mind? Then maybe we'll have the sport. And I want you to remember that the physical culture and sports status indicators are set out in the sixth article of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. Thus it is written that the basic indicators of physical culture and sports are the health and physical development of different types of people. And now I'm going to remind you, Mr. Prime Minister, of you and your esteemed colleagues and our people: 680,000 TB patients, 120 in active form, first place in Europe, that's an indicator that comes out of this law, 740,000 cancer patients, 1.2 million alcoholism, 1.2 million! Well, another 550 thousand, according to the World Health Organization, are AIDS. The president actually said in America that 55,000. I don't know who set up the president like that. But I do know that the President's decrees, which are called "Approval of a Targeted Comprehensive Program" -- 98 years ago -- that the physical health of the nation is not being carried out, that the President's 2002 decree on additional measures to support the development of physical culture and sport does not observe that the whole law, the one that I spoke of, or whatever it is written about in your materials, is also not being implemented. I would also like to stress that the measures taken to develop physical culture are particularly in schools, that the coaches support the tube today, that 89 capital sports buildings have been reclassified, and 163 have not been built. Let us save them today, save them from what they saw in the Cherkas region when they were 30 years old! Matt's already broken up, and the kids are learning about him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u59	Vladimir Demökhin, Deputy Group of the People's Government, will be next on the show by Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u60	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished Victor Federovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! Today, we are looking at the issue of the legislative development of the sport of excellence within the walls of the Supreme Council. Around the world, as we know, big sport is primarily an economic category, it's a business. Legal support for the sport of excellence should be seen above all as support for the establishment of an economic basis for its development. If such an approach is not present, support for the sport of excellence is only subsidized, unsuspecting and harmful. Today, this is to the detriment of many social programs: both teachers and doctors. We will be helping today - tomorrow we will again consider this issue. This will be so until we have a clear economic model of legislative support for the sport of excellence. To a large extent, the basis of the economy is advertising. Today it is especially television advertising. Therefore, it is appropriate to comment on the possibilities of our national television, the opportunities to attract interest in sports reports, and the sports broadcasts of other genres. To date, it can be said that such an opportunity is extremely low. Our sports TV sets only push the viewers away from the screen. In the field of sports television, it can be said that low qualifications prevail. And it's not just the technical backlog of our television. Even a high-quality television picture that can be obtained from abroad by means of technology today is accompanied by rather low quality comments. Anyone who treats himself as an athlete loses the hope of seeing and hearing talented comments, interesting sports. Take, for example, those sports that are cultivated on our television: football, boxing, Formula-1. On a mass television screen, unfortunately, we're not competitive with the same Russian television, I'm not talking about the Eurosport channel anymore. We're not interested in the audience, we're interested in the consequence, and we're interested in the advertiser. The place on TV is only for talented people, on sports television, including first and foremost. This is without exception a rule. There are prerequisites for a positive change in the situation. Today we see a transition to a very decent level in sports publications, newspapers, magazines. Come on, let's go. As a conclusion, I would like to mention the following. The beneficial effects on tones in society and human health, physical, moral for athletes, will not keep the trainers waiting if the challenge of financial support is met and the challenge of creating and following up support for the real economy, the sport of higher achievements. I think that these proposals should be primarily reflected in the Government's Programme. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u61	Vladimir Yavorowski. Yes, there isn't. Michael the Wheeler will perform instead of Gavrish. Is there a Santa Claus? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u62	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Unfortunately, we cannot help but see that most of the brightest achievements of our athletes are mostly those of them who live and work abroad. As for the effectiveness of the country's Olympics, the results of the Ukrainian athletes' participation in the XXVII Olympic Games in Sydney and the XIX Winter Olympic Games in the Salt-Plake Network can hardly satisfy us. And the prospects of the Ukrainian Olympics for the upcoming XXVIII Olympic Games and the 13th Paralympic Games seem to be quite vague. It's very difficult to be optimistic here. Among the reasons behind the problems is that during the last four years, the restructuring of the Statecompartment took place three times. As a result, the State Administration of Sport and Higher Achievements in Ukraine has weakened somewhat, and the entire Olympic training system has been largely discovered in the hands of the Federation. In our country, there has been a paradox in the field of sports and higher achievements. The funding of the Olympic training of Ukrainian athletes is 90 percent from the State budget, 5 percent from the National Olympic Committee, and 5 percent from the National Federation. So there was going to be a hard system of government training in the Olympics, but it didn't work. And the authorities in this area have come to the federations and major trainers in many ways. In the absence of a rigid regulation system, they were able to decide for themselves whether to prepare athletes, participate in competitions, and so forth. It's hard to understand why it's ignored in 2000 and the concept of preparing Ukrainian athletes for the XXVIII Olympic Games is adopted at all levels. In line with this year’s work, we need to focus on the training of leaders, two hundred leading Ukrainian athletes able to claim significant success in the international arena. And the Olympic delegation of Ukraine, which will go to the games in 2004, should introduce at least 120 of the strongest athletes, only those with real chances of winning Olympic medals or, at least, getting to the top six in the respective games. Despite these basic principles of the approved concept, however, the Olympic training involves the composition of athletes, whose total number is six and more than planned. This decision immediately caused some rather unpleasant consequences, one of them being the inefficient use of public funds. Convinced that the personal responsibility of trainers should be seriously increased to the level of their professional qualifications, their continuous improvement in the effectiveness of training athletes. Currently, Ukrainian athletics, heavy athletics, and some other sports skills, unfortunately, do not meet the current requirements. Dear National Deputies! Dear government officials! If Ukraine is faced with the task of winning the maximum number of medals, of setting world Olympic records, of having a decent place in the overall tournament table, a well - founded and well - established concept of Olympic preparation should be carried out. If the task is to engage a huge number of athletes without any analysis of the Olympic preparations, to gain the maximum number of licenses to participate in the games without considering it, our athletes will be among the first or the last, we need to act the way we do now. Especially. What today's critical situation with the Olympic training of Ukrainian athletes and, in general, with the management of the physical culture and sport sector has been the background of the recent most favourable period of independence for physical education and sports by the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council. So six months ago, the Ukrainian President’s decree practically solved the problem of financing the largest group of the strongest athletes in Ukraine and their trainers in all. This is quite enough for a successful Olympic game preparation in Athens. His work in the field of physical education and sports has been greatly intensified by the government of Ukraine. Not least because Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic led the National Olympic Committee. Budgets are regularly allocated and budgeted from other sources are involved. In the regions, there has been increased activity from developing a material and technical base, solving housing and housing issues for athletes and coaches. The Supreme Council of Ukraine aims to improve the legislative framework for supporting the Olympic sport in Ukraine. Taking into account Sydney’s unfavorable lessons, it is necessary to develop a new concept of the Olympic training of Ukraine’s major athletes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u63	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u64	It's in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u65	Yes, Valeriy Suškevitch. And we're done, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! Sport as a national phenomenon is the achievement of mankind. And every nation at a national level, shaping its attitude towards sport, has the opportunity to realize its recognition in world civilization by the achievements of its representatives in world sport. Do we at least realize the potential of national sport to recognize a young state? Is sport a priority of public policy? It's very short to worry. Over the past 10 years, we have changed our sports management options five times, connecting and dividing it with young people, tourism, and changing the status of administration. And this. What gave it to the sport is unknown. And how much the government has spent on nothing and how many professional personnel have disappeared into the field is an obvious negative for our development. Why do I say that? Because I'm afraid of another change in administration that's only gonna cost. Victor Fedorovich, I'm very afraid that another change of administration, if it happens, some rumors are coming, will simply disappear as a real field. The other one. Legislation. The Law on Physical Culture and Sports, which at some point played a positive role, today does not meet modern requirements. And most of his standards are archaic today. I need a new editor. The Law on Support for Ukraine's Olympic, Paralympic Movement, which could give impetus to the development of sport, we, ourselves, together with the representatives of Minfin and the tax administrations of various governments, simply decided not to implement the State Budget without losing it. or the so - called benefits that are provided in this law. And by the State Budget Act, we financed sports even in the Olympic year. Therefore, the expectations of sports achievements are yet to come. Efforts by the State Committee to encourage Parliament and the President to adopt a new edition of the Law on Support for the Paralympic and Olympic Movement have been vetoed, and then to adopt legislation to improve the financing of sports of higher achievements in general. Again, there may be hypothetical losses. What losses, sports? Speaking of the state of the legislative provision of national sport and its improvement, I would like to speak frankly about us, the Parliament. We're not ready to define sport as a political priority. It's self-critical, but it's reality. In the Chamber of Parliament, prominent sports personalities and sports actors in Ukraine, those who have been professionally engaged in sports for many years. Are they united in a joint effort to promote national sport? Are they united in supporting national sport? Let's ask ourselves that question. And this is a political situation in Parliament that denies the development of our sport, and this is also a reality. I'm positive. The resources for the development of Soviet sports have ended. And yet there are reasons for optimism. Because there is a significant positive dynamic in the success of our youth teams and, above all, student sports. This is our future. Very briefly, dear colleagues, I cannot help but mention the sport of disabled people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u67	You can't say very briefly, it's over, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u68	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to say two words about disabled sports. You know, this is a brilliant example. One second. This is a vivid example of if there's attention to direction, it just gives you high and bright development. Today, the Paralympic sport and the defolimpic sports leader of Ukraine in this sport. One figure, honorary colleagues, seven medals in Atlanta, 37 in Sydney of our Parisians. It's because the government and the president, and you and I have supported the Parisian sport. I urge you to support our Olympic sport in such a way that it will produce future results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The minister of sports, heads, has anything to say about completion? So listen to what is being said! Dear colleagues, we will decide on the outcome of the debate on the day of the vote. The issue of the state of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in connection with drug use activities in Ukraine is under review. Thus, it is proposed that up to 15 minutes of the report, 20 minutes per question, a report by the chairman of the committee for five minutes and 15 minutes for discussion. Is there no objection? Let's get to work. The Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Sergio Vasilovich, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u70	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national deputies! Today's agenda is a very important issue: assessing the state of the art and identifying further ways to meet the needs of society in mineral and raw resources, provided that they are not easily used and that the requirements of environmental legislation are met. A successful solution is an important factor in Ukraine’s national security. Experts estimate that the share of mineral and raw materials is 40 percent of the gross national product. Production and implementation of this product generates about 60 percent of budget revenues and more than 60 percent of monetary revenues. In the upper part of Ukraine, there is a wide variety of useful fossils. The information on surveyed genealogies for mineral commodities is provided in the analytical materials provided to you. Over the years of independence, the geologic service has proved to be able to create its own mining industry on the basis of new, nontraditional fossils, namely copper, lead, zinc, molybdenum, vanadium, gold, rare soils, and metals of the seabed. All of this creates favourable conditions for the further development of the national economy, the expansion and strengthening of export potential. At the same time, the intensive use of mineral raw materials is certainly linked to the significant impact of mining on the environment. The effects of such influences are well - known to the people’s deputies. Most of the environmental problems caused by drug use have been inherited by Ukraine as an independent state since the early times of its extensive development in mining. Such an inheritance is a largely worn - out mining region with a critical state of the environment, outdated and worn - out mining equipment. A large number of non-profit mining enterprises. I would like to focus the attention of the national deputies on the measures that are being taken and planned to bring about a government aimed at overcoming economic and environmental problems, as well as on the assistance needed by the Government of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to speed up the order of the situation in this area. During the years of independence, Ukraine has created a legal base that provides basic principles of a rational and cost-effective environment for drug use. The list of relevant legislative and regulatory acts is given in analytical materials. These acts define the right of the people of Ukraine to nadra. Authorize the central and local executive authorities and local self-government authorities in the field of drug use, order of use, rights and duties of users, order of national collection of genealogy and beneficial fossils, State control and mining supervision of the rational use of nadrs, their protection and preservation of the environment in the course of drug-related activities. Legislation regulates relationships related to the use of naphthas, creates prerequisites for investment in the search, development and extraction of useful fossils, including distribution of products. At the same time, the legislative base for drug use in Ukraine was formed in various years of independence, at the same time as privatisation and stocktaking of part of state enterprises, and market relations. This has led to a disagreement between individual laws and regulations. With a view to eliminating existing differences and codifying legislation on nadra, a draft of the new Ukrainian Code on Nadra, which takes into account the current state of legislation and economic relations in Ukraine, is being finalized. Ukraine’s draft new Nadra Codex is scheduled to be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the current year. We look forward to working constructively with the people's deputies to consider the bill in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At present, a project on development strategies and the reform of the geological sector is being developed in line with the main orientations of Ukraine's national environmental policy, the use of natural resources and environmental security approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The concept is designed to provide an effective mining resource package. Taking into account the basic principles of this document, a draft Ukrainian law on the approval of a national programme for the development of Ukraine's mineral and raw materials base was developed and was first read in the Supreme Council of Ukraine until 2010. Please ask the National Deputies to speed up the consideration and approval of the programme as the basic strategy for providing Ukraine's economy with mineral raw materials in the current decade. The Cabinet of Ministers has endorsed the concept of improving the environmental situation of mining and mining regions in Ukraine, which is based on and in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on "Coupling land in Ukraine: Problems and Ways of Overcoming" by central executive authorities, a draft law on the approval of a state-wide programme to improve the ecological state of the mining regions of Ukraine is being developed. These are the main actions of the government that are being implemented throughout Ukraine. The measures that are being taken in specific mining areas are presented in the analytical materials provided to you. Despite the large number of measures the government is taking to address economic and environmental problems in the field of drug use, we consider them inadequately adequate to the existing situation of drug use in Ukraine. Therefore, on June 6, this year, the state of drug use will be discussed at a meeting of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian President's decree on the decision of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council of 6 June 2003 on urgent measures to improve the efficiency of drug use in Ukraine sets out additional measures to dramatically improve the efficiency of government regulation in the field of drug use. Improving legal security, increasing the impact of licensing on the responsibility of drug users for the economic and environmental consequences of activities, introducing more perfect economic relations in the field of drug use by harmonising the use of nadrams according to the market value of mineral and raw resources. Strengthening active control of drug use in Ukraine. The right scientific means of solving drug use problems. To implement the above-mentioned decree by the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Protection of Nadr. The process is being completed and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be submitted shortly with a draft Act amending article 240 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for the imposition of criminal responsibility for violating the requirements of legislation relating to the protection of nadr. In the order of the legislative initiative, the National Deputy Solomon of Ukraine introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, which provides for the licensing of commercial activities from mining of beneficial mines of general government importance related to the State Fund of Crops of Useful Mines. We sincerely appreciate Yuri Petrovich’s practical help and look forward to further fruitful cooperation in solving the problem of drug abuse with all the national deputies. The established arrangement for the award of special geological studies and the use of nadr has a positive impact on the state of compliance with environmental legislation. Solid fossils, drinking water and mineral water are permitted by mineral resources, and the hydrocarbon mineral raw material by decision of the inter-ministerial commission led by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine/Commission determines the winners of the competition for special permits for the use of naphthagasanes according to the position of the Cabinet of Ministers on it. With a view to improving the order and procedure of the competitions for special permits for the use of oil and gas and improving the order of their delivery, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has adopted appropriate regulations to ensure the legitimacy of the work of the commission and to contribute to the efficiency of its work. So far, there's been competitions in 14 fossil sites. In the near future, there will be 17 more races to announce. State control over compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in the course of drug use activities is carried out by the appropriate central authorities of the executive branch. General inspection data for drug users are provided in the analytical materials provided to you. With a view to further improving the efficiency of drug use in Ukraine and ensuring compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in the field of drug use activities, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine envisages the development and review of Ukraine's Supreme Council laws on Ukraine's only special eradication fund for mining enterprises and the improvement of the ecological state of mining regions, the removal of mining areas in regions where orcs of land are distributed, the natural healing resources that have been allocated to other countries. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers plans to take a number of additional measures to strengthen national geological and environmental control, as well as to ensure that environmental legislation is enforced when activities related to drug use are carried out in Ukraine. Without your help, of course, it is virtually impossible for honorable national MPs to do what is intended. We sincerely hope that by working together with the legislative and executive authorities, we will be able to dramatically improve the situation in this important area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u71	Let us turn to questions, fellow believers. Please sign up for the question. On the board is the name of the national MPs who signed up. Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Rudzikowski, and then we'll be in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u72	Dear reporter, please tell us how you regulate the licensing of water, coal, ore, oil and gas. It settles enough or requires legislative and legislative improvements in this direction. Does it work?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u73	Thank you for asking. I'd say that for today we have these 2 levels of license. It's a license for beneficial fossils that don't apply to laurels and they're decided by a working group and approved by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. And there's a second level. This is about the hydrocarbon license. They're being considered on an interdisciplinary committee and I want to tell you that a number of serious documents have been adopted recently, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees that have approved the status of the contests, and the position on the inter-ministerial commission and the working group has been approved. This allows us to do more or less in the right field. And enough or not, I'm going to say that I think, given that in the last year almost the first sessions of the more or less active interdisciplinary committee, which has already announced some kind of race competitions, I think we're going to see how we deal with this issue in the near future, and then we're going to decide with you whether we need any other legislative acts. I want to say that there's a fairly large number of national deputies on the intercom, and that's why I think that's going to give you a chance to see how it works and make a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u74	Yes, in writing, please. Here's what I read. "Is there no link between the Ministry of the Environment and the Committee on Natural Resources and the plans for the implementation of manual drug use management in Ukraine for "their" people?" Of course, it's in your paws. That's a question from the faction of Soccer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u75	Thank you. Well, I'll tell you that as a minister, I have to follow the President's orders, but I want to say that in part of the reform of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the government has its proposals to the President. And we hope that they will be included in further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u76	Ludmila Kirichenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u77	Now, you know, there's been a big sale of objects like Krudprom, Pavlogradugol, which is environmentally hazardous objects. Have you ever considered, especially in this environmental agenda, a combination of privatization and ecology, which would be desirable? That's the first question. And the second question. You have raised the issue of using napr. Please tell me, have you developed cost-effective approaches to assessing the value of tons of oil, gas and all that we are getting? Because, you know, today, here's an example of that, yes, that we allocate 347 million dollars to geological development, and we get it from mining, you know, just a funny amount, 67 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u78	Thank you. As for the reconciliation of privatization and environmental problems, I want to say that the legislative acts adopted by the Supreme Council during their work, not only during this call, but also by other calls, are all about environmental problems, their solutions, they should not depend on the form of ownership. And that's why we're looking at this issue as a matter of both private and public enterprises or institutions that have a bearing on our natural resources and natural resources. As for oil and gas stability, well, I won't tell you any news here if I tell you the following. Stable indicators are being formed today on market bases. What we're going to say about investing public funds, and what we're going to say is, the benefits from them, I think we've lost some time in the last few years of our geological exploration search and we've lost because the funding wasn't going on at the level that it needed to be. You have tables where you can see how the funding went and how you went, so to speak, geological exploration. And as you can see, over the last literally two years we've had an increase and we have this stability. But this isn't the level that we need to become more or less independent of using our natural resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u79	So, a written question from the People's Government MP group: what are the measures envisaged by the government for the first-line development of technogeneous fossil deposits?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u80	Thank you. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved a programme for the use of waste production and consumption for the period up to 2005, aimed at improving the environmental situation and rational use of secondary raw materials. Geological enterprises that are subordinated to Minecores are responsible for accounting, passporting, laboratory, technology and geological and economic assessment of production wastes in order to determine their potential use and technological load on the environment. This is what enables us to direct the first steps to avoid technological situations in the fields that we now have beneficial fossils.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u81	Vladimir Puzakov, Communist faction. I'm out, yeah. Yuri Carmazin, your question. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u82	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Mr. Minister! Please tell me, on March 6, 2003, the Supreme Council adopted recommendations for parliamentary hearings on submerging land where these issues have been discussed. Why, until now, the government has not taken action to implement the Supreme Council's decision and why the government has not paid attention to the increase and the role of the rent, because in the United States, the salary is 80 percent, and we, you know, we now have revenue, the deputy has reminded us that 67 million of all the profits are made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u83	Thank you. With regard to the parliamentary hearings after the sundown, I would say that this issue is now being dealt with in the government, but it took a little more time, since it's not as simple as it could be, so to speak, to count on. That is why we will soon be taking a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers to bring a law to Parliament that deals with submerging land. As far as rent payments are concerned, I would say to you, yes, we have this problem with you today, and it exists, it's regulated by the legislative acts that are, and if necessary, and I can assure you that it is necessary to further improve the situation on rent payments, then we need to adopt those legislative acts that could regulate and bring us to European and global legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u84	Basil Nadrag. People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u85	Dear Sergey Vasiljevic, I represent the Lugansk region, which is the territory that has been particularly affected, I would say, from the environmental dimension of the mine closure. Well, I'll get some numbers. As at 1 January this year, 39 mines were working to eliminate, 29 physically completed. Regrettably, environmental control of the outcome is not visible today. I'll give you the most outrageous example. The "Proletarska Shakhta", "Novotashkovska", village, town of Kirovsk Lugansk oblast. Mountain work ceased in 2000. Back in 1999, it was said that radioactive pollution should be addressed, I stress. It's all developed, it's all done. Today, 90,000 cups of radioactive sludge lie and, unfortunately, no movement to bury these scars, and this is the Northern Donation, these underground watersheds and everything else, unfortunately, is not being done. Therefore, the respectable Sergey Vasilevich, the question. One: how seriously does your ministry control the environmental component of the mine closure? And through the mine that I've been sounding, I'm asking you to take control of it myself.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u86	Thank you. I can say that the ministry, in my opinion, doesn't have enough control over the closure of coal enterprises. And now we're going to seriously change that question. I've been assigned to the Kharkiv Institute of Environmental Problems to develop monitoring on the problems of the closure of coal enterprises. And we will strengthen control through our territorial authorities to comply with all the normative points and acts that we should use when closing coal enterprises. I, as far as a particular mine is concerned, have noticed and taken, with your permission, to control this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u87	Basil Calinchuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Sergey Vasilovich! Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party The problem that is being considered today, as you pointed out at the beginning of your talk, is indeed archival. For Rest, it's an extremely urgent question to provide the population with drinking quality water. After all, more than 200 locations here use imported water. And in a year, according to your report, there's a drilling every year between 150 and 300. So when will it be a turn for all the places of rest to have good drinking water? That's the first question. And the second question. How are controls carried out, and what measures are taken after the timely recovery of agricultural lands that have been disrupted as a result of the open extraction of sand, clay, dust, and so forth? After all, they are thousands of hectares of very useful agricultural land. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u89	Thank you. As far as drinking water is concerned, there is now a draft law and the Drinking Water Program, which will be considered in Parliament's walls as soon as possible after it is fully harmonized and adopted in the Cabinet of Ministers. So I think you and the other deputies will be able to work on it and make their proposals when considering this bill. As for recycling, let me put it this way. There's enough legislation. That's the question I'm dealing with today. And first of all, we have to do the law in this part, we have to do the enterprises that are developing and then we have to do the recycling. And, indeed, I agree with you, with insufficient control by the controlling organs, including the Minecores. We're going to take it under control, and we're going to change the situation for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u90	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u91	Vladimir Bondarenko, faction of Our Ukraine, city of Kiev. Dear Sergio Vasilovich! I am interested in such a question. During the Soviet Union, it is known that intensive geological exploration was carried out throughout the Union, including in Ukraine. Where are the archives of those documents on the prospect of developing one or more natives in the territory of Ukraine in Moscow, or have they remained in Kiev? And the second question. How do you assess the situation of possible oil and gas deposits in the Tuzla region of the Kerchny Strait? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u92	Thank you. As for the archives, I'll tell you what they are, both in Moscow and Kiev. And if there's a question about these archives, we have a geological service, and we can address it, and there you'll have a certain, so to speak, information you're interested in. As for Tuzla Island, I would say so. The information will now be given. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this issue has already been voted on. So maybe we won't be wasting any time on this. I will answer it with my colleagues once again from the rostrum. There's a question, it's not clear yet, not exactly, we know everything that's going on there. But many of the questions that are now there need to be studied immediately. And they have a very large spectrum and not just because of the question that you've just raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u93	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u94	Fucking Communist faction. I have a question for the next plan. On many occasions, the question of the closure of coal mines in the region of Vatutin was raised here. Nevertheless, why is the government’s attitude toward coal mining and mine closure in particular in the Cherkas region? In virtually eight years, uncreated jobs that were promised have not been brought to the level of environmental conditions in this region. And the second question, the attitude to the peat. Also, given that there is not enough fuel for the population today. Today, the takeover of the peat declined 10 times in Ukraine. The Torpians are on fire, but nothing is done in Ukraine in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u95	Thank you. Well, I'm not going to open up America to you if I tell you that coal storms have their specifics, and so let's talk, not just coal industry, but our energy industry, which can't actually use coal storms in its activities. And basically a storm of coal, you know, it goes to the locals, so to speak. The area was flooded or mystictops and so on. I can tell you today that we don't have enough energy coal not only for the energy sector, but for the population. So I think that the problem of stormy coal government is now, to my mind, information is being considered by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and I think that this issue cannot be completely closed in Ukraine and has its life both in Alexandria and in Vatutino. Thank you. And about the peat. Well, peat is the same problem as it is, so let's say, we have some sort of a team, but today it's been taken by Mintopenergo to decide, and I think that with a good enough normal approach, there are, let's say, problems that stand in some way, but they can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u96	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u97	Thank you. Sergei Vasilovich! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region I'm right here in front of you. Dear Sergey Vasilovich! We had a telephone conversation with you about the situation in the village of Yavorov in the region of Ivano-Frankow. You promised me that you would consider what really needs your attention today and give me an answer. It's been over a month, I haven't received an answer from you. That's the first question, am I going to get it? And other things. Did you know that during the last 10 years in the Chernobyl area in Lopushny they've been using oil for laboratory purposes to explore oil, but from there they've been unloading one or two oil tankers, processing it and going somewhere, I don't know. And what is your position on the Ukrainian-Romanian border, Snake Island. There are large deposits of oil and gas. Is production planned there to meet Ukraine’s needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u98	Thank you. As for the village of Yavorov, I'll give you that answer because I asked you to take care of this matter. Unfortunately, it's a little bit delayed, so to speak, but I'll give you an answer this very week. As for Lopushnian and for mining, for geological exploration, I'll tell you what the question is. And, indeed, the requirements that lie ahead of accepting the exploitation are not always met. That's what we're fighting. There you have the help you had, so to speak, and the license has already been removed from these companies or structures that work. But the problem remains. I think it should be decided by us. And if there are such facts, they need to be sounded. And we will intervene in this matter. And Snake Island. Well, I don't think we need to convince anyone here that this is the land of Ukraine. And everything that is there, near our island, is our wealth, our wealth. So there can be no questions. This position was expressed both by the Supreme Council and by the President of Ukraine and by the government. So I don't think there can be any ambiguity here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Rudenko Hennady Borisovich. Please have the floor for the report. Dear colleagues, why don't we take a break? Shall we conclude Government Day and move on to the following questions? Because we're gonna have a break there at two o'clock. Is there no objection? Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. Our nation has developed a strong social view of the endless wealth of nadr and the optimistic scenario for the development of the raw materials sector. Is that really the case and what the situation is today, I'm going to try to explain. The main purpose of today's debate is to draw attention once again to the fact that nadra is the property of the people, which today is made up of 20,000 species with more than 100 species of beneficial fossils, estimated at about $7 trillion. Is this potential used effectively? The time has come for Ukraine’s use of natural resources to generate a few times more income. Whether the time had come, or eventually the exploitation of crops had provided adequate income to the State budget. And that was how the constitutional owner, the people of Ukraine, was needed. I stress that the issues in the field of drug use should be resolved by applying economic importance and by coordinating with a special body whose activities should not be replaced by different interdisciplinary commissions, which unfortunately are very large in Ukraine today. Who bear no responsibility for their decisions, as we now see. The special authority should identify the winners of the license to use the nadr and issue the licenses on a competitive basis rather than on a distribution basis. In the long run, the world is using a simple measure of the winner of the competition. The person who has paid a higher contribution receives a portion ready to meet all the conditions, including social obligations. With this approach, the budget receives additional funds, reduces the subjective factor to zero, and disappears into bribes. A mechanism should be put in place to strengthen the control of the licensed activities of drug users. For example, some drug users do not do the planned work, preventing other companies from making productive use of resources. As they say, they leave it behind. And some get the maximum profits in using old technologies, and once they've removed the peaks, they're left with poor crops with a lot of useful fossils left on each other. In such cases, the most radical and effective approach to violators is the threat of refractory licenses. Likely, an ax hung on a thread. It is important for us that a drug user realizes that a license agreement is not a protocol of intent, but a document that strictly obliges and declares both obligations and rights. In any case, Nadra is a national execution, not a regional execution. And the controlling role should only be in the state. Today, we pay rent only for oil, gas, and gas condensate. Although there is still a considerable number of useful fossils to which rent payments could spread. In other words, monetary policy should become a comprehensive government policy. There is a need for a single unified tax on the use of nadrama that takes into account the type of raw material, the size of the crop, the condition of the extraction, and other specific characteristics of each drug user. In addition, it is essential, in principle, to create a special mechanism whereby costs would be accumulated to eliminate the environmentally hazardous effects of such enterprises -- either through the creation of a special fund or, rather, a market method of insurance. Ukraine today needs more ambitious planning in the use of drugs. And the overestimation of such postulates as a government order for drug use and a plan for the increase in the amount of fossils surveyed is one of the anachronisms of today. There's a saying you can't sit on two chairs. Today, there is an example in the field of drug abuse: Today both the customer and the performer and the geologic work control body are the State Geological Service. But any authority of drug users must be clearly differentiated: the geological service must leave behind strategic planning and control, and the economic functions must be passed on to separate enterprises of any form of ownership. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are cases where buying raw materials is cheaper abroad than increasing the number of careers and mines. And there are situations where, after receiving a million dollars in income from crop development today, Ukraine will have to spend billions on eliminating the consequences of this activity tomorrow. It is therefore necessary to monitor the budget estimates spent on exploration and mining and on the environmental impact of such work. The value of mineral resources is determined by their leading role in the production of GDP, the investment process, the employment of the population. And now we don't have to bury our heads in the sand, but we need to take the next step in solving our problems with the help of the political will government. This process is ongoing, but we'll start it. We will be able to express our views on the matter on Thursday when we vote on the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u101	Yes, thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Please give us the name of the national deputies who signed up for the discussion, and we signed up for 15 minutes. Yes, Vladimir Puzakov, the Communist faction. Prepare Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u102	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradstina. Among the most common violations of the bra code is section 26, paragraph 6, “Unjustified delay in the use of bras for more than two years from the receipt of the licence”. Most of the licences for geological exploration are issued primarily at the source of local importance with the right to introduce the industrial exploitation of the latter. Private firms are not interested in investing in subsoil exploration for a period of several years, are engaged only in the pilot exploitation of land, as well as the rapid implementation of raw materials in the market. As a result, the actual exploitation of the country's mineral and raw materials base takes place on a large scale. Ecology suffers and taxes are not taxed on the amount of fossils obtained. After the end of the geologic exploration licenses, firms are dissolved in the so-called fog and then re-emerged under other names, addresses, and other bank props. And finding the ends in such cases is virtually impossible. Among the most common minerals falling within this area are construction sand, brick clay, granite muzzle, building blocks shells, underground drinking mineral water and many other minerals that are not required by the development of complex technologies and significant means. Costs and profits are calculated at thousands of per cent in favour of profits. And that kind of business in Ukraine is thousands. Radioactive natural gas - radon - also has a special place in the environment, which is heavier than air, is reflected in semi-dwelling motions. The radon has a half-life of almost three days. In recent years, a large number of such facilities have been rented under cafes, discotheques, various workshops and so on, where people are permanently staying. Gas is hazardous to health, especially in unventilated semi-basements. When a sanitary passport is obtained, there must be a radon survey and a system ventilation system. Unfortunately, no one does that. And at the time of Soviet power, the Government was approved and successfully funded from the State budget for all the well-known Rada programme. She had the status of a state programme, and she had geologists. Human settlements have been adapted to their recommendations. And now, unfortunately, we've forgotten that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u103	Yuri Karmazin, next to Chevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue today relates to the state of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in connection with drug use activities in Ukraine. I have a question: why isn't the Attorney General of Ukraine informing us today? Because this task is provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, which is stipulated by the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Act. Why we do not have help today regarding the measures we have taken. Because one list of only violations that are allowed by conservation legislation that are shown by the Minecores, the State Committee's supervision of checks, such as the absence of mining for the development of crops, the inadequacy of the technical boundaries of the mines of the licensing area, the submerged and wetting, the salinization of soils, oil pollution, irreversible deformations of the earth's surface. The phenomenon, and so forth, of the arbitrary, unlicensed exploitation of beneficial fossils and the mass of violations suggests that there is no enforcement of effective legislation. Not only is there no legislation, but it is simply not being implemented. So I think we should have invited information from the Attorney General's Office. And I don't see where Mr. Piscoon's activity is. So he crawls out of his pants, yells that they're taking little from the D.A.'s office. And now there's an opportunity for the whole state to state how the prosecution's requirements are met, how it works out the budget it receives, and how we're not informed. Dear National Deputies! If we ask why this is the situation that has been discussed in the presentations today, it includes the question that we have raised too late in the recommendations of the parliamentary hearings on submerged land. On March 6th, we adopted paragraph six, which gave the government until January 1, 2005 the draft Law approving a state-wide programme to improve the environmental status of mining regions in Ukraine. And that's what we need now, not by 2005. So I'd say we need to change our priorities. That's the first one. The other one. Dear National Deputies! Analysts say that there are 24 years ’ worth of oil in Russia. The fertilization began in vain today around Tuzla. For good reason, Romania does not give us, in fact does not allow us to implement, to use our natural environment and not import gas and oil, but in the Snake region and in the Odessa, Kerchen Bay area, wherever we want, to mine these fossils. So I think we're going to need to get rid of taxes on oil and the natural gas of that gas that's being extracted within the territorial waters and outside our economic zone. This is going to attract investment, and it won't allow you to stretch the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u105	I ask the secretariat to turn off the microphone after three minutes, not to put me in an awkward position. Alexander Shevchenko, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Get ready for Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear members of the government! Dear colleagues! Alexander Shevchenko, 39th constituency, Dniproperty, Ukrainian Agrarian Party First of all, I want to congratulate everyone who attends the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks and point out that Ukraine is one of the richest countries in the world by its geopolitical location and fossil stock. In the context of the question being heard today, Dnipropetrovska is also a unique region of Ukraine. More than 300 species of beneficial fossils have been discovered and over 60 percent of their national production has been obtained. Many of them are unique in their stocks and quality of raw materials. The region is home to the largest in the world. Mountain combinations of strategic raw materials. Many questions, unfortunately, are not resolved in this direction or resolved slowly. First of all, about drug use. According to article 1 of the Codex on Nadra, they are exclusively the property of the people. So any deal or action in a direct or hidden form has to be cancelled, because some. The companies themselves make their own production of raw materials and unobjectively light or conceal their production of the Watt Iron ore "Southern Mining Combine", VAT "Dniproperty" of underground water. The Dnipropetroval selective plant. According to these and other facts, criminal cases and fines have been applied -- about 10 million dollars. With a view to further non-admission of offences, a state-by-state balance of beneficial fossils should be fixed at the legislative level, and the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers’ decision on the purchase of land for further development of Krivoriztal should be expedited. It's different. With regard to conservation, comprehensive monitoring of the nadr and the surface of Ukraine must be carried out. Land management. For example, in the city of the Maxima factory in the district of Marganec, Dnipropetrovsk district, there is a city. It's a safe house. An extremely ecological condition resulting from a close - up. The shelter has led to a significant deterioration in health and a decrease in age to 57 years. Today, there is a possibility of development. Reprocessing. concentrate, which is an important raw material for industry. However, the issue is virtually not resolved; people are sick. Equally important is the development of conservation zones around rivers. Yes, these measures need to be budgeted. But it's better to do everything in time than then eliminate the causes of technological disasters. And it's only by turning Drachevsky's deputies, Alexander Edina and Mikola's car driver that the license will finally be granted, thanks to the support of the head of Ukrgeology of Gursky Dmitry Sergiyovich, and, in the other case, to clearing the Jęta River, where there is no submerging and people can count on life and work to go on. Taking measures to protect the environment will reduce the environmental pressures of many areas and bring them closer to sustainable development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u107	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Prepare Mihowich instead of Masenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u108	Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! Nadra is the property of the people of Ukraine and is provided only for use, as provided for in article 4 of the Ukrainian Nadra Code. According to article 28 of the Codex Codex, the use of nadramas is paid. The use of the drama does not exempt users from payment of other compulsory fees and taxes. However, the cost of using the drums for the purpose of producing fresh ones for commercial purposes does not go away. Here's an example. Sosa Sola uses 3 million liters of water for commercial purposes, I'm sorry, 3 million decaliters of water for commercial purposes, selling its produce at 1 liter of drinks at the cost of 1 liter of fuel oil and not paying for any excise duties. This issue must be settled. Our Ukrainian giant enterprises are causing enormous damage to the environment and the environment and are paying, in my view, symbolic contributions to the Environment Fund. We must adopt strict legislation in relation to those enterprises that are environmentally harmful. Most of the metal combinations are privatized today. There is no cost of improving or reducing emissions into the environment. This is a matter of principle for our Supreme Council. I draw the attention of all the national deputies to the fact that there was an unknown infection near the Yavorov region, resulting in hundreds of people getting sick. There was a Minister of Defense here, and I'd like to ask him what did the Ministry of Defense do to compensate people who were affected by the training in the neighborhood, to compensate for the physical damage done to Ukrainian citizens living next to the polygon. I also wanted to draw attention to other regions. Such as Sukoolsk, regions like Yavorovska Sirka. Government and, I think, legislators need to develop legislation in a comprehensive way to create funds for each environmentally harmful species. To compensate for the restoration of the environment and the balance around the developed habitat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u109	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction. Prepare the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u110	Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, colleagues, voters! As we know, nature has not subdued our own land. Its mineral and raw base is more than 150 birthplaces, about thirty species of fossils. Among them are gold, silver, and other questions, building materials, salt, mineral waters, and, of course, priceless forests. However, these riches are not fully used, and the main thing is primitive, uncontrollable, accommodating, accommodating. In the unsatisfying thirst for temporary income, eating and domesticated takers ignore not only economic relevance, environmental requirements, valid legislation, but also morality, common sense, and self - survival instincts. Here are just some facts. With enough mineral resources, the mining sector accounts for only 1.6 percent of the industry. What about the Carpathians? Despite catastrophic floods, bans on severe cuts, and other laws, forests are being destroyed and exported abroad at no cost. Yes, over the past four years, fixed woodware has grown from 638 thousand. up to 1 million 55,000. I mean, it's a long way from 395 to 531 thousand. cubic meters. Notice, however, that 87 percent of them are exported by unprocessed wood, round. And in general, it's up to 220 million. That's what I'm talking about. The biggest violations are allowed in agrolisses. Frequent fires, primitive crackling of wood, arbitrary cuts, oil and gas accidents, and other violent violations cause great damage. But most of the disadvantages are caused by mineral waters. The problem is the preservation of the secrets of the surveyed reserves and the most advantageous areas have been purchased by innkeepers and locals, and today there is actually a golden fever around the mineral waters at Zakarpatta. In addition to four solid firms, this is done by dozens of other small businesses that are actually engaged in filling the often normal water with mineralization, that is, creating a legend. And for comparison. In the year 95, 2.3 million people were in the area. Doual mines, and last year 6 million, or growth, as you can see, more than twice. Therefore, in order to put an end to such disadvantages, it is appropriate in the near future to prepare the necessary changes and additions to the laws on the use and protection of furrows, to order the licensing of this type of farm activity, to adjust the distribution of incomes so that local budgets also have adequate accounting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u111	Ivan Hare, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u112	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear National Deputies! How can we assess the state of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in drug abuse? I think we have a terrible painting, a terrible picture all over the chain, from licensing to mining and mining. It is not uncommon for a study of the nadr and extractive fossils to be carried out without a special license, i.e. arbitraryly, illegally. In addition, if the development of fossil deposits is not so rare without documents on the right to use land, mining and the absence of projects to develop the technical boundaries of the licensing area mines, it is evident that the violation of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine is that nadra is an object of property rights of the Ukrainian people. In addition, the owners often ignore the prescriptions of the controlling authorities, such as the assessment of mineral and fossil wastes, the creation of a network of observational wells by groundwater, the lack of calculation of useful fossils, the disruption of time limits for the exploration and industrial exploitation of crops, and so on. All of this points to remarkable uncontrolled use of nadr. A very low level of ecologicality in geological research and mining is very low. Land recuperation is being done in scant quantities, significant areas have been contaminated with soil and water, increased air pollution caused by oil spills and gas discharges from pipelines, salinization of soils, and irrigation, and karst phenomena. Exploiting beneficial fossils is done using morally and physically outdated equipment. So the efficiency of using nadr is pretty low. What is the main reason for such a dissatisfaction in the area of mining and mining? First, this sector has not become a mineral and raw base for the Ukrainian economy, it has not become a whole economy, it has not yet been defined the specific objectives and objectives of its development, but the need for beneficial fossils. The branch actually functions as a raw source for export that generates serious environmental problems but gives little economic effect to the state. The other one. Regrettably, the ideologies of continuous development have not penetrated the management of economic activity in this area. What sectoral economic and environmental policies can be discussed if a sustainable strategy is not adopted at national level, which should be an important component of a national environmental strategy? Third. Should we have expected better results, a better situation in this area, if so far a system of state integrated governance has not been established for all natural resources? Moreover, for more than five years, the management element of the sector has been undergoing permanent reform. The administrative reform has now begun to be smooth, but consistently rid itself of the idea of providing integrated government management with natural resources and mimicking in the sector-based management of the oligarchic type. In order to ensure the free access of oligarchs to beneficial fossils, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources has been reformed several times by ministers. As a result of these oligarchic surgical operations, the Minecores have collapsed into the Ministry of the Environment and the State Committee of Natural Resources. What must be done to remedy this situation? [[I'm done.]] One: finally, we're going to do a real administrative reform and we're going to create a system of integrated government management of natural resources, including nadrama on the basis of the Ministry. The current management status of the geological sector is not sufficient to provide for and develop progressively. Second, it is necessary to create a licensing chamber within such a ministry, whose activities will ensure transparency and competition in the granting of special study and use permits. It's an inter-ministerial commission that now provides. [[I'm done.]] There are licenses for hydrocarbon mineral raw materials. A few dozen people can't be an effective structure. Finally, strengthen state control. The laws are--there's no control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, consideration of the state of compliance with the requirements of environmental legislation in the course of activities related to drug use in Ukraine has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion that has just taken place. The question is: "The state of preparation for work during the fall-winter period 2003-2004 of thermal facilities and the exploitation of heat distribution, energy supplies and the state of the tariffs for heat transmission." The following regulations are proposed: 15 minutes for the speech of the head of the Semžilkomongosp Semchuk Grigori Mihajlovich, the answer to questions within 15 minutes, the co-reports of the committee of Valery Pavlovich Desert in 7 minutes, the heads of the Committee on Fuel and Energy in 5 minutes, and the debate for 15 minutes. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please. He has the floor to report to the Head of the State Committee on Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, Semchuk Grigory Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u114	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, invited. A comprehensive analysis of the miscalculations made in the past years on ensuring the country's performance during the fall-winter period allowed the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central and local executive authorities, to fundamentally change the mechanism for the implementation of the winter preparation plan. At the end of the last heating season, practical work began immediately on the implementation of measures developed by central and local authorities to prepare housing and utilities for work during the fall-winter period 2003-2004. The state of preparation of these subjects and social subjects was considered in government meetings, meetings with the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, in colleges as central executives and local authorities. On the basis of the ongoing monitoring carried out every week by central and local executive authorities, for the first time in this year, the local authorities held selective advice on energy accounting, twice a month, on the subject of preparation. In the fall-winter industry and the cost of housing and utilities. An interdisciplinary commission is working to monitor the preparations for the heating season. According to the chart, 12 areas of the country have been checked and practical assistance provided. In order to eliminate the extraordinary events that took place last year, the government has decided to finance emergency measures in Colkino and Yantarne in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Land of Lugansk, Poltava, and a number of other locations. Plans are currently being completed in these cities. Thanks to the complex measures taken to prepare the Housing Fund for the thermal supply system, the winter - working condition of October 1st is distributed to you in the materials. There's only one thing I can say that as a whole, on October 1st, life-support systems were prepared for an average of 96.98.99 percent. Carbon stocks amount to 314,000 tons because 76 percent of the liquid fuel is stored in 163,000 tons or 66 percent. Much attention was paid to the government in the preparation of housing funds and social facilities, especially in depressed areas, where there was a backlog in the preparation of the marked objects for work during the winter period. I would like to point out that in the current year in Ukraine, compared to the same period last year, the level of housing-communal production in general has improved. The rate of housing preparation increased by 10 percent, blacksmiths by 3, heat networks by 1.5 percent, plumbing facilities by 8 percent, and coal storage by 9 percent. It should be noted that compared to the last year in the water supply and sewerage industry, plans for the amount of water and sanitation capital have been increased by an average of 42 percent, for the first time in recent years. Dear National Deputies! The reported information from the preparation of residential-communal facilities for work in winter conditions is, as I said, a state on October 1st. The work continues. And according to last Friday’s Selectorial Council, all regions reported completion. Full planning has been made for the preparation of the housing fund in residential and utility facilities in the Volinsk, Žitomirski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Ravenski, Ternopil, Chernivite region. Test rifles are carried out in all regions. Involved children’s preschools, hospitals, have been opened. In general, we can already say that, technically, the housing and utility systems are almost ready to work during the fall-winter period of 2003-2004. Since October 15, that is, tomorrow, a constant monitoring of the second, too, begins for the first time, of the heating season in residential agriculture, educational facilities, and health care for rapid intervention in emergency situations. This monitoring will be conducted by the committee by the end of the heating season. However, one of the main factors that affects the state of the heating season is the state of consumers' accounts for residential and residential services and residential utilities for energy. So this issue is under constant government control. Debt for residential services increased from 6.2 billion dollars in 2000 to 7.4 million dollars this year. And virtually this year, they had a steady trend towards growth. However, as a result of measures taken by the government and local executive authorities, the debt of the population has been reduced by 420 million since May of this year. If in January 2003 the level of pay for the population of the Ukrainian residential services consumed was 75 percent, in July - 133, in August - 109.9 and in six areas this figure is over 120-160 percent. In the first year, the country's population was paid 818 million dollars for residential services or 19.7 percent more for the corresponding period of last year. Debts from accounting companies declined by 178 million during this period. This led to increased funding for winter preparations. In addition, it had a positive impact on the state of the accounts adopted by the Supreme Council by the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Apartment Wages, Payments for Housing Services, Used Gas and Electricity. After becoming effective as of July 1, 2003, the bill and the corresponding government decree were created and operated by permanent debt commissions in all areas. As a result, in July-August this year, 131 thousand contracts were made with the population to pay off restructuring debts. The total amount on which contracts were made for the part of the rescheduled debts amounted to 87.9 million dollars, and the amount of payments made amounted to more than 5 million dollars. This work will continue to be carried out under constant government control. At the same time, there is a debt restructuring programme for residential and utility enterprises in front of energy and budget providers. The government is working to solve this problem. According to the Ukrainian Law on the Write-off of Unpaid Natural Gas Volumes, an appropriate mechanism for its implementation is being developed to determine the conditions for the write-off of unpaid amounts of natural gas consumed by the heating company. At the same time, the government considers it possible to support the draft Ukrainian Energy Debt Act, developed by a group of national MPs. In September 2003, more than 59 million succeeded in reducing the debt for natural gas consumed by utilities. However, it is disturbing that the current debt for gas for 9 months this year remains significant and currently accounts for 305 million dollars. Therefore, it is not possible to solve the problem of energy accounting and the provision of quality services to the population without sorting out tariffs for residential services, aimed at ensuring efficient management and the economic use of energy and material resources. At this time, tariffs are being set, as you know, by the appropriate local authorities. The most significant increase in municipal tariffs took place in 2000, when tariffs for the population for the services were increased by 40 per cent, allowing to increase the cost of services on average from 50 to 60 per cent to 90-95 and to reduce the price gap between industry and the population. However, with virtually constant tariffs and an increase in the cost of heating supplies in 2001-2002, there is an average of 70 to 80 percent of the cost of compensation to the population today and there is a further decline in the cost of heating services. This is also caused by the fact that heating services are the most energy - efficient. The highest self-sustainability they have is fuel costs -- 51 percent on average, the cost of electricity is 11 percent on average. A number of measures have been prepared by the government to improve the financial situation of residential-communal enterprises. In order to organize the process of pricing in the field and to prevent where. The government has introduced to the Supreme Council a bill amending the tariffs. amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices, which provides for mandatory compensation from local budgets for the loss of housing and utility enterprises in the case of approved tariffs below the cost of service production. There is also a rule on the calculation of the delivery tariff for heat and hot water, the order of prices for centralized water, heat and water services. Water supply and water supply. . draft law on the provision of heat to Ukraine's population. In a new edition of the rules on the supply and use of thermal energy, the rules on the provision of services from centralized water, heating and extraction, and the order of pricing for central heating services. I would like to inform you, honourable national deputies, that the government, our committee, is preparing such proposals. We're fundamentally changing prices for housing services. We are now moving away from outdated methods and moving on to new tariff forms. The main target tariff should be economically sound, the tariff should be transparent and the main ones are that businesses on the ground do not have the right to include costs that are not related to the production of basic products. What is the sin of celibacy, the checks that have been carried out in a number of regions, we see that the cost of sponsoring aid, gifts for holidays and birthdays, and so on. Thus, these arrangements will allow only those costs to be incurred by the population. Moreover, these orders are consistent with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, the Antimonopal Committee and are registered in the Ministry of Finance. Now, this order works in a water-supplying, water-supplying farm, and it's about to come up with this kind of heat-supply system. In order to stabilise prices for heat and hot water supply and to prevent them from rising energy costs, the government passed Decree No. 696 of 15 May 2003, which gave the authority to install natural gas prices for utilities to the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory in Ukraine with the consent of the Mineconomy. With a view to reducing the cost of housing and utility production, the Government's draft State Budget Act 2004 for the first time in years of independence provides targeted funding for subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets of 400 million dollars for the purpose of reducing the cost of housing services. Money for pre-disaster measures and prevention of technological catastrophes in housing and utilities. To create a legal basis for civilized relationships in the area of housing services, to stabilise the financial and economic situation of the sector, to remove it from the crisis, to increase the responsibility of consumers at the time of reckoning, and to service providers for the current year also to prepare and introduce to the Supreme Council a new edition of the Ukrainian Housing Code, to draft legislation approving a state-wide programme for the reform of housing and utilities for the period 2004-2010, to amend the law on licensing certain types of economic activity. Other normative instruments are being prepared as a mechanism for implementing reform in the field. I look forward to your distinguished national deputies' support for their consideration. Dear National Deputies! We understand that housing has accumulated, and there are still a lot of problems that have not yet been solved. When you work in the districts, you know very well about them. That is why we are ready to respond quickly and address all the current issues that arise, as well as to cooperate fruitfully on an integrated and systematic approach to reforming the sector as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question. Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk, next Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u116	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party The great Grigory Mikhailovich! You've informed the people's deputies in very detail about the state of preparation for the fall and winter season. And I have to tell you, not so long ago I was at a college meeting in one of the districts of my district in the district government, where this issue was also discussed. And it went well as long as I didn't raise the question, but how the electricity was provided, because boilers could be prepared, and the gas would be, and the coal would be, and the oil would be, and the electricity wouldn't--and everything stood, and the water wouldn't be served, and the heat would be gone. And that's where the closure came in, because no one can influence the fan so-called disconnection and so on. What is more, they sometimes turn off electricity not only for those who do not pay but also for those who pay because, as they explain, there is no technical possibility of shutting down only one object. So what's going on here? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u117	Thank you. The question is very topical and very serious, and, really, the situation, and I've talked about it, and I'm reaffirming it, about the debt for energy and the payment of current payments. We're going to say directly that we have to pay for everything, including primarily for energy. That's why we're saying that we're now doing, practically, new approaches to pricing policies for housing services. I'll give you an example of the introduction of a new tariff order in the city of Mikolayev in the current year in Vodokanal, which had debts of 1.01. This year more than seven million, made it possible to gradually account for debts and a previous payment of 100,000 was made in August. In addition, the government is now operating a mechanism along with Minpalevenergo on armor, and a mechanism is being put in place on which conditions that can, in short, be shut down and what can not be done. That is, life - support facilities should be controlled in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u118	Please tell me, do you have any written questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u119	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u120	Please, let's do it in turn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u121	Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications. "On the basis of what documents, orders or orders is the establishment of restricted blankets and regulators in heating systems? And who controls the installation of such additional devices and checks the appropriateness of such actions approved by the project? Why are project indicators changed without adequate calculations and all the expertise defined by the legislation for project documentation?".. That's a technical question. And so far, this is regulated by the relevant normative instruments. The blankets and soles are installed on houses or on consumers according to the design documentation developed and the corresponding calculations. They are established by appropriate thermal organizations in the presence of a representative, owner, or house, or object. They seal up, and no one has the right to take off this blanket or replace it with something else. If there are such violations, appropriate measures should be taken by local authorities to deal with such violations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u122	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u123	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, what is the purpose of storing more than 1 million tons of coal now? Because last year you have an excess of one and a half million tons of coal left, and there is an increase in combustion at coal, gas, and expensive Russian gas. You give about 854 million cubic meters per month. What Is the Need for Accumulation? Is there no political basis in this? You get me: I mean, tough next year, tough presidential election and so on. What Need?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u124	Thank you. With regard to utilities or utilities, we do not aim to store fuel for the entire heating season immediately. And that's why I called you numbers 66 and 77 with an extra percent -- that's from the general need for the whole heating season. We put the task ahead of us, to the local authorities, to make the accumulation possible so that we can start the heating season, and above all, to be clear contractual obligations that this fuel must be. As far as big energy is concerned. So I think the minister, my colleague Mr. Ermilov, may be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u125	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u126	Deputy faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Mr. Simonenko. It is known that the critical state of basic production funds in housing and utilities, moral, physical weariness, ranges from 70 percent to 80 percent. It causes an increase in the number of accidents in the heat supply systems, resulting in cold weather and pollution of the environment, including drinking water. Who personally was responsible for this to the members of the governments. Why does the government not develop an effective, complex program to get this sector out of the crisis? Ladies and gentlemen, all questions are correct. Indeed, today’s technical situation is critical. And we're saying it frankly, truthfully, looking into each other's eyes. I'll say more today, the number of emergency networks is only about 30 percent in the water supply, which is almost 38,000 out of 140,000 kilometers long. This leads to great losses and overexpenditures in production. And this sad painting can continue. We've already reached the number of crashes per mile of the network, two crashes per mile of the network, which is more orderly than in European countries. The question is, this is a technical situation caused by one sharp deterioration year after year in the financial situation of residential and utility enterprises. We ended up spending half a billion dollars half a year. The accounts payable amounted to 8 billion at an annual service level of 6.7 billion. So you really need a complex and systematic approach to how to get out of this situation. So I apologize. So this is the second question, and they're related to these two questions. So the government and the state-wide programme, the 2004-2010 project of the state-wide sector reform programme that you already have here in the Supreme Council, which envisions three main areas of reform of the sector, is the improvement of the legal and regulatory framework. To date, we have only one basic law on drinking water, drinking water supply, and what reform can be discussed without legislative substantiation. The second direction is to improve the management system, taking into account market relations in this area, it is unreformed today. And the third question is the financial stability of the sector. What's important is that all of these issues have to be solved in a complex. And what we're going to do in the program is we're going to talk about it in the near future, and we're confident today that if they're going to be done in a complex, systematic way, we're going to step out of the situation that we're in today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u127	Gregory Mikhailovich, try to answer the questions in a more concise way. Please, Olga Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u128	Hinzburg, Communist faction, 161 constituency. Dear Gregory Mikhailovich, I have these two questions for you, and perhaps there is one request. The point is, of course, that the government or our state has made a mistake, which immediately, at such a low wage, has put on our citizens' shoulders a hundred percent repayment of municipal services. And they're suffering from it today, we all understand that. Can you tell me, please, what makes the price calculation one square meter of heat available, and why is it so different throughout Ukraine? And next to that, that's a question. And why, when heat isn't enough in the apartment and it's about 5 and 7 degrees, the heat calculations for the subsidies are done in this bureaucratic method over 2-3 months. And only then can a person get it. I have a request for you. You're in charge of this department, and I've been talking to you several times, and all the ministries I've been to probably six ministries. I have such a complex problem in the Insulting Water Supply, where it is forbidden to drink water from wells in the village of Sstensk district in the Sumsk district. She's being brought into the barrels today. And for three years now, we've been building an artesian well there to supply, everyone refuses, and people need to drink water. There is a ban on sansation, the Ministry of Health, including your knowledge of the problem. Why it is never supported anywhere at such a high level as the nations. Why not ask the district authorities that people are poisoning with chemical water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. Indeed, all the questions you have raised have room. What is it about calculations per square meter and what is the different price in regions? The point is that this applies, by the way, to water and sanitation, in each area, to each region, to its own system, as well as to water supply, water supply and heat supply, and therefore costs may vary. What is important is that they should be counted according to those methods, and in view of the order we speak, so that there is no abuse in this matter. As far as the calculations are concerned. The rules governing the provision of services clearly define the mechanism that regulates these issues. And it clearly states that if utilities are provided with deviations from the standards, and the consumer has turned to any other company that provides these services, the company should do the math within five days and not pull it. What do you say, two or three months. This should be controlled by the local authorities, because under the Local Self-Government Act for the quality of services, it is the responsibility of the local self-government authorities to provide the necessary number. Therefore, if there are such cases, local authorities should react, react, engage, and take steps to avoid such cases. As for the specific issue of wet water, I wrote it down, we're going to look at it, and I really want to confirm again, for many years, there has been no State support for modernizing the housing system. What's more, you said it right, you're making a decision about it. The shift to 100 percent tariff coverage is also, I'm guessing, it was a mistake and there must be some step-by-step shift to this case. So we have the situation that we have. But for the first time this year, the government has predicted the 400 million, and we're going to look, we're going to work with the area to include this object, and then we're going to work with you on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u130	Please have a written question. Gregory Mikolaiovich, do you have a letter?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u131	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u132	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u133	It's the Committee on Construction, Transport and Housing. "How and who actually controls the provision of services, their quality and compliance with the requirements of the normative documents, as well as the subsequent accounting for consumption of services and accounting management?".. So this question -- I just answered -- they're the same. Besides, it's again, the local authorities -- what's written down by law. And we're also doing this selectively, and our committee, the Antimonopoly Committee, is doing it selectively. consumer protection, new inspections and so on. We've got a lot of vetters, but the main thing is the question of local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u134	Please, Ivan Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u135	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear reporter, I'd like to ask you a very specific question. There is such a city called Kremenchug on Dniper, in Poltavščina. As you know, the water that goes in the water is not suitable for drinking, it's suitable only for technical purposes. [[I think you know that.]] And the city, if it wants to drink, has to buy a bucket of artesian water for 3 bracelets and more. Tell me, how long will it be in Cremenchuk, and how will it be in winter, and do you even know what will be the solution to this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Indeed, I know this situation. Personally, I was there last year, really, there's a question. And what's more, there's still some questions that we don't understand, so we've connected our branch institutes to study what this kind of water is, and to the Institute of Colloidal Chemistry of the Academy of Sciences. Last year to stabilize this situation, you know, the government has allocated funds for running a water tank in its proper condition. Now we have this situation under control, and our institutions are working with the Kremenczuk water channel and we are working on new technologies for deeper water treatment that comes from this watershed. We know this situation, and I can give you a reasonable answer, which is already done, and what is the perspective of this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u137	Hell-bent Alexander Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u138	Pecklusenko, "Regions" faction, "Regions", Zaporozhye region. The distinguished rapporteur, you said that everyone, in particular sponsoring aid, posters, salutations, was using the calculation. Tell me you've done this test selectively, or everywhere, first. Are there recommendations? Do you not consider it advisable to introduce a marginal level of profitability in this situation? That's the first question. Second question. With all due respect for your professional report, I believe that it would be more useful for us, as deputies, to know the situation in the region: when will the heating season begin in the country? In what areas, in which regions are there problems, and in what areas? I am particularly interested in the Zaporozhye region. Can I get you some information?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u139	Thank you. On the first question of thorough checks or sampling? We're doing sample tests, our committee. Right now, at the commission of President KRU Minfin, he's doing a thorough background check on all housing and utility enterprises, including on this issue. In addition, this year, at the request of the Deputy Prime Minister, the head of the interdepartmental committee on reform of the field, these checks are carried out by both the Antimonopoly Committee and the Committee on Consumer Protection, and these materials are constantly being considered and relevant to the response in places. But that's not the point. Mainly, I'm saying once again, we're looking at pricing policies in housing and housing and, above all, we're setting up a barrier so that there's no possibility as it is today. We do this through new tariff forms. As far as the information on the Zaporozhye area is concerned, I can give it to you separately, but it's also given in your materials. However, they are only given for the first of October. If you're very interested, I'll literally give you all the fresh material for Zaporezian winter prep tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, just sit tight. The word is given for a report to the head of the Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities and Liaison of Desert Valery Pavlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u141	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Today, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, information and information analysis are much about the technical and economic situation of the problem, the percentage of repaired equipment, the kilometers of renewed networks prepared for the heating season of boilers, stored tons of coal and oil. Yes, it's very important, because tomorrow can be a heated season, and we need to know the state of readiness for it. However, the extreme situation in preparation for the heating season is repeated annually, but with its features, as if the previous year had taught us nothing. And I, let me say my personal opinion, I think that there is already a need to finish hearing the Cabinet of Ministers about the preparation for the heating season or the conduct of the spring-field work, because there are structures that are appropriate in the Cabinet of Ministers that are directly responsible for this and the local authorities. Our committee is now constantly and largely receiving citizens' complaints about a wide range of pressures on their right to quality housing services. You can only guess what numbers measure the number of complaints at the regional level. There is a strong case of violations of the current legislation, of the callousness of the leaders of the HKG, or of the common sense of haughtiness. Therefore, given the regular repetition of the situation, I would like to discuss today the principles and strategic legislative aspects of this problem. As we know, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided on October 28, 2002, following the initiative of our committee, to ensure the warmth of housing, education, health, cultural, and other social facilities, which the Cabinet of Ministers found insufficient. The issue was discussed again in Parliament on December 10, 2002. The Supreme Council then extended the deadline for the execution of this decree by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. A number of measures were recommended, including the development of a national programme to reform Ukrainian housing and utilities. I can tell you that the deadline was until March 1, 2003, but today we have just received the program. And our profiling committee intends to look at this document critically, but we need to be fully aware that the program needs to be supported and, above all, to find the reality of the source of its funding. In our view, one of the most important reasons for many problems in this area is the lack of a legal field. First, there are virtually no clear legislative criteria for assessing the quality of housing services. Heat supply is one of the most visible areas. It turns out that when heat companies can't provide a temperature of 18 degrees, they're going to reduce pay by 5 percent. And every degree. And so it's up to 12 degrees. And the fact that at 16 degrees, people just start to freeze, get more sick, get more important forms, and they go around them. Such standards should be laid down by law so that the heat supplier is deprived of the right to pay at room temperature below 18 degrees Fahrenheit [18 ° C]. At a further drop in temperature, the consumer was compensated for his moral damage. Secondly, all authority regarding the regulation of tariffs in the field of heating is given to the authorities of local self-government. A formal approach to the budgeting of local budgets, as defined by the Codex Budgets, provided full stability, but at the same time prevented local self - government authorities from regulating the peak pressures that arise during the preparation period for the heating season. At the end of the last session of the Supreme Council in 336 votes, the Law on the Approval of the National Small Town Development Programme was endorsed by the Act. The focus of these changes has been on the budget of small cities, 50 percent of the deductions from corporate income tax and so on. Therefore, we will be very much encouraged to support on Thursday the changes made by the President of Ukraine today, including the committee, and we could allow local governments, that is, small cities, to prepare not only for the winter but also for the improvement of the technical provision of utilities. The committee is also developing a bill on housing utilities, which provides for legislation to establish certain procedures for the participation of the population in the development and approval of basic services tariffs. There is a need to provide clear and transparent procedures for decision - making by local authorities. People have a right to know what money they take from them and what guarantees they get about the quality and quantity of services they receive. I would also like to draw your attention to the following, and to tell the national deputies and to address the government. In order not to repeat the situation as with grain in Derzrezer this year, which is not fully stocked with grains, the Committee is proposing to set up a normative supply of heat carriers, such as coal, gas, and oil, in Derzreserv. This will be foreseen in the State Reserve for the next one, in the next year’s budget. So I'd like to make an already in force decision that we have put forward, and we suggest that this rule be added to today's draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thirdly, we believe that only ensuring the continuity of a chain of contractual relationships can provide adequate protection for both manufacturers and suppliers. I'm done. And I want to say in particular that today we have to make a decision with you about the adoption of the Housing Code, which will allow you to fully work in a stable manner. Unfortunately, though, a draft of the Housing Code, which was submitted by the government to the Supreme Council, our Administration of the Supreme Council wrote 19 comments and practically broke the Housing Code, which is before the committee today. I ask that the government pay attention to this, and as soon as possible, along with the Committee, the Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council and the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions have developed these documents and moved on. And in conclusion, I would like to say that I propose to recognize the government's work in preparation for work in the fall-winter period today as insufficient and to support the relevant draft decision tabled by the Supreme Council Committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u142	The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has the head of the report, Kljev Andri Petrovich. Please, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u143	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee considered the preparation of the fuel and energy complex for the autumn and winter season on 6 October this year. It was decided that work in that area was not sufficient. Noting the significant efforts of the Ministry to address systemic problems in the energy sector, it is worth noting that the financial situation of coal and heat-generation enterprises remains very difficult. The lending debt of the coal industry alone is more than 10 billion bracelets and exceeds the receivable by more than 6 billion. Compared to the previous year, this gap has increased by almost 370 million bracelets. Heat generation remains unprofitable, with a growing negative trend in consumer debt for heat services. This year, it has grown by more than 200 million bracelets and has exceeded 4 billion bracelets. The negative results of such a difficult situation are as follows. First. So far, the necessary coal reserves have not been created. Of the three million tonnes required, only 1.8 million tons were collected. Second. Growing consumption of natural gas. Gas consumption is planned for November of this year, which is almost three times that of last year's consumption. This is with the fact that the companies have not counted with suppliers for the gas consumed in the past autumn-winter period. As a result of nine months, the current debt of the plant for the natural gas consumed amounted to more than 137 million grivens. The total debt of the companies amounted to 1 billion 530 million. All these problems are metastasized to the local level, especially in coal-based areas. Overall, in 2003, the social costs of coal-based enterprises alone in the Donetsk region amounted to 70 million grivens. This is a diversion from production requirements in under-calculation with the coal industry. Funding for livestock was not addressed, which did not form part of the newly established State coal mining enterprises directly subordinated to Mintopenergo. This is an additional 15 million bracelets from the same financial resources of the enterprise. Domestic fuel supply for workers and pensioners of coal-based enterprises is particularly pressing. Only 56 per cent of the annual fuel demand has been allocated to consumers during the 9 months of this year. There is an extremely unsatisfactory state in the preparation of housing and utilities, which is on the balance of local councils of small mining cities. Only three cities in the Lugansk region of Krasnodon, Red Luch and Pervomaysk require 37 million grevens to prepare for the winter. Due to the lack of financial resources, the planned repairs have not been completed. Thus, in the town of Red Light, only 62.5 per cent of the thermal network repair plan was implemented at the end of September. Inadequate funding for coal closure programmes has resulted in social facilities being transferred to utilities without necessary repairs. It should be noted that the former coal socsphere represents 90 per cent of the social sphere of Krasnodon, 80 per cent of the social sphere of the city of Red Luch and 70 per cent of the city of Pervomayska. At the same time, the financial situation of the taxpayers of these cities, as we all know, is low enough, i.e. extremely negative and extremely difficult. During the eight months of this year, coal companies alone in Lugansk were owed 67.5 million grivens for the coal they shipped. And operational data show that the debt to energy increased by almost 20 million dollars this September. It's not hard to imagine what negatives, especially in finance, we can go through this winter. The Committee prepared relevant proposals for the draft budget for 2004. In particular, we will insist on the provision of 200 million bracelets to provide solid fuel to retirees and coal-mining workers. Dear colleagues! Please support the draft decision prepared by our Committee, together with the Committee on Construction, Transport and Housing and Communications. Thank you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u144	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. 15 minutes as we agreed. I'd like to see the name of the national MPs who signed up. Vladimir Puzakov has the word for his speech. The Communist faction. Get ready for Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u145	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The question of the state of preparation for work during the fall-winter period of thermal facilities is being considered too late. Tomorrow, October 15th, and we're going to have to start heating apartments and hot water, but I'm more than sure that most of the cities in Ukraine won't, judging by the 2002-2003 heating season. It is not a secret that in recent years centralized heating has deteriorated dramatically. There's a tendency of "everyone survives as they can." The technical equipment of heat distribution is not at the right level, and in general the normal calculation of the heat used does not work. Today, Kirovogradina, like all of Ukraine, is hardly ready for the heating season. Although cyrovogradian optimists also call the level of readiness 50 percent. But that is not the case. To date, many floors in Malovski, Novomirgorodski, Golovanowski, Ustinivski, Heivoronski, Dolinski, Bobrinecki and other areas have not been determined, since solid fuel has been produced for residential and social sectors 33 per cent as needed and for liquid 31. It's like, "The summer of the red saws and look around, they didn't make it as winter did." The situation can, of course, become catastrophic and one reason is the irresponsibility of city and district authorities. Let's take the streetlight. Even in the district center, no lamp or street burns. When you go out in the evening, you seem to be in dark need. How did roads and streets prepare for winter? This can only be shown to drivers who will ride them in the winter. According to official data, 70 percent of the roads in the district centre are underprivileged, and our Kirovograd district in Ukraine is associated with roads that are broken down. And this is the state of roads, streets and lighting in every city and village area. And why there are hot and cold water in Kiev after 20 meters, tariffs are not as moderate as those in the City of Marks, which is the 1st bracelet of 51 kopecks, and hot water is served only on Christmas Eve. Because the people must be taken care of at least in the 13th year of independence, not drawn from the areas to Kiev, but left to the needs of the regions. Dear representatives of the authorities who are in this room and those who can hear me! Let's get our faces back to the hard guy, because without him it's proven that you're worthless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u146	Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u147	Dear National Deputies! Dear listeners, members of the government! Now, Mr. Semchuk has been reporting from the government and saying that we've had so many meetings, and I think you're ready for the winter. But after everything else, you're not ready for winter. And this is the position of socialists. Is it possible to say that you are ready for winter when in Ukraine instead of 3 million? 800,000 tons of coal imported.? There's some district representatives sitting here. What will they do to fuel their regions? There's no coal, there's no peat, there's no wood. We leave people alone with a problem. The second question. We, the national MPs, I think the MPs who voted in favour of the government, supporting the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, thought that people from the mining region would come and solve all the energy issues. And what do we have? In the first half of this year, coal production declined by 2.5 million. Tonn while we increased the financing of the coal sector. And the problem here is not that there's not enough money, the problem is that there's an oligarch behind every mine that's pumping money out of the budget that's being channelled into coal -- the purchase of coal equipment, the implementation of coal is done through financial intermediaries whose names are on the web site of "Ukrainian Truth". From a socialist point of view, we need to take radical steps in this direction. The accumulation of coal in winter is done by burning the gas, and that's the only way we can stop and secure coal for the thermal power plants. From our point of view, it is not the cosmetic reform of the sector, in fact, the separation of the coal sector into 20 coal compounds that brings order and improves the financial situation. But by no means can corporateize continue to privatize. It's a crime against the industry, and I think it's against Ukraine's energy security. I think that the Supreme Council needs to support the law on a special legislative field when coal, gas and oil are stored at thermal power stations for the winter. From my point of view, that information that every month is now increasing by 1-2 percent of coal mining, well, it's a purely statistical error that doesn't affect anything. In terms of socialists, rising electricity prices and utilities are unacceptable. And I am turning from this rostrum to the government: I am obliged by the NCRE not to make similar decisions. I also point out that Decree 822 on the transfer of gas. about raising gas prices, if hot water is not served, our committee will recommend that the government eliminate them, because it's just human abuse. We don't supply hot water, and we charge extra for gas. I ask the government to take into account the position of the Supreme Council, and I hope that the decision will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u148	Yes, Yuri Carmazin, prepare for Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u149	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's block "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! Today we are discussing a very important task for each citizen of Ukraine. At a time when coal reform was supposed to take place, it was actually destroyed, as the debt of energy grew, gas supply and gas demand increased. Tell me, please, why do we have to believe in the word that, indeed, gas consumption is increasing, why should we believe in the word of the entire people of Ukraine? That's what the tariffs are for. I completely agree with Rudzkowski's previous speech about what happened today in the coal sector, and today we have these problems both in the heat plants and elsewhere in the energy sector. In fact, there was a failure in energy. And today they just don't want to call it one word. I would like to draw your attention to such a reform of the housing and utilities that took place in Odessa. I would like to be heard by the branch leaders. Perhaps twenty - seven regions are so many that Odessa cannot be seen. But in Odessa, the Zekys disappeared, the Mepi disappeared, and they created DEZ. It's kind of like a middleman who seems to be in over his head. They come and demand that you give the money for the predecessors of the debt. People were told that we would not issue subsidies and help until you paid off the debt. People in Odessa are being bullied. The creation of DEZES in Odessa was designed specifically to hide the ends in water from the filthy. Bodela and the company. The D.A. is silent, the Sandman in the palm of his hand caresses how well the people are robbed in Odessa, and silences your ministry. Also keep your mouth shut. Why are you silent? What is the fate of someone? So tell me we're in the middle of something. So let's move on. Dear National Deputies! Tomorrow the heating season begins. In a number of cities, elevators do not work. Look at the preparation, they gave you a tablet, operational data for the winter. The Odessa area in the buildings of a well - known hedge fund is 80 percent but ready. That's 80 percent with notes. And without notes, less than 50 percent of the readiness. In general, building housing funds is a huge problem. I'm going to the committee, let's solve it. And about the Housing Codex. The project you're proposing and proposing to the government is a project to take out citizens of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u150	Thank you. Honorable colleagues who have just completed the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and Poland, which has made very important decisions. Our colleagues from the Polish Republic are on the balcony. Let us welcome them and wish them fruitful work. Michael Schershun has the word. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Prepare Simonek Petra Mikolaiovich instead of Masenko according to the statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u151	Mikola Shershun. The faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine. Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, members of the government. There are many problems in the communal sphere. One of the main things is debt for services. The Debt Restructuring Act is imperfect, and then it does not work. And it needs to be processed immediately. Many of my colleagues spoke about this today. Moreover, if the population is to be accounted for for over 60 months, the debt of energy companies needs to be transferred to the same term. That would make sense. Today the government needs to prepare a law to guarantee financial compensation for housing and utility enterprises in the event of bankruptcy or privatization of consumer enterprises. The draft of such a document should be initiated by the State-owned Komongos of Ukraine, as well as by a number of other normative sectoral acts. Even now, there is a need for a law on the provision of heat to the population, new regulations on the use of heat, the provision of water services, heating, and the calculation of heat. It is urgent to adopt the order of tariffs for heat, the targeted programme for the development of municipal heat, the rules for the maintenance of housing and territories, and, finally, the archival state health rules and standards for drinking water. In the State Budget Act, it is necessary to provide for compensation for benefits on a professional basis, otherwise we will have a new debt hole in front of people. The same is true of the 2004 expenditure on tariff adjustment. This is a general problem, so it is not possible to translate it into local budgets. Now for housing reform. Yes, it's needed. But if there's not 22 million in the budget, you shouldn't talk about it. Let us just continue to live by the laws of 20 years old, according to the laws of a country that has long been gone. Another question is, Where is the new Housing Codex? He is the responsibility of all the professional authorities and the Supreme Council. However, no one is responsible for the use and security of state housing. I think the government would have to create an appropriate government inspection that would be sufficient. And the last. Five years ago, the National Green Health Program of the Dniper Basin and the improvement of drinking water quality was adopted. And this program has never really been funded. In the meantime, ask the doctors what is flowing from our taps today. That's terrible. If we don't allocate funds to this program next year, to the rest of the crisis consciously, I emphasize, we will deliberately add environmental costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u152	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, a faction of Communists, and we will conclude. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I want to say right now that the faction of communists does not share the government's optimism and confidence in preparing housing and utilities to work in the fall-winter period. We Communists have repeatedly taken the initiative to consider this issue, but unfortunately there is virtually nothing done to dramatically change the situation in this very important field of life. What are the causes of the crisis? First of all, and this is what we need to take into account today, the core funds over the last 10 to 12 years, the years of independence, the years of independence, they don't update, their technological wearout is over 90 percent. That's all the government's confidence in what's going on in the field. In most utilities, equipment and equipment are in emergency condition, and a third of boilers have been in operation for more than 20 years. Such equipment requires, not repair and reconstruction, but complete replacement. At the same time, the cost of housing repairs in comparison with 1991 was reduced by nearly 17 times. Substitutes require hundreds of thousands of miles of pipes of water and heat. The situation is that each area can experience technological catastrophes each year. Only in order to do the most basic repairs and reconstruction work, 800 million dollars must be allocated immediately. An extremely tense situation took place in the Donetsk region of Luhansk. Without adequate financial security, nearly 13 million square meters of housing in the Donetsk region, 350 nomads, 3,000 miles [3,000 km] of water and sewerage networks. Not a better situation in general in Ukraine. It's different. The situation remains catastrophic at heat stations, with 96 percent of the equipment working. As of September 1, this year, only 44 of the 65 - percent power grids have been repaired. To accumulate 3 million tons of coal by November 1st, you'll need one and a half billion dollars. This is again a problem of problems and this has to do with Ukraine’s budget for the following year. Third. The Cabinet of Ministers, in my opinion, is running a shameful policy, a price policy, in the residential sector. Most prices and tariffs are not economically sound, and they are based on excessive standards. Similar facts were established with the participation of Communist MPs of all levels in Herson, Odessa, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, Kiev and other areas where tariffs rose by 5-20 percent unwarranted. The people of Ukraine cannot understand why the President of Ukraine used the Constitutional Court to repeal the Law, which was adopted by the Communists on a moratorium on the increase in housing and utilities tariffs. Practically, the poverty of the people of Ukraine is taking place, and 30 percent of the citizens in general have testified that they lack the income of the family only for food. These are the results of reforms. What do we think we should do? First. Taking the necessary funds from the contingency fund and believing that health, family status, and light in each home today are a national problem. It's different. The Cabinet of Ministers, in our view, needs to develop urgent measures for a comprehensive solution to housing problems. The 2004 funding is necessary for the implementation of capital repairs. Next. The introduction of a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services next year. And third, as a necessary ingredient, it's a hard policy to pay wages and wages at the right time. These specific measures can, in the first place, help our citizens in this very difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u154	Thank you. Time's up. Please turn on the Microphone of the People's Deputy Shepetin. The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] I'm out of procedure. Is It With a Motive?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u155	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputy Shepetin, the Social Democratic Party, is united. I would like to ask, given that there have been two statements by the Communist Party and that the two-minute deadline has been extended, to allow my next statement to be extended by three minutes and to give the floor to the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u156	Well, if you'd like to step out of the procedure, please. I'm giving the people who signed up. Please speak. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u157	I said, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to give the floor to the three-minute stand of the faction of the Social Democratic United Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u158	One minute, please, from the procedure, if you please. From the rostrum, or there--please, I say, either here or from the rostrum. One minute, please. Dear colleagues! Another 19 people were enrolled. The time, as you can see, is running out. The National MP, Shepetin, asked for a procedure. Please, for reasons, speak, speak. Nineteen people have yet to come forward. Please, you're supposed to be performing. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u159	I would like to say that those statements referred to the government's shortcomings in preparing for the winter. But if they're still standing in those positions that Minpalevenergo and Holdingcomunchosis are responsible for everything, no one else. Then the problems will only accumulate. The Supreme Council needs work. There are now up to 80 laws in the Supreme Council that need to be considered as a matter of priority. A law such as the approval of the State Reform Program and the Year has been passed. Housing and Utilities, Housing Code on the Heat of Human Settlements. We need to consider and approve these bills in the first place.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u160	You've got everything, haven't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues, consideration of the state of preparation for work during the fall-winter period 2003-2004 of thermal facilities and the exploitation of heat distribution, energy supplies and the state of reform of thermal tariffs have been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. I would just like to emphasize by summarizing the government's day that we're in a warm environment. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? In a warm environment, we had a practical exchange of kindnesses that did not correspond to the situation in those areas, in those directions, in the areas that we discussed today on Government Day. I think we can say, if we don't have to do anything, we need to talk about reforms. This relieves responsibility for a particular state of affairs in a particular area. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the draft documents that are being submitted, to my deep conviction, I think they will be supported, by this position, the Supreme Council, does not correspond to the state of things in those directions, in those areas, in those areas that we have just talked about. I'd like to ask the committees, taking this into account, to finalize the draft regulations so that they can respond to the situation and facilitate the mobilization of the government's activities. Otherwise, there is no need for us to spend more days in government with such key, painful, sinister problems. Information is being announced, or we are going to listen to information about a situation involving the construction of a Russian hydrotechnological building in the Kerchny Strait. We agreed that we would listen to the relevant leaders. This is former Deputy Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, Shatkovsky Petr Mikolaiovich, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Motsik Alexander Fedorovich, Minister of Environmental Protection of Polakov Sergey Vasilovich, and Head of the State Border Service. Up to seven minutes each for information, as we agreed. Is there no objection? Please. Shatkovsky Peter Mikolaiovich, First Deputy Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. I would like to inform you that there are no first managers for objective reasons. Including Radchenka Vladimir Ivanovich, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, and Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is in a foreign assignment. Thus, he is represented by the deputy minister, Mozik Alexander, who leads the matter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u161	Thank you. Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Departments of Foreign Affairs, Ecology, and the State’s Foreign Service will inform you in detail about the situation. I'm just going to stop at the key aspects of the problem. First of all, I would like to inform you that from the beginning of the exacerbation of the situation as a result of the unilateral conduct of the Russian Federation, I stress, engineering and construction work in the Kerchen Strait on the embankment of the dam in the direction of the Ukrainian island of Kos Tuzla, the National Security and Defence Council, together with relevant intelligence, and primarily with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, have actively participated in the development of an anti-crisis response mechanism and the coordination of the actions of the relevant authorities with a view to preventing harm to the interests of the State. Taking into account the high level of threat to Ukraine’s national interests, a national security and defence workshop was held on October 6, this year. Keeping in mind that the problem that has arisen will find understanding on the part of the Russian side and will be resolved in a spirit of good neighbourliness and mutual respect with respect for the principles and norms of international law and, of course, bilateral agreements, an appropriate response mechanism has been developed during the meeting in the first place. On the basis of the decisions of the Security and Defence Council on the same day, the relevant ministries, departments and governments of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea received a number of mandates to minimize threats and neutralize possible negative consequences. In addition to the diplomatic efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Border Service to find out the issues surrounding the construction and to halt further unilateral activities by the Russian side, the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council held talks with the leadership of the Security and Defence Council of the Russian Federation. During these negotiations, concern was expressed by the Ukrainian side over the situation in the Kerchny Strait. It was stressed that in no way should bilateral relations be allowed to grow, including strong opposition and the proposal to continue resolving the issue through negotiations. It is emphasized that officials of the security and defence apparatus, representatives of other state authorities, have been particularly stressed that such actions by the Russian side can be a dangerous precedent when important issues such as maritime delimitation may be resolved by one person. As you can see, apart from the threat of territorial integrity and the sovereignty of Ukraine, doing bulkwork can also lead to the natural dispersion of the island of Kosa Tuzla, because the construction of a dam in this city will lead to a disruption of the hydrological regime of the Strait, the isolation and subsequent turmoil of the Gulf of Taman, as well as unforeseen changes in the ecosystems of the Azov and Black Seas. As he analyzed the information found at the National Security and Defence Council's Apparatus, when he was in a state of emergency, he personally found that the actions of executive authorities, executive authorities, should continue to be active, as there is still a problem today, well, and I am counting on the legislators to respond to you, your esteemed colleagues. I hope that your decision, or application to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, including the actions of the relevant ministries and authorities, will allow you to find a civilized solution to the situation that has arisen with our strategic partner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u162	Thank you, sit down, please. Calmly, calmly, dear colleagues, we made a deal. I am. Everybody calm down. Motzik, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Have a seat, please. Peter Mikolaiovich, please sit down. I want you again. I've told you, my dear colleagues, I want to do it again. Well, you're civilized people, today's holiday, I'll give you, for God's sake, but you're believers, don't shout! I want to say again that I've informed you all of the decisions of the Conciliation Board, there were no objections on your part, you've all been silent. Now we'll listen to the information, vote, we'll talk all day. No questions, please. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Let me first touch on the actual side of today’s events in the Kerchen Strait and introduce you to the steps taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this regard and take a closer look at the legal principles of Ukraine’s position. As we have already reported, since September 29, the Russian Federation has launched large-scale unilateral construction activities in the Kerchen Strait of a dam with the aim of linking the territory of Ukrainian territory, Kos Tuzla, with the Russian coast of the Taman Peninsula. Near the area where construction works are carried out, the Ukrainian-Russian state border passes. The Cordon in the Kerchen Strait was established back in the Soviet Union. Immediately after receiving information on the construction of the dam, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took urgent steps to determine the situation and to stop the construction. On September 30, Ukraine’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs called for a temporary trusted Russia, which was given a corresponding note. On October 2, Moscow held consultations at the level of deputy ministers of foreign affairs in two countries, in which the Russian side, after referring to the lack of information, was unable to answer questions about the construction of the dam and the final objective of the building. Another note, with a reminder of the route of the state border of Ukraine and the requirement to stop the construction, was transmitted to the Embassy of the Russian Federation on October 4. We have repeatedly stated that any unilateral work carried out by the Russian Federation from the construction of the dam will in no way have an impact on the passage of the existing Ukrainian-Russian border through the Kerchen Strait. However, no official reaction from the Russian side was received, and the officials of the Russian Federation avoided providing explanations and any information. In view of the situation, on October 6, Moscow received an urgent visit from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Constantine Grishchenko, who held a series of meetings with senior officials of the Russian Federation, including the head of government, the Head of State Duma, the Secretary of the Security Council and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia. Our main thesis in the course of these meetings was to stop the construction of the dam and to continue to refrain from actions that could potentially damage Ukraine's sovereignty, to part of its territory, and to develop Ukrainian-Russian relations. In the course of the negotiations, the Russian side finally made a commitment not to violate existing contractual obligations of the parties and, therefore, not to move construction along the interstate Ukrainian - Russian border, which flows east of Tuzla. In addition, we were informed that these hydrotechnical works are being done to restore the coastline of the Taman Peninsula, which was said to have been affected by environmental imbalances. Foreign affairs of Ukraine and the Russian Federation have reached agreement on the need for an urgent solution to the issue in order to relieve the tension and to prevent the negative impact of the situation on the development of Ukrainian-Russian relations. In particular, on our proposal, it was agreed to take this issue under the personal control of the heads of the external political authorities of Ukraine and the Russian Federation and to hold a bilateral meeting this month at the level of ministers in Kiev with the aim of resolving it in the strictest possible terms. On October 9, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine received a note from the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirming the above position of the Russian Federation. Unfortunately, despite the talks, repeated appeals and appeals by the Russian Federation to the Ukrainian side, translating responsibility for disagreement with the Ukrainian side into construction work on the local authorities of Russia, the construction of the dam continues. Obviously, the Russian Federation wants to use the building of a dam to influence Ukraine in the course of a two - way negotiation process on the status of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait. Ukraine is known to insist on the separation of the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait from the state border to the internal waters of Ukraine and Russia. Instead, Russia is of the view that it is appropriate to leave the Azov Sea and the Kerchny Strait without distinction in sharing. In the event that Ukraine insists, it is willing to agree only to the delimitation of the bottom of the Azov Sea without also dividing the waters of the Kerchen Strait. In our view, trying to do so on the part of our neighboring State will only hinder further negotiations. Taking into account the evolution of the situation. Yesterday, October 13, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent another note to the Russian side, requesting that the coordinates of the completion point of the dam be reported and that requested the Russian Federation to refrain from actions that could lead to a violation of the state border of Ukraine. Yesterday, the Ambassador of Ukraine to the Russian Federation, Mikola Biloblotsky, arrived in Krasnodar to take action in the city to resolve the problem. Dear National Deputies! Now I would like to take a brief look at the formal legal side of this issue and define the legal principles from which we are going to define Ukraine's position in the situation that has arisen. The hair of Tuzla is located in the Kerchny Strait, previously connected to the land, with the Taman Peninsula. However, in 1925 a beam was formed after a severe storm, and Tuzla became an island. According to the decree of the Supreme Council of RFSR of January 7, 1941, the island of Tuzla was transferred from the Thyruk region of the Krasnodar region to the then Crimean A.R.R.R., and in 1954 the Crimean Peninsula was transferred by order of the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union. In 1973, according to the laws of the USSR in the Kerchen Strait, the administrative border line between the USSR and the RFSR was delimited, the status of which in legal terms was no different from that of the administrative border between the two then Soviet republics on land. The relevant documents and delimitation maps were duly signed by the deputy heads of the Crimean region and the Krasnodar region. So all of these legislations were adopted by the legitimate authorities of the state of the two republics and the Soviet Union, which had appropriate powers under the legislation of the Soviet Union. The Ukrainian-Russian border line was repeatedly confirmed by a series of bilateral treaties, starting with the treaty of 19 November 1990, in article 6 of which high contracting parties undertook to recognize and respect each other's territorial integrity within existing borders within the Soviet Union. These commitments were further confirmed and in the agreement on further development of interstate relations of June 23, 1991, and in the Great Agreement of May 31, 1997. Moreover, the legal status of the SND borders was determined by the agreement on the creation of a SND of December 8, 1991, in article 5 of which the parties were obliged to recognize and respect the territorial integrity and integrity of existing borders within a cooperative framework. In conclusion, I would like to say that there is no doubt at present that the existing border in the Kerchen Strait is legitimate and in terms of international law and bilateral Ukrainian-Russian obligations, and in terms of the internal legislation of both countries. I would also like to add that, according to international law and practice, any work on the state border can only be done with the consent of the two neighbouring States. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that, pursuant to article 5 of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian State Border of 28 January 2003, the regulation of matters relating to adjacent maritime space is negotiated under international law between the parties. My position is based on a documentary legal basis and we are ready to defend it in any international institution, including the courts. At the same time, today, despite the fact that we have such a situation in the Kerchny Strait, we have no reason to talk about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u163	How much longer do you need? _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u164	Please. _____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ At the same time, today, despite the situation in the Kerchen Strait, we have no reason to talk about the violation by the Russian side of its obligation to respect the territorial integrity and integrity of the state border of Ukraine. We hope that common sense will prevail and that the situation in the Kerchen Strait will be resolved on a bilateral basis, based on the strategic nature of Ukrainian-Russian relations. We are going out and forth from the fact that the Ukrainian border will not be breached and we will do our utmost to do so. At the same time, in the event of the worst of events, we are prepared to use the entire arsenal of international law-based remedies to protect our territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u165	Thank you. Minister of Environmental Protection of Ukraine Polakov Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u166	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! We work together on these issues with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs actively. We also have a lot of concern about what's going on, because these issues that have now arisen, they have consequences, in our view, in environmental terms, very harsh in the future. That's why we're also proposing to the MCS, and we've already suggested inviting the Russian side to provide, under international law, environmental expertise on the construction of this dam. As international organizations require us to do, when we build things in border areas, in places or in areas or in areas of the year, or in areas of the sea, so that we can prove the ecological safety of these objects. I hope that this expertise is what we are going to be. We have the right to receive from the Russian side. The Kerchen Strait and especially the northern part of it have the most fishing significance in the Azoo Black Sea Basin for many species of fish that carry out sudden non-rest winter migrations from the Azov Sea to the Black Sea and in the reverse direction. The extent of industrial fishing in the Azov and eastern parts of the Black Seas of Hamsa, Pelengasa, ostrinia, herdsmen, and drums depends on how many of them pass through the flow of migration. In addition to the fish species listed above, ostrich, bull, moose, sargan, and others migrate through the stream. The construction of a dam between the Taman Peninsula and the middle hair will disrupt the migration of the above-mentioned fish species, especially the Asian and Black Sea settlers. In addition, a hydrogeological regime in the Kerchen Strait is being disrupted, which can lead to isolation, gradual confusion of the Gulf of Tamana, which is the site. I'll tell you what's already been said about 80 years ago this hair, when it was a big storm, was washed away. And in 80 years, nothing happened. So I want to show you the Taman Peninsula, this is where the dam is now being built. It's the hair or the island of Tuzla, and we're counting that it's still an island, because there's been no more changes and there's no more Titanic in time. And if this is connected, we can see with you that in the Azov Seawaterwater, what is going to happen is what is going to happen is going to disrupt the ecological situation throughout the entire Black Sea. That is why we require a certain ecological conclusion and environmental expertise. As a whole, the environmental consequences of building a dam in the Kerchen Strait cannot be assessed now without scientific justification for the conduct by the Ukrainian professional organizations and the State Environmental Expertise, as I said. I hope that this cooperation should be on both the side of Russia and on the side of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u167	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, I ask your permission to continue for 15 minutes in the morning so that we can complete our consideration of this matter. [[We're not done yet, just a minute.]] The head of the State Foreign Service with the information will speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u168	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! I inform you of the State Border Service’s actions in connection with the situation in the Kerchny Strait. On September 28, we received information that the construction of a dam fortifying the Russian coast of the Ottoman Peninsula was actually designed to connect it with the Ukrainian island of Tuzla. During the next two days, we received a comprehensive confirmation of this information, a photo, a video document of the progress of maritime security, and a cross-border aviation. The situation was promptly reported to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Supreme Council and the Government. The state-border service was immediately transferred to the enhanced protection of the Azoo-Black Sea regional government border, and the operations of the border authorities were activated in the Kerchen direction. The island of Tuzla has a reinforced border unit, which is now a state-of-the-art border fence and is equipped with radio, lighting, engineering, automobiles, and communications equipment. Over the past two weeks, we have continued to monitor the situation in the Kerchny Strait region and to inform government authorities, including the Supreme Council’s professional committees, about changes in relation to the matter. The State Border Service from the first day of receiving the information is using a set of measures, the content of which is determined by the respective orders of the President of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine, and our plans are clarified daily by the Prime Minister of our State. In order to secure the state border regime, according to the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, there are clearly marked attributes of the sovereignty of Ukraine on the island of Tuzla, so that no one doubts the Ukrainian ownership of the island. To this end, our Mini-Defense initiative took an air and photo shoot of the Kerchny Strait area and refined the line's coordinates. In the interaction of hydrogeographic units of the Ministry of Transport, special buoys mark the passage of the state border in the area. The island has state symbols: a flag with the National flag of Ukraine and a border sign, information shields with the inscription "Ukraine", as well as elements of the landmark, inscriptions "The State Border Service of Ukraine", "The Border Stop of the Tusla". During this time, efforts are being made to protect the border. For the overall coordination of actions in the Kerchny Strait area, an operational group of the State Border Service, led by the first deputy, has been organized, and a decision has been taken to apply the resources provided: preventive measures and measures to change the crossing of the state border. Border security in the Tuzla area is carried out on land by daytime visual, radio, radio, patrol, check the coastline, and by ship patrols and seaboats. All the authorities, the special forces, the technology, the material resources, are put into action. In order to respond properly, sufficient reserves have been created, there is a maritime security force group in the area, aviation units are active in monitoring the situation, and there are foreign representatives of Ukraine active in the area. This activity is in constant harmony with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I regularly communicate with the head of the Russian FSB Border Service, have regular phone communication and correspondence. So today, there is another meeting in Novorosian, between the head of the Azoo-Black Sea Regional Authority of the State Border Service of Ukraine and the head of the North Caucasus Regional Authority of the border service of Russia. Dear National Deputies! In line with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the border guards will be determined to carry out their duties and take all necessary measures to ensure Ukraine’s territorial integrity in accordance with current legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u169	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's exchange our thoughts. I would ask very briefly, as in procedural matters. Please sign up. Well, we agreed, you did well, by 14.15 we'll have the matter concluded. I asked you, you confirmed. Ten minutes left. Please sign in. Please sign up. Enlighten the National Deputy of the Holy, please. None. Malinovsky Alexei Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u170	Alexei Malinowski, a faction of socialists. Please pass the word to Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u171	Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u172	Yuri Lucenko, socialist faction of the Supreme Council Dear chairman, distinguished radio listeners. Our faction today decided at the meeting that this situation concerns us as well as all Ukrainian citizens. Our principle is that there is no extra land in Ukraine. But in doing so, we're against politicizing the process, against turning this situation into a new division or division of the Black Sea fleet, which we've been sharing for several years, and then it turns out that no one really needs it, and only politicians needed it. We have one basic concern: where is the head of the National Security Council of Ukraine, Mr. Kuchma, where the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Mr. Kuchma, what does he think of this situation? And one more question. That he promised Mr. Putin when he met him on the island of Biryuch. We think it's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u173	Thank you. Microphone. Please, Vadim Gurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u174	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I've listened very carefully to four representatives of the government, and I have this, well, basic human question: What, we don't have any intelligence: technical, economic? Because it's not just a pile of junk, there's a thousand people working, because it's got to be some kind of project, and it's got to be known, it's our intelligence, if it even exists. As a result, a complex hydrotechnical facility is now being built. And after two and a half miles of construction, we woke up. So maybe we're sleeping on other things? Well, someone should ask that question. But, in principle, the stock of my mind is that if you're asleep, you can't sleep anymore. Because we're going to sleep it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u175	Igor Ostrash, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u176	Mr. Chairman, there are two draft rulings on this issue. I'd like to ask, I'm also one of them, and I'd like to give me three minutes about the text of the ruling. And there's a draft decree by Gavrish. And then we could make decisions about voting, say tomorrow or the day after.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u177	Well, please, come on, talk, talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u178	So I would like to say that we really have an unprecedented case in our bilateral relationships. And I'm convinced that a decision by the Russian side was made, not by local authority, not for the purpose of protecting the environment, but by one person who everyone knows well that only he could make such a decision is the President of the Russian Federation. It is a pity that our President, who is quite often on the phone with the President next door, has, unfortunately, not responded to this situation so far. Although, I think that's what the President should do first. We also talk very little about the economic aspects of this problem. I'd like to go to our voters, because it's about hundreds of millions of dollars, which is made by the Kerchnian steamship on the passage of ships, and it's about huge stocks of Ukrainian fish, and it's about oil and gas exploration. And so, really, this is a very serious problem for our state. I would like to conclude by saying that I am the author of the decree. But in view of the fact that we have come to the only conclusion, I withdraw my decision and ask for the support of the joint decision made by the deputies Ostrash, Matthew, Gabriels, and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u179	Thank you. Stanislaw Phydenko will pass on to Peter Simone, please. Kadenuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u180	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ukraine's company, coming out of our national interests and the need to develop and strengthen strategic relations with the Russian Federation, calls upon all the political forces represented here in the Supreme Council, outside of it, in our country, to refrain from political speculation about building a dam in the Kerchen Strait. Based on the territorial integrity and inviolability of Ukraine’s borders, we suggest that the Ukrainian and Russian sides at political and export levels find out the situation on the basis of fundamental principles. We also call on all the political parties and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take a balanced approach to solving the problems of developing the relationship between Ukraine and Russia on the basis of the fundamental interests of our peoples and in accordance with international law. And I think that this could be the end of the information, the question that we're listening to, and the task of the executive authority to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u181	Leonid Kadenuk. You don't? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u182	Please pass the word to Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u183	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u184	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear colleagues! I want to inform you about the work our delegation in Rome has been doing today, which has returned from the OSCE seminar on the security of the Mediterranean. There the Ukrainian delegation made a statement telling European parliamentarians what the Russian side was doing and the provocation it had made against our state. I must say, Sir Simonenko, that the Russians, who spoke later, did not speak a word about the problem, pretending to be local authorities. And so many European parliamentarians then asked, "Did the process of disintegration of executive power in Russia reach such a limit that local authorities decide how to break interstate agreements?" The Ukrainian delegation offered to invite OSCE observers to the area of conflict in Ukraine, the Crimean Peninsula, so that the important organization could come to an appropriate conclusion later. In addition, I would like to say that many members of the OSCE have done so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u185	Thank you. Leukyanko I'm telling you again, I see who's talking. Calm down. A minute 17 is the same as Simonenko. Please, Leveko Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u186	Ukrainian Republican Sobor Party, Yulia Timoshenko Block. First. I want to tell the head of the Communist Party of Simonek that the problem of national territory is actually the issue of the Supreme Council. So the Supreme Council has to do this. It's different. Regarding the decision that is proposed, I think it is very weak and actually the Republican Party has taken its project, which is more radical, and this is the minimum that has to be approved. Finally, the third. We know that Russia as an imperialist state is always. She was very sudden and unconscious, so in 1918-19, she fought the Ukrainian People's Republic three times, and now we see this impudence in action. That's why I'm addressing the head of our foreign committee. Why did they not respond when Moldova took part of our territory to the power station? Finally, now I would like to say that the Republican Party has announced to its members a congregation of its teams and assistance to the foreign service, and we want to work together to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u187	Thank you. Microphone. Yes, Viacheslav Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u188	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! From the performance of the high officials, it is only one thing that they are all negotiating with their colleagues, and those colleagues, as they were building the dam, are continuing to build it. So it seems to me that the information of everyone, without exception the executive heads that we have heard today, cannot withstand any criticism. They found that the Russians were continuing to build a dam. It's different. The Supreme Council should approve the application made today. Thirdly, if Russia is going to build a dam after that, Ukraine should go to unilateral delimitation and demarcation of its maritime border. Fourth. The Supreme Council should set up a commission headed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, which would conduct continuous monitoring of the situation in the conflict area near Tuzla. I think Vladimir Mikhailovich, if you help Head of State to resolve this situation, Ukraine will only say thank you very much. Well, I'm fourth. I propose to hold an extended meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Friendship Group between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. We have dozens of deputies there, most of them part of the left-hand faction. I don't understand how the water is there, that Russia is constantly oppressing us. Maybe we should have this friendship.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have one minute! With the procedure, Lucenko, please. I'm just saying again, you don't have to take it out loud. It's gonna be okay. Please don't shout!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u190	Lucenko. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I understand that you are not pleased to hear this, perhaps from an old memory, but I will continue with Kuchma. I wonder where the head of state is in this situation. Until now he'll be there with Muammar Qaddafi, another world race, to exchange medals, the only thing he's got left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u191	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u192	In every normal state -- don't thank me, there's a regulation -- every normal state of security knows about this situation early, and we could stop this situation early. If it were obvious and logical, Kuchma did not promise, did not give any good to all these jobs before he met on the island of Birch. I want to hear from Parliament's rostrum information on the oral arrangements between our two presidents. I want to hear the point of view of the head of state and the head of the Security Council, and I want him to say whether there's an extra land in Ukraine or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-14-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, an agreed draft statement has been submitted, but after that. One minute, dear fellows, time is up! Calm down, please. I'll read the application. Calm down. Dear colleagues, don't be abusing yourself. I would like to say once again, the draft statement submitted, agreed upon, is the only one, but it's in line with the proposals of the National MP, the leader of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz. She's okay and she's okay. I'll read it, please listen carefully. Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the events in the Kerchny Strait Please listen carefully. “The latest developments in the Kerchen Strait situation have raised serious concerns in Ukrainian society. Construction by the Russian side of the hydrotechnical building in the direction of the Ukrainian island of Tuzla begins without prior notice and agreement with the relevant Ukrainian authorities may violate the spirit of good-neighbourly relations between Ukraine and the Russian Federation. The construction of a hydrotechnological facility in the Kerchen Strait can complicate the delimitation process in the Azov Sea, endangering unforeseeable environmental consequences, which neither Russia nor Ukraine can remain. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls upon the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation to intervene in the situation with a view to immediately halting any unilateral action that conflicts with the principles of good-neighbourliness and the spirit of strategic partnership between our States and may be aimed at violating the sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity. In our common interests, to solve the problems of Ukrainian-Russian relations in the spirit of cooperation, trust and mutual respect, to preserve traditionally friendly relations among our peoples. If the work mentioned in the Kerchen Strait continues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reserves the right to initiate all the prescribed rules of international law, measures to preserve the sovereignty of the State over its territory.” A normal application? I'm voting on the acceptance of a statement that I've just heard from. Please vote. Please vote. Please vote, I won't take your word for it. Please vote. I'm not. Calm down. For -250 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Let's get back to work at 4:00.
