ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like your honors to prepare for registration. Please take your seats with your respectable colleagues. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:03:02]] Registered -428 There are 428 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputies of Ukraine, Ivan Stepanovich, Polishchuk Kiril Ananiyovich and Hari Vasil Grigorovovich. Let us welcome them and wish them good health and success in their parliamentary activities. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Ukrainian Rules, I hereby announce the withdrawal from the MP group "The People's Government" of Polishchuk Kiril Ananiyovich. Ladies and gentlemen, today is our day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. You have a list of questions. First question. Draft decree on the order of the day of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that at the Conciliation Board meeting, we discussed this issue. Committees, factions, and groups were invited to make their own proposals. Taking into account the suggestions of the discussion that took place on Tuesday, we worked part - time. They included questions that did not raise objections on the part of any of the MPs and factions. So we have every reason to put to the vote a draft decree on the order of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fourth call for adoption as a whole. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[10:05:07]] For 263 It's been decided. Dear National Deputies! At the request of two factions, may I have your attention? At the request of two factions, the July Timoshenko bloc and the Socialist Party of Ukraine, a 30 - minute break is announced. I ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to meet in the Cabinet of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! We had just had a break, which was proposed by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Yulia Timoshenko bloc regarding the consideration of two bills today. It's about the Criminal Procedure Code to transfer it. We agreed that when we approach this issue, Hennaday Andriyovich will inform us of the state of his preparation, and we will also listen to the committee head and then we will obviously decide to move his consideration to a week so that everyone can get to know more. We've also discussed the issue of the draft privatisation bill for 2003-2008, and we've agreed on the faction leaders to propose to you to postpone the consideration of this issue by working on it accordingly. In addition, it was pointed out that bills, especially comparative tables, were given to MPs in a timely manner. They can't get to know them. I would ask the Secretariat and the faction leaders, if you will excuse me, to bring this to the attention of the committee leaders so that they will certainly comply with the requirements of the Rules. These are the basic positions that we were talking about. Did I say Julia Volodymyrna? Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to work. A draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy, Larin, as a member of the European Integration Committee is under consideration. Valentin Grigorovich Matthew, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! To carry out the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council, the committee considered the election of the national MP, Larin. Sergei Mikolaiovich is a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on European Integration. Larin is elected Ukrainian National Deputy in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the political parties for Ukraine's only! and took an oath, as you remember, on March 17, this year. The statement presented to our committee is accepted by the head of the profile committee. The computational quota of the faction, which includes Larin, is two, and the European Integration Committee of the above-mentioned parliamentary faction has a national deputy. Larina's statement, as I said, supports the committee's leadership, and therefore, taking into account the above, the committee proposes to support the application and adopt the Supreme Council's decision to elect a national MP, Larin, as a member of the Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u4	I am voting on the draft bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Larin as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. Please vote. [[10:58:41]] For 337 Decision taken. A draft decree on the election of the Ukrainian national deputy Kulczycka as a member of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons is being announced for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, on September 3, the Committee also reviewed the application for the election of the National MP of the Kulčick Committee of the Supreme Council in the matter of pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons. The Central Election Commission registered him on June 24, this year as a national deputy, also elected in a multi-mandatory state-run constituency district from the "Ukrainian" bloc. He's also a member of this MP faction. The elected MP took an oath on July 1, this year. The application for membership of the above - mentioned committee is supported by the head of the Zibenko Committee of Profiles, Peter Stepanovich. The computational quota of the faction, which today includes Mikola Georgievic, is 4.3, and in the above mentioned committee, as I said, only one national MP is working from this MP. Taking this into account, the committee makes a proposal to support the application of the People’s Deputy of Culchinsky and to accept the appropriate decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u6	I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for pensioners, veterans and disabled persons. Please vote. [[11:00:52]] For 413 Decision taken. A draft Decree on the Ukrainian National MP Stanecki, a member of the Committee on Social Policy, is being announced for consideration. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u7	The Rules Committee, honourable colleagues, also discussed the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Stanislavovich, to the mentioned committee. On March 17, this year, the Central Election Commission registered with a national deputy, also elected in a multi-mandatory national constituency from the "For the One Ukraine" political party bloc. It is now part of a parliamentary faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Urban Ukraine". The calculated quota of this fraction is 1.8, and there is not one of the representatives of this faction in the above committee today. In view of the foregoing, the committee proposes to support our colleague’s application and to accept the relevant decision of the Supreme Council on the election of the National MP of the Static Committee for Social Policy and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u8	I put to the vote the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the election of the Ukrainian People's Deputy as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour" Please vote. [[11:02:51]] For 336 Decision taken. We are hearing questions about the statement by the Ukrainian MP Chechel about his election as a member of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. Please, Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, to carry out the commission of the Head of the Supreme Council, the committee examined the documents presented regarding the election of the national deputy, Mr. The Central Election Commission registered him with the Ukrainian National Deputy, elected after a multi-mandatory national constituency, and today he is a member of the "Our Ukraine" MP. He made an oath, as you recall, on April 1st of this year. The statement made by the national deputy is supported by the head of the profiling committee. The calculated quota for our Ukrainian deputy faction at the Agrarian Affairs Committee is 4.3, and the Committee, today, on agrarian politics and land relations, is already working on one and a half times as many factions of the faction as it is set by the quota. Therefore, in the light of the foregoing, the Committee suggests that the Supreme Council not support the application for the election of the Chechel People's Deputy as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! Who is it to elect the national deputy, Mr. Cecilia Josephovich, to be a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations? There's a vote coming. [[11:05:17]] For 321 Decisions are made in a positive way. Dear National Deputies! A draft Ordinance on Ukrainian Government Day is being announced in October 2003 to comply with the requirements of environmental legislation in Ukraine’s drug use-related activities. Sergei Shevchuk. Turn on the microphone. Out of procedure, huh? Gennady Rudenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u11	Sergey Shevchuk, NDP faction. Dear National Deputies! Our faction expresses surprise and misunderstanding that this issue is now put to the vote at all. Everyone knows that the Ministry of Ecology is a structure headed by a new minister, reminds us that until now the state of the Ministry has not been approved. In general, it is suggested that it be divided into several structures that are wrong. Therefore, the NDP faction believes that the decision to set up a special temporary commission should first be taken to deal with drug-related issues that we have asked three questions about in the last session. The Commission should work on the materials and only then consider on the day of the government of Ukraine. Otherwise we can say that it's just an accelerated consideration to bring about an unprepared issue and thus hide the flaws that have really been revealed by the Council of National Security and Defence. I mean, we are absolutely against even the resolution of this matter and the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich Hare. From the procedure, please, Adam Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Excuse me, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u13	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Honorable colleagues and rapporteurs and national deputies! Understandably, when we get to know this list of issues that arise on Government Day or parliamentary hearings, no one will likely have a hand to vote against such sinister issues. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am addressing you and especially the leaders. to the representatives of the members of the Conciliation Board. Honorable Members of the Conciliation Council! I wonder what you're doing on the Conciliation Council. How do you consider the questions you are bringing to our discussion? Look, in October we have two days of government and two parliamentary hearings. In November we have to spend as many as 3 days of government, in December we have to hold as many as 3 parliamentary hearings! And here's another 3 or 4 or 5 questions are not specified when the date is set. So it turns out that on average we have to spend three days a month in government and three parliamentary hearings. I think the concordant council should regulate these issues and ask one question for one month, and the rest, either carry or find reconciliation, because we cannot vote in favour of these issues, and we cannot vote because we are overloaded and we are in this situation with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u14	Dear National Deputies! The Conciliation Council acts in a manner that will be done by every national MP, as our colleague, Adam Martinyuk, said. Since all questions are malicious, everyone believes that they should be considered, and hence, in the first place, the Conciliation Council has proposed that the members of the sessional room in the voting mode determine the problems that priority will be given. And I would like to reiterate that, according to the government day, we can spend once a month the government day of every second Tuesday. And on the day of government, there can be no more than two thematic, I emphasize, thematic issues. With regard to parliamentary hearings, we today need to establish a position on parliamentary hearings. There is a similar suggestion to regulate the matter. With this in mind, I would ask you to identify yourself in my attitude on matters of Government Day or parliamentary hearings. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u15	Dear national deputies, the problem of using nadr is very serious. Each of you knows that there is little order here, a lot of useful fossils, a lot of kinds of nadr are used in a non-licensive way, using technologies that do not lead to austerity. And that's why this problem is very relevant. If we listen to this, if we spend Government Day on this issue, at least we'll mark a very important problem for Ukraine. Because each one of you has to understand, everything is defined in the environment. In the natural environment, everything is defined as a mineral raw base. Or we use it to support economic growth today and to ensure the future for our children, or we close our eyes and not look at these problems in a more national way, but we look through the glasses of our corporate interests or some other interest. So the committee comes up with a proposal, given that the situation is quite complex and not only in the management plan, as Sergey Shevchuk says, breaking up the ministry, and in general in the use plan, the issue needs to be addressed on Government Day. So I'm asking for your support in addressing this issue. This is one of the key issues in the development of our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, before putting the draft resolution to the vote, I would like to remind you that in 14.10.2003 we are scheduled for the Government's Day to meet the requirements of legislation and improve it in order to ensure the development of sport, higher achievements and the preparation of national assembly teams for the elderly XXVIII of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2004. Now, dear fellows, I bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u17	No, no, Vladimir Mikhailovich, then there's an offer to move this to November. And we agree with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u18	There are others there for November.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u19	November. Yes. There are suggestions. So let's go to November, and we agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! I'll bet. Just a minute. WRITER IN THE ZALU [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u21	It's already scheduled for November, which is what we're going to do. And on November we can't bet, there are already committees and proposals. The offer, Adam Ivanovich, please Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! You can see that we can now accumulate a very large circle of questions for October, November, or December. I'm suggesting that there's no rush to these questions, so let's move them to the next Thursday. On Monday at the Conciliation Council, the leaders, especially the profile committees, I think they'll agree on what questions to leave behind. Because there's going to be a dozen questions today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u23	Rudzikowski, please, and we will vote. It'll be the same next Monday. Mikola Rudzkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u24	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, six months ago we agreed that in October we would listen to the question of creating a gas consortium. And somehow it's in our message of the day, look, first the question goes -- October, then November, and then, if you look at it, 3652 is the government's decree on October for the gas consortium. That's the question, if you're speaking in terms of registration, it's been going on for six months. Well, you can't make a note of the day like that. This clearly means that it will not be voted on. If voted, there will never be another. Volodymyr Mikhailovich must be put to the vote. We made a deal six months ago. You know, this is Ukraine's energy independence. I don't mind, the issue of ecology is important, it needs to be considered, but they're gonna take the pipe away, and then nothing will be done in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! I'm in line with coming, registering for voting draft decrees. The draft ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukrainian Government Day in October 2003 is number 3708. The essence of the question has just been reported by John Alexanderovich the Rabbit. [[11:14:51]] For 297 It's been decided. A draft decree on the Government Day of 14 October 2003 on the state of preparation for work during the autumn-winter period 2003-2004 on heat supply and exploitation, energy supply and the formation of heat tariffs is being announced. Reznik Igor Ivanovich. I just want to remind you that we already voted on the two issues in October.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Construction, Transport, Housing and Utilities of 2 July 2003 considered, at its meeting, information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of Supreme Council Regulation 390 of 26 December 2002 on the continuation of the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation on measures to provide heat to residential buildings, educational facilities, health care, culture and other social objects burning from centralized heating networks. An analysis of the situation showed that the previous heating season had been fairly stable, but there was a whole range of problems especially at its beginning. There are significant problems in the preparation of residential-communal enterprises and in 2003-04. This is primarily true of the fuel supply and the preparation of networks and equipment. As a result of the Committee’s consideration of the matter, a decision was made on the need for draft Supreme Council rulings on the Government Day of October 14, 2003. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u27	Given that we have already taken two decisions, I am voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the Government Day of Ukraine on October 14, 2003. This is document number 3708-1. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:16:56]] For 238. Decision taken. A draft decree on the Ukrainian Government Day of November 2003 on the state of the art and prospects for protecting Ukrainian cultural heritage and the history and culture of the Ukrainian people outside the country is under review. Mikhailo Vasilovich Kossov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! As you recall, last year we held parliamentary hearings on a similar subject, and they gave positive results at the Ministry of Culture to a government - created body that knows the settled issue. However, it is absolutely necessary to hold the Government Day. I think you know the state of culture in our country. Why go so far, such as the unique Klovsky Palace, which houses the unique museum of our capital, Kiev, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees that the Supreme Court is to be chosen and given to the Supreme Court. I have great respect for the Supreme Court, but I still think we should talk to the Cabinet on Government Day. We're already on our committee, here's Valeria Gabrielna, Stanislaw Seminovich, traveling around a lot of sights in Chernigovishte, Zaporozhye. It is intended to travel through Ukrainian castles, to examine the state of preservation, but without Government Day it is not possible to resolve this issue. So I would ask you to support the initiative that our committee is taking, as well as the national deputies, Stephen Bogdanovich Havrish, Tanjuk, and members of our committee. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u29	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u30	Alexandrovska, town of Harkov, faction of Communists. Mikhail Vasilevich, of course, we support the idea of holding such a day of government. This year, I and my pioneers traveled to Gogol’s places, where Gogol lived, to Cherkassassah, Canoe. And I was amazed that none of the museums we went to with the pioneers, with the compatriots, had any modern - day publications that spoke of these museums, all of which were published in 1986 - 87. So the question is, of course, relevant and must be seen. But aren't we even going after the matter in the Supreme Council? That's the fourth question that we're going to be voting on -- the day of the government -- when we have two plenary weeks. The issue of health is still under way. And today it's also a topical issue, today we don't have a heart surgery budget, and people are dying today, or they have to find 10,000 bracelets to pay for the operation. Maybe somehow we should plan our work differently? Maybe it's parliamentary hearings or open committee hearings, you know? Because I think, otherwise, in the Supreme Council Hall, it's going to be for a branch and there's not going to be any result. Let's do an open-ended review of the Committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u31	You know, at parliamentary hearings, we're making a decision that's recommended. If we spend Government Day, we'll have the government decide the issues you're talking about. But it's not lonely on this subject that I'm proposing to you, because, you see, what a huge problem now arises from the use of religious buildings that are in the use of religious communities. It's a huge problem, and I wouldn't ignore culture at the expense of something else. Although this is a health issue you are talking about, it is also very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u32	I put to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the day of the government of Ukraine in November 2003. This is 3555. [[11:21:50]] For 283 Decision taken. A draft decree on "On Day of the Government of Ukraine" was announced in November 2003 on the prevention of mortality and disability of the population as a result of cardiovascular and brain diseases. Polczyk Mikola Efremovich, please. That's the second question on Government Day for November of the month.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u33	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Cardiac and cardiovascular diseases are the main cause of the mortality and disability of the population of Ukraine. If you and I have reviewed the parliamentary hearings on tuberculosis and spoken 66 per hundred thousand people, then cardiovascular disease is 740 per 100,000 people. More than half of the population who die is dying of cardiovascular and cardiovascular diseases. Over 52 percent of these deaths are in the overall mortality pattern. In Ukraine, 175,000 people suffer a stroke each year. 50 percent die, 50 percent remain dependent on people with disabilities. If the situation today in health care and Ukraine is preserved for the next five years, 1 in 5 will die of a stroke, or 1 in 5 will remain a dependent disability. To date, all programs that are being adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers regarding health care, namely, cardiovascular diseases, are not being implemented and to this day no program has been adopted. I'd like to say that the warning of cardiovascular disease is not just a medical program, it's a state-wide program. Medical personnel can only provide help. No more than 10 percent depends on it. Much more important is the warning of cardiovascular, vascular and brain diseases, and it's cheaper and more effective. It can be said that the introduction of programs at the state level in the States, Sweden, has reduced disease, and especially mortality about tens of times. In this regard, honourable national MPs, I want your support to be spent at the national level on government's Day of Prevention of the Death and Disability of the Population as a result of cardiovascular, vascular and brain disease and to develop a programme in this regard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a draft Supreme Council Regulation on the Day of Government of Ukraine in November 2003. This is document number 3555-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u35	People's deputies, please. [[11:25:15]] For 232
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u36	Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on 4 November 2003 will be announced with the agenda of the Government of Ukraine: "The practice of providing citizens with information by government authorities and local self-government in Ukraine and European standards. Communicator Nicholas Tomenko, head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! We have quite a number of references on the committee today, mostly from the regions that apply to the following. Today, you know, we have the Citizens' Reference Act, the Information Act, a series of other laws. By the way, it's accepted and it's our warehouse. There have been appropriate presidential decrees regarding the organization of the work of citizens, the President's decrees on the openness of the local authorities, but so far there is a problem with the fact that the average citizen, journalist and even the local council's deputy cannot, not what is in time, but clearly and clearly get an answer to their request. To date, some local authorities have begun to keep secret data on birth and mortality in the regions, and they do not. They say that we have decisions that cannot be followed. We suggest that we analyze the entire legislative base, see how the normative basis for the decisions of the district administrations, the district administrations, conflict or conflict with this legislation, and get the situation out so that our citizens, if they turn, get a timely response. If journalists speak, they get the answer. But even deputies turn, they get the answer, and they know how local authorities and local self - government work. So there's a proposal to have this discussion and to solve it, and so we don't get hundreds of letters that no one knows what the local authorities are doing in the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u38	I am voting on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 November 2003 on the Government of Ukraine Day with the agenda "The practice of providing citizens with information by authorities of the state and local self-government in Ukraine and European standards". This is document number 4116. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:27:56]] For 204 The decision is not taken. The question is out. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day in January 2004 on the status of conservation of socio-cultural objects in the privatization process and the purpose of their use in the post-privatisation period is being announced. The reporter is the head of the Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna Special Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u39	Dear colleagues! People's deputies Semenyuk, Kirichenko, the members of the Special Monitoring Commission are reviewing a draft decree on the Government's January 13th Government Day on the status of conservation of socio-cultural objects in the process of privatization and their purpose in the post-privatization period. We are forced to make such an offer, and we have received support from both the Scientific and Experimental Department and the Committees of the Supreme Council on Culture and Spirituality, other committees to support this government day. The appeal is based on numerous appeals to the special control commission on the preservation of social cultural objects, including district councils, district councils, city councils, which today at many times call for clarification, and on the suggestion that such a social sphere, which is vital, must be preserved or transferred to municipal property. The situation is as follows. In the process of privatization of especially large enterprises, the social sphere should be transferred to municipal property. Often due to the lack of funds, the social sphere is transferred to the operational management of shareholders, various forms of organizations and those objects that are privatized for the purpose of preserving, maintaining and using object data. Often these objects are privatized, not even taking into account what has been transferred to the operational office. Given that big giants are now going to the company, big businesses that are the city's creators. And this is a social problem that can be a strain in such large cities and in small towns where the city is formed, yet the issue of preserving the social sphere, the social sphere that is vital in the area. And it is we, the members of the Committee of Kirichenko and Semenyuk, who make a proposal, and we are supported by other committees and the Scientific and Experimental Department on the conduct of such a Government Day, in order to understand the situation. This appeal was also based on the fact that many deputies from different political factions turn to the committee to preserve the social sphere. That is why we need to raise such a question today. I'd like to support you. Please support your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u40	I'm betting on a draft Supreme Council decree on "The Day of the Government of Ukraine" in January 2004. This is document number 4076. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:31:17]] For 230 Decision taken. A draft decree on Ukrainian Government Day on the concept of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine's gas transport system is being announced on October 7, 2003 and on parliamentary hearings on the principles for the further use of Ukraine's gas transport system on November 5, 2003. That's two separate questions, we're going to vote twice. But the report is one. The reporter is Alexander Mikolaiovich Goodima. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u41	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! In addition to the author group of people's deputies, Goodima, Rudzkowski, Martinenka, Oilynik and others, the Committee on Fuel and Energy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs asks you to support these two draft decisions both on the international consortium and on the principles for the further use of Ukraine's gas transport system. Regrettably, at the present time only the interministerial working group is dealing with this problem. This is about strategic interests, about the national interests of the state. And we believe that by holding parliamentary hearings on the principles of the use of Ukraine's gas transport system, we will be able to allow the government to take into account Parliament's intelligence in solving such a complex problem as the international gas consortium. But I, Mr. Head, with the decision of the committee, ask for the transcript to take into account that I support the committee, despite that discussion on the loading of government days in October and September, we ask for a correction that the date of the Government Day will certainly determine the Conciliation Council in order to change on November 2003. I've got it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! I'll put two proposals to the vote. The first is on Government Day, on this issue, October 7, 2003. And then we'll talk about parliamentary hearings. May I have your attention, please? The proposal of the National Deputies, supported by the Committee, to hold a Government Day on 7 October 2003 on the concept of an international consortium for the administration and development of Ukraine’s gas transport system, is based on the vote. Please make up your mind. [[11:34:05]] For 293 Decision taken. So for October-month, we have four questions for one day per government day. There is a vote on the proposal of the National Deputies, supported by the Committee, to hold parliamentary hearings on the principles for the further use of Ukraine's gas transport system on November 5, 2003. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:34:42]] For 202 The question is out. A draft decree on the approval of parliamentary hearings is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee, Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The draft decree, appointed by the Head of the Supreme Council, provides for approval by the Supreme Council of two positions, that is, the position of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council and the position of hearings on the Committees of the Supreme Council. The purpose of these provisions is to regulate the procedure for the preparation and direct organization of these, such hearings. First of all, the aim is to hold parliamentary hearings. This is, first and foremost, a study of internal and foreign policy issues of the State, which are of social interest and require legislative regulation, monitoring the implementation of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine by the authorities of the State and local self-government, preparing proposals for improving existing legislation, etc. It is also clearly defined by these provisions that parliamentary hearings may be held during a session period, usually not more than once a month and on the day of the week, as defined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules for Committee Work, particularly in the second week of the month, and in fact in the factions, on Mondays, as provided for in article 2.1.4 of the Rules. At a meeting of the Committee yesterday, proposals and observations were considered for the draft decision that we requested at the last meeting of the Conciliation Council, that is, last Monday, came from the heads of committees and parliamentary factions and groups. In particular, these are proposals made by the Committees on Social Policy and Labour, Health, Motherhood and Childhood, Construction, Transport, Housing and Communications, Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism, and a number of MP factions. Also discussed is the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on this issue, which is this issue that is highlighted in the proposed draft decision. These proposals mainly contain comments on the text of the draft regulations that I have already mentioned. There are also recommendations for the adoption of the proposed draft decision on the basis of further comments and suggestions. Therefore, yesterday, honourable colleagues, and Vladimir Mikhailovich, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision on the approval of parliamentary hearings as a basis and to entrust the committee to elaborate a draft decision, taking into account the observations and proposals made to it by the parliamentary factions, the groups, the committees of the Supreme Council, the individual people's deputies in preparation for the consideration and direct discussion today at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of this very acute problem that we have started our work today in the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, may we vote on the committee's proposal -- to accept it as a basis -- and then work on it? Please, Rudzkowski insists. Mikola Rudzkowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Then Pehota, then Bespallian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u45	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Valentin Grigorovich, last week I held meetings in the Chernigiv region and discussed this issue with the electorate: to limit the number of hearings held in the Supreme Council. The voters say that we do not now have a broadcast of the Supreme Council directly, as it was before, and holding parliamentary hearings allows voters to learn more about positions and parties and political groups on a particular issue. And they ask not to shorten the number of parliamentary hearings in the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council, but support the committees to hold their hearings to improve their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleague Rudzikowski, it is not about holding parliamentary hearings at all, but about putting the proper order in place. Today, at the Supreme Council, there are proposals to hold this session, which has just begun its work, already with 12 parliamentary hearings, that is, we will need to hold parliamentary hearings every week. You know what that's gonna do. They will not take part in the lion's share of the national MPs, but they will act here, from this rostrum, and discuss issues that concern, particularly our electorate, not the national electorate, but those invited by the respective committees. And you yourself know from the practice of our work, we need to have an effect in dealing with an economic, socio-political problem. Therefore, the committee insists that everything needs to be done to ensure that the practice of holding parliamentary hearings serves as our main task with you: to solve those problems that need to be addressed first and foremost by national deputies and to involve our government officials directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u47	Vladimir Pehota, the European Choice, is a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u48	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. We have discussed the question that has been put into the agenda today in the parliamentary group, and we fully support the need to put the right order in these matters. We're for everything to be proved and not to be what the chairman of the Rules of Procedure here called such inadequacies. However, we have made a number of proposals that we may have made late, but there are a number of provisions that do not correspond to this ruling, the Constitution or the Rules, or there are our proposals for the organization of the hearings themselves. And we would ask that they be taken into account or considered with our participation in this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u49	Dear Volodymyr Yuriovich! I said that at the end of my statement on this project, and I said that the committee is now proposing to adopt a draft decree on the approval of these positions on the basis and to entrust our committee, i.e. the Committee on Rules, MPs and the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to work with your proposals and observations that you have made, particularly your parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u50	Boris Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u51	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! The problem is, it's obvious. Therefore, we should thank those who care about its solution. It is not a secret that parliamentary hearings often turn into parliamentary speeches, nor are they empty, where there is nothing left but artistic whistling. How to make them more effective, I think, maybe this procedure of further work. And I fully supported the committee's decision. To accept it now as a basis, without, of course, taking it as a whole, and then preparing it in two weeks' time in the preparation of drafts for second reading. So to set the term, let's say, two weeks to make proposals by legislators, that's each of the deputies and so on, and to view it as a comparative table and so on. Because it's a very important question. I fully agree with my colleague Rudzkowski that the social impact of these hearings is much greater than, let's say, the technical decisions that are made on them. So I think this procedure would be effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u52	Thank you, Your Honor. We cannot give a comparative table a position on the holding of parliamentary hearings. This is not just about the draft decision itself, which is just two points. First. Approve the position of parliamentary hearings. The second point is to confirm the position of hearings on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, no comparative tables can be given, especially since this is not a requirement of the Rules. And carefully familiarize yourself with the proposed positions and offer your suggestions, we will be grateful if you do this work and your comments will be fully considered by the committee in the finalization of these provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u53	Alexander Turchinov, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! We supported the proposal on the basis of accepting and cooperating with the committee. But, Valentin Grigorovich, our faction calls on the Regulatory Committee to take into account the opportunity of each faction at parliamentary hearings because we have an abnormal nervous situation when MPs fight in turn for opportunity to speak. And it turns out that whoever signed up quickly, those 10 people there are speaking from one faction, from the other factions any attempt goes, but people don't get the performance. We very much ask our faction to take this into account from each faction there must be a quota for the performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. I think this proposal will find support. As a member of the Rules Committee, I ask you to make such a proposal to the committee officially as the subject of the legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Our Ukraine. Vladimir Mikhailovich, you've made a mistake, I've never crossed any other block, and I have no intention of crossing over. Dear reporter! I share the opinion of those who say that only now should be taken as a basis for the conduct of parliamentary hearings, because it must be recorded here that on the day of parliamentary hearings, during parliamentary hearings, various meetings are prohibited with the participation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, committee meetings are prohibited because we discredit the Supreme Council of Ukraine by showing an empty hall in the Supreme Council Hall. This practice has not yet been eliminated. Our Committee of Legal Policy sits all the time while there are parliamentary hearings. And you have to run between each other and each other. Voters don't get it right, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they're pushing questions that aren't supposed to push. This is what we have to put in place, and it has to be done by all of us and by the leadership of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u59	I thank your colleague Karmazin. We will discuss this proposal and present it to the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u60	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'm sorry, Yuri Carmazin. I misrepresented the faction. I called the faction wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u61	Dear reporter, I fully support the idea of organizing two types of parliamentary activity of deputies such as parliamentary hearings and committee hearings. But I still have doubts about the form of resolution of this problem, because this refers again to the same activities of Parliament, two types of individual, apart from committee meetings where bills are being considered, and in addition to plenary meetings where bills are already being considered in plenary mode. Why should we take separate positions as a type of normative act? Why can these not be separate chapters in the Rules? This is regulation of our activities by various types of activity: plenary meetings, committee meetings, parliamentary hearings, committee hearings, Government Day. These 5 activities should be found in a single act of the Rules in order for them to come together and accordingly to be the only concept of regulating parliamentary activity. Then we'd have separate regulations, we'd be able to make proposals, we'd be able to see. And so there are some positions that we just have to approve and nothing else. I'm a proponent of this being a codified act, a regulation that is not yet the law, but still that it's in the regulation. How do you view it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u62	Thank you. First of all, we propose not just to approve, but to adopt the legislative act, which is the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And if the position is confirmed by a decree, you understand well, Your Honor, that it is necessary not only for the Supreme Council to execute. Secondly, at the end of the last session, members of the Committee on Rules of Procedure introduced a draft law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council. He's in the Supreme Council today, in Parliament. Please work on it, make your suggestions for improving it, and especially in the part about the day of governments, parliamentary hearings, committee hearings, that is, the entire organization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We will be very grateful for such suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u63	Dear National Deputies! I am voting on a draft Supreme Council ruling on a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of provisions for parliamentary hearings. This is number 3746/P on acceptance as a basis. I mean, the committee's proposal. Please vote. We'll take that as the basis of the document. [[11:52:32]] For 406 Decision taken. I'm asking people's deputies, faction leaders, groups, committee leaders to make comments, suggestions, additions, clarifications in writing to the committee over the week. And I'm asking the committee to finalize the document for 14 days and submit it to the Supreme Council for final approval. Is there no objection? Thank you. A draft decree on the holding of parliamentary hearings “The State Budget of Ukraine – Real Sources of Filling and Expansion of State Financial Resources” is being announced for consideration. Porcelain Peter Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u64	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! You're looking at a draft Supreme Council decree to hold parliamentary hearings on the State Budget -- real sources of replenishment and expansion of the state's financial resources. The draft decree raises an extremely painful and urgent question, because we can now see the draft State Budget, which is officially approved by the government, filed, registered in the Supreme Council. And we've been informed that the income portion of the 2004 State Budget is going to be a little over 58 billion. Dear colleagues! The budget is first of all numbers. And if you take 58 billion. The money is what the government is offering us, you subtract 2 billion from there. A tax on the added cost that the peasants are going to pay next year, which is an extremely high risk of destroying the agrarian complex of the state. If you subtract 1 billion from there. The money that's going to be paid independently of the financial result is the sale of a foreign currency that's going to be 1 billion dollars. You'll get an actual budget this year. Despite the stated principles of GDP growth, despite the corresponding inflation figures, the government is not tasking itself with raising the revenue of the State budget. You've heard that if we demonstrate this stagnation, if today the Supreme Council does not offer to the government the real sources of increasing income, then those extremely painful social issues that we have in this draft budget, namely: freezing the minimum wage while raising the subsistence minimum, non-recovery of the intertariff ratio and non-implementation in the next year's single tariff net. This means that the cleaning woman will get as much as the teacher does. This is a failure to implement the conclusions of the Budget Resolution, which was voted by the Supreme Council. It was extremely dangerous to adopt a new law on income tax from citizens’ local budgets. The budgeted by the budget committee experts shows that local budget deficits amount to at least 2 billion dollars, and this will lead to an avalanche at the end of next year to an increase in debt on wages, the main burden of which lies first on local budgets. I'm not talking about social issues anymore. Now I've had a conversation with my colleague Sitnik, where we've actually declared that this budget has great risks of declaring science, because young scientists are going abroad now, and this budget project is actually pushing out old scientists to retire, even though today it's the elite of the nation. Therefore, the proposal: the committee made a unanimous decision: to support the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies on the need to hold parliamentary hearings on the subject, with the need to clarify the date of the hearing, since the authors proposed the date of September 10, it had already passed physically. We have now consulted with the drafters and decided to recommend and hold parliamentary hearings in October to take into account the summary of parliamentary hearings for the drafting of the Ukrainian State Budget 2004 Act. Thank you for your attention, ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u65	I'll put it to a vote. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u66	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As one of the authors of this bill, I want to make it clear. Petra Alexiyovich, we replaced the draft decree, which set the date for the October month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u67	Thank you. That's what I said in the speech. Unfortunately, the committee didn't, we were looking at an old project. But the committee made the right decision, which I had to declare in accordance with the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings: "The State Budget of Ukraine: Real Sources of Filling and Expansion of the State's Financial Resources" on 1 October 2003. This is document number 4012, which is replaced by document number 4012. Yes, there goes the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u69	The committee supports. [[11:58:45.]] For 310
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u70	Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u71	For -310, the decision is made. The draft resolution on parliamentary hearings on "Social Economic Problems of HlV, Drug Addiction and Alcoholism in Ukraine and how to address them" is announced for consideration - again, on December 1st, it is proposed to consider this document. Reporter Poljszczuk Mikola Efremovich. Please, Mikolo Efraemovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. In the last session, you and I voted to hold parliamentary hearings on December 1st on the issue of "Social Economic Problems of HlV, Drug Addiction." [[AIDS]] The committee carefully considered the matter, and many suggestions were made. And the committee believes that in addition to HIV in these parliamentary hearings, which have already been scheduled and voted, there is also a need to introduce "alcoholism," as well as the problems of HIV, drug addictions are very closely linked to alcoholism. [[AIDS]] [[AIDS]] So the parliamentary hearings were planned, and you were voted on. The only thing is, we're asking you to change, add the word "alcoholism." Please be supportive. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the bill of parliamentary hearings on "Socio-economic problems of HIV, drug abuse and alcoholism in Ukraine, ways to solve them." Let's just specify the date: set December. Oh, we haven't voted yet on December 1. December 1, 2003.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u74	This is the International AIDS Day, December 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u75	Decision No. 3007 shall be voted. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:00:44]] For 247 Decision taken. A draft decision on Parliamentary Hearings, National Television Information Space Development Strategy, is being announced for consideration, December 3, 2003. Please, Mikhail Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, this is a joint position of the National Television and Radio Council of our State Committee to identify a number of fundamental issues without which there is obviously no point in enacting legislation and adopting a budget. There are strategic principles related, for example, to the share of the radio in Ukraine. It means what to do and how to move and so on. Strategically, these are related to how many national channels are needed by Ukraine and how to relate them to regional and cable channels. So what to do in the situation of creating public television, which everyone has announced, is the President and the Supreme Council, and there is no general strategy for this progress. So there's an offer with these three structures, agreed with them, with the Nacra and the State Committee, to hold such parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u77	Mikola Volodymyrovich. Infantry Vladimir Juliusovich, please have a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u78	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. Our group does not vote in favour of parliamentary hearings, based on the fact that before that 400 votes, we made a decision on order. We have not established order, but we have approved parliamentary hearings. It doesn't make sense. So we don't vote for any reason on individual issues, but we generally think that this is a question that needs to be removed by all hearings, and once the order is approved, let's go back to the definition of which questions are to be heard, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The position is clear. I think the arguments are in favour of such an offer. But since there is no position, we cannot stop life, we need to be determined by the MPs. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u80	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I go to the right, to the left, to the brown, to the loved ones. As you can't see, yesterday on UT-1, the first news was the news of the convention, not the convention, but the political tradition of the Social Democratic Party, which ruled out our vice-speaker, Reverend Zinchenko, from the party. [[united]] This was the flight number one on the Ukrainian canal, which is financed by taxpayers’ money. Therefore, parliamentary hearings should be held, and there should be no party to usurp. There's nothing to be said about the political side of the Party of Protectors. Why? I'm asking you, how much will Medvedchuk steal government money like that? Stop it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u81	Thank you. This does not apply to the subject of our discussion. Andrew School, then Lucenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to encourage everyone to support this because these parliamentary hearings are necessary. Believe me, the Supreme Council has not so much importance in influencing the processes that are taking place in Ukraine, in influencing, passing laws that may or may not be implemented, but in influencing these processes. So I urge you, I understand that there is an argument, a lot of those parliamentary hearings or very few, but information space, information is the most important thing we need to discuss before the presidential elections. And I'll tell you more. Information is an element of national security. So I urge everyone to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u83	Thank you, Yuri Lucenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u84	Dear colleagues! I would like to ask you to support this question, not just because of the problems of telespace, but because of the problems of frequency distribution in Ukraine. National wealth is the radio frequency of Ukraine today distributed quietly, "under the blanket" and no one knows how. I think it's a very relevant question, and so I would ask, regardless of whether it's an SDPU or a Party of Native Defenders, to support this issue, because it's relevant to national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! If there are no other warnings, suggestions, opinions, I'm voting on the draft parliamentary order for hearings "Strategy for the Development of National Television and Radio Information Space" on December 3, 2003. Document number 4195. [[12:06:05]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u86	You can see how dangerous it is to take a break. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children and its Ways to Overcome is being announced. Vassil Grigorovich Hara, please head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, on this issue of parliamentary hearings, we have taken a decision with you at the last session. But since there was no technical opportunity to hold these hearings in May, on 15 May 2003, we decided to postpone the parliamentary hearings on "The problem of homeless citizens and homeless children and their ways of overcoming them" from May 2003 to the next session. And today we need to set a day for these parliamentary hearings. Our Committee proposes 22 December 2003. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u88	Dear colleagues, we have indeed decided to move the matter to the fourth session, and we have not just set a date. It is now proposed on December 22, 2003, Monday. I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the problem of homeless citizens and homeless children and how to overcome it, this is document number 4090. Please vote. [[12:36:56]] For 281 It's been decided. The draft Parliamentary Hearing Order on State Policy on Return and Compensation for Loss of Valuable Savings of Citizens is being announced. The state of restoration and prospects" in October 2003. At the same time, dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that I have received a request from the committee for the signature of the committee's chairman, this is the Committee on Social Policy, which proposes to postpone the decision-making on this issue. Has the committee's proposal changed? It hasn't changed. Then do we postpone consideration of the matter? Please, Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u89	Rudzkowski, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, we have no moral right to hold a discussion of such an important issue for 50 percent of Ukrainian citizens. The return of savings to citizens is very unsatisfactory. If this is done at this rate, it will be possible to return in 1,000 years. It's bullying, acting on older people. We must discuss this issue and make clear recommendations to the government in order to develop a specific savings recovery program for a maximum of five years. And we can identify and propose sources during hearings. I insist that this issue be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u90	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, secretary of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please explain your proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u91	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Work has supported, supports and supports the need to continue the joint efforts of all branches of government in our Ukraine with a view to developing a realistic and transparent and transparent mechanism aimed at restoring the savings that our citizens would need to recover and compensate for the lost or lost savings of our citizens. Let me remind you that there is a debate in society that is extremely negative in public opinion. And one more thing. Importantly, you know that this problem today does not bring or gives a percentage of confidence in our banking system, especially in the context of the shocks that some banks have experienced from time to time, especially in Zaporozhye, both the Slovenian Bank and our bank and so on. At the same time, I am addressing the Ukrainian national MPs of the previous call, and I remind you that on December 11, 2001, we had a government day here with the same agenda. We've given a number of assignments, and to carry out this Government Day, we've created a temporary special commission headed by the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Fomenco. A working group has been created, we've given a number of assignments, and I want to remind those deputies, especially those who have submitted their projects, and the session has introduced about 14 bills, and we've been vetoed on all of them. They were rejected. We have asked the President of Ukraine: in view of the fact that our parliamentary legislative proposals are being rejected and vetoed all the time, we are proposing to the government that is justifying this veto to give us here a bill for consideration in the session room. Early in 2002, a working group was formed by the President of Ukraine, who, together with the Ukrainian national deputies, worked on a legislative proposal. On March 26, 2003, at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, a bill was drafted before the Supreme Council, but after the bill, the government, received a number of serious comments at the meeting of the temporary special commission. We've put this bill back. Hence, to discuss matters simply today, it does not work. We conclude that such parliamentary hearings or Government Day are absolutely necessary, but they are not in time and are not for October. Therefore, the Committee on Social Policy and Work concludes that for effective work, for concrete and real decisions to be made, we need to prepare such hearings: first, give time to a temporary special commission to report for their work and make proposals to a government bill, otherwise it will be a conversation in the name of a conversation. And the second is to go to the government, and we did it yesterday at the committee meeting, demanding that we speed up the introduction to our hall, to the session hall, to a real bill, because once again, I remind you, all the vetoes and deviations. We have therefore turned to the government to offer you a way out, because the situation today is deadlocked.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u92	Basil Hara, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u93	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to make a very important point: we propose not to address the issue today, not because Jaroslav Mihajlovich called very important reasons. Because there was no committee meeting yesterday, and since the Committee had a different opinion than the author, we could not take any decision. That is, the Committee has considered the matter. Therefore, we propose that it be postponed to the next plenary week for the author to attend the meeting of the Committee. We would try to convince him, so to speak, of the arguments he has and then make a decision. And all the rest of what Suha Yaroslav Mikhailovich said is really important. But the only reason was because the issue had not been considered at the Committee's meeting because of the author's lack of appearance, which had initially requested that the issue be brought to an end, and in the end it had been so that he could not be present at the Committee's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u94	Please, Stanislav Ivanovich Gurenko. Dear colleagues, we'll move on to the discussion. I'm asking you to sign up, five minutes, very many willing. Please. I think maybe the questions will come to you. Five minutes, sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u95	Communist faction, Stanislav Gurenko. I would like to deny to my respectable colleagues, from what point of view, that if we put this question on hold, no one will ever approach it. The question has been relevant for at least 10 years, the proposals that have come to the Supreme Council, from the government in particular, not only do they not solve the issues, they have in them, which are simply abuse of investors and attempt to translate the whole offence into an existing, unfortunately, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. So I think the issue needs to be discussed. The fact that a committee has not been able to discuss is his business, and this illustrates how in this committee, forgive me, deal with such issues and organize their work. What kind of excuse is "we didn't make it"? We have to make it. I urge you to put this question to a vote and to resolve it positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u96	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Social Policy and Work has twice considered this issue. It's not our fault that the drafter didn't come to the committee meeting because he had his own opinion -- we have our own. I'm talking about something else. No one today denies that such hearings are necessary and that steps, at least small, are necessary. I'm talking about very different things: in order for these parliamentary hearings to be highly effective, to produce any result, except for one "talk about nothing," we need to prepare these parliamentary hearings and allow the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make its proposals. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a decision that will please everyone. Let's vote on this, let's make a decision, and let's set a date when the committee prepares the matter for consideration. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the bill of parliamentary hearings: "On state policy in the area of return and compensation for lost citizens' savings: state of recovery and prospects." The date will be determined by the committee's readiness. Please vote. There's a vote coming. In this session, yes, this year. [[12:46:00]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on Parliamentary Hearings is announced for consideration: "The mandatory State social health insurance – the reform phase of Ukrainian health care." The rapporteur is the head of the committee, Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk. Is there a Mikola Efremovich? Someone from the committee will report the offer. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u98	The committee considered a rereading of a bill on compulsory health insurance. The committee supported the bill in favour of one retainer and proposed a vote. With regard to the denials of the jurisdiction in part.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u99	This is a draft decree for parliamentary hearings with a daily agenda, "Generally mandatory State social and health insurance and health reform. There's Mikola Efremovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u100	Excuse me. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. So, in April, the National MP Rudzkowski made a proposal to submit a bill to parliamentary hearings, not just a bill, but a bill on reforming the health sector under the Act on Compulsory Medical Social Insurance. I mean, we've considered this in the committee, and we think that until this law is passed, and until certain legislative acts and reforms in the health sector are carried out, not before March-April, parliamentary hearings on this issue are not appropriate, that is, early in the day. Since no changes have yet been made, the law has not been passed, the government has not yet worked on this. Thank you for your attention. And the committee's decision to move this to March is April. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u101	Please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u102	Dear Mikola Efremovich, distinguished colleagues. Your argument to me seems unconvincing, parliamentary hearings are a discussion of the problem, not a bill. There is a problem, and this is the formation of public opinion, a. and around it, I think that if there is such an opportunity to hold parliamentary hearings on such a topical very important subject, this should be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u103	National MP Spivacuk, please, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u104	Vladimir Spivacuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelničina I fully support my colleague, because passing a bill to parliamentary hearings means replacing the Supreme Council with a large number of meetings, so to speak, of scientists and specialists. We need to discuss the problem, we need to discuss it from this point of view so that we do not create another MMF, as this bill provides. We need to make sure that all the funds that go to health insurance are directed to the benefit of the patient, not to the benefit of the healer. And on the other hand, we have to support the healer in this regard. So to discuss this problem, I think it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u105	National MP Samofalov, European Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u106	The Party of the Regions, Samofalov, the European Choice. I do not quite understand, but for the first time, I hear such logic that parliamentary hearings cannot be made if laws are adopted. On the contrary, you put the cart ahead of the horse. First, we need to know the opinion of the professionals, the public opinion, in order to adopt the law correctly, in order to reflect what is necessary. Therefore, I believe that such parliamentary hearings are also necessary to support this draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u107	Yuri Yehanurov, "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I support the National MP Samofalov. The fact is that under the Law on Generally Compulsory Social Insurance, which we want to consider today in the third reading, there are great contradictions. In fact, all associations of entrepreneurs are strongly opposed to the adoption of this law. And so, before you take it, you have to figure out the positions first. Therefore, I ask that the hearing be held, and the consideration of the National Social Insurance Act be withdrawn today before we consider the matter at the hearings. [[re-read]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u109	Mikola Efremovich, position of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u110	If the MPs feel that it is necessary to hold a hearing, it is illogical today to adopt the Law on State-wide Compulsory Medical Insurance. But if we are going to adopt the law today logically, and the law says how many acts and what laws should be adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which should be reformed, then it makes sense that if we adopt the law today, parliamentary hearings should be done, as I say, in March-April. As a result, the national deputies should be determined: either the position spoken by the national deputy Samofalov and Yehanurov, or the position spoken by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u111	Yes, thank you. Dear National Deputies! Perhaps such an offer as you would support. Since the draft ruling proposes that parliamentary hearings be held or proposed to be held on May 21st with the initiators of these parliamentary hearings, and the committee suggests that they be held, firstly, in October 2003, and now proposes to postpone consideration of this issue altogether, it is possible to ask the committee to agree on the matter and the exact date already to vote on the decision next Thursday. [[And what we need to listen to, we've come to a unanimous conclusion here.]] Is there no objection? Is there a need to vote? Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u112	Storm, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would very much like you to ask questions today, and we have heard the answer to what is the position of the committee on this issue. The committee met repeatedly and at the last meeting we voted in favour of supporting the bill. Today, the issue of the adoption of this law is being translated completely into a political plane. How can it be that we are supporting the government’s health reform program and are talking about what needs to be done today? Mikola Efremovich, I am asking you not to translate this into a political plane, express your position with the committee on this law as you promised us all committee members. All speak for the reform of health care, and today we are moving it to the next year. We're not going to accept it until 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u113	I'll give it to
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u114	Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. Just a minute. Mikola Efremovich, one minute. We are now discussing the issue of parliamentary hearings. Let us consider the law on compulsory public health insurance, and then we will consider it. But we have to consider this decision because we have been carrying it for a long time. That's why it's an offer. Just a minute. Therefore, the proposal for a Parliamentary Hearing Order, a request to the authors of this ruling, to the committee, to agree on the date of the meeting, and we will vote on this document next Thursday. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please, Black Vladimir Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u115	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have the impression that this is just a delay in considering this issue. I feel that there is a powerful lobby in the Supreme Council against the reform of the health system. And so I suggest that because the committee supported the proposal, I don't understand why the committee made one decision, the committee head from the rostrum makes another decision. This is from the point of view of the Rules of Nonesense. If the question is yes, I propose to vote for him today.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u116	Since we have a nonsensical nature, I propose that this question be made clear, not in the session room, but that the committee be given a clear statement of its position and that the date be set. We cannot now guess when we are holding parliamentary hearings, since we are already busy in October. I propose to return to this question in a week and to work on it in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. All of it. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings "The problems of legislative regulation and the implementation of the State policy on the protection of the rights of Ukrainians who were expelled from Lemkowščina, Nadsenje, Podleša and the Netherlands under the Agreement of 9 September 1944 between the Government of the Soviet Union and the Polish National Liberation Committee" is being announced for consideration. Reporter: The head of the subcommittee, Taran Viktor Vasilovich. Please, Victor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has considered the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings, which Vladimir Mihajlovich has announced here, and the Committee supports and requests your support as well. I will briefly remind you that 60 years are soon to come from the beginning of the tragic deportation of Ukrainians from their lands — the Dutch, the Lower East, the Lemkish, and the Upper East. I just want to say that, and I've been authorized by the committee that we're definitely going to be against this, and there's not going to be any claims to Poland at this hearing, any political evaluations. This is absolutely not the subject of our conversation. The subject of our conversation is the solution to specific social, spiritual, other problems and other problems that have not yet been solved. And if there are any questions, I'll answer them. The committee supports, and there's a positive conclusion from the Scientific and Scientific Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u118	Mikhailo Kosov. Dear Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u119	Mikhailo Kosov, faction of our Ukraine, the Reforms and Order Party. I would ask all my colleagues to support this question. However, Mr. Victor, there is such a wish. Are you and your committee ready to include more than just a document from September 9, 1944, when we consider the matter? After all, deportation was carried out not only under this treaty but not only in 1944, 1945, 1946, but mainly in 1951. So are you ready to expand this time frame? And there is no doubt that we must vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u120	Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, such documents are ready. We have invited famous historians. In particular, Sergey Chuk, such as the Bilocon, etc. And these documents, and obviously this will affect all people to solve all the displaced people, to solve their social and spiritual problems and other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u121	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u122	Dear colleagues! In this case, I would like to provide you with information on how the Committee on Veterans, Persons with Disabilities and Pensioners is working on this topic. And I would like to inform you that two bills have been passed through the committee so far. One of them is about making changes, and we listened to him yesterday, and he'll be in the hall on second reading. The second bill is a separate law on this category of people, the author of which is the well-respected author of this bill. Therefore, for today's parliamentary hearings, is it appropriate for us, if we have legislative issues that we simply have to vote on, give us the status of the law and then watch what is done and what is not done. I don't see the methodological framework today. There are bills, and when they are adopted, the subject is no longer in the form of parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u123	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u124	I will answer, Vladimir Mikhailovich, with your permission. Dear Deputy Nadrag! You work really well, your committee, thank you, I introduced the bill, and you supported it. But it's not just about these bills. For example, there is an acute problem in settling the issue of simplifying the crossing between these people, deported, their children, grandchildren who want to visit their homes, family graves, separated families, and so forth, that is, you have only adopted two, just two laws, you want them to be accepted, just two of these huge complex problems. There's a lot more than these two where you're talking about granting the status of a participant in the Great Homeland War and that's where the pensioners are only two. But it's a whole complex. And so in order to solve them in the complex, there's this word "examination" all of these acute problems, and that's exactly what parliamentary hearings are offering. You know, people just don't get us. They hope for parliament, hundreds come, thousands of letters come, they ask that they just listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u125	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u126	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u127	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I want to address the MPs on behalf of the electorate of my district, I represent Samborski, Mosticki and Grodotacki district, and the town district is the conditional capital city of all the settlers. These people were forcibly displaced. Their status is still unclear, and Parliamentary hearings need to be held in order to find out what else is needed in order to protect their rights. I beg you, I urge you! It's a perfectly normal thing to support these parliamentary hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u129	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. We'll vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u130	Dear legislators, respected politicians of Ukraine! Allow me to remind you very gently, gently, of the role we have played in solving the very many historic proud nodes that history has created. Some of them simply need to be boldly untied with their teeth, not just with their hands. It's one of the same pages that it is. I think that you and I have matured to the point that all the problems that have been in the past, we are able to look at them in a new way today, find meaning, respond to them properly, and give some signs to society that we are faithful and accurately appreciating this past. What we're talking about is one of the pages. Maybe it's not that important, let's say, for Donetsk, although there's a lot of people there, because they were deported there. Therefore, let us build up courage, and we will not drag the rope. Let us take some time to establish the truth. And as for the laws, later, when we look at them, we'll have the opportunity to evaluate them accurately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u131	Can I have another half-word? Dear colleagues, I would ask you not to politicize this issue. I would like such matters to be brought together by Parliament, not divided, for these are our common pains, an honest word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I am putting to the vote draft decree number 2394 on the conduct of parliamentary hearings on the legislative settlement and implementation of the State policy on the protection of the rights of Ukrainians who have been expelled from Lemkishte, Dissemination, Adversity and the Netherlands under an agreement of 9 September 1944 between the Government of the Soviet Union and the Polish National Liberation Committee. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:40]] For a hundred and The factions, please. The decision is not made by factions. A draft decree on parliamentary hearings to protect Ukrainian citizens’ rights abroad and prevent trafficking is being announced for consideration. Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u133	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs reviewed the draft decree on the 26 November parliamentary hearings: "Protection of Ukrainian citizens' rights abroad and prevention of trafficking in human beings". The session highlighted the importance of this problem. However, it was also pointed out that the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption had organized and held committee hearings, scientific and practical conferences during the current year, which had heard reports on the direction of law enforcement authorities, ministries and authorities, other state institutions and public organizations on the state of compliance with the requirements of current legislation in Ukraine and ratified international agreements that opposed trafficking in human beings. For the purpose of constant parliamentary control and the necessary legislative work in this direction, a working group mentioned in the committee was established. These questions were also raised in a recent report by Nina John Karpachov, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights. Appropriate decisions have been made that need some time and implementation. In view of this, the Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that the above - mentioned draft decree be withdrawn from the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u134	My fellow Members, I must then make the first proposal, however, to the national MP to hold such parliamentary hearings. That's why I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings: "Protecting Ukrainian citizens' rights abroad and preventing trafficking in human beings." This is document number 3245. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:06:17]] For 212 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "Ukraine's foreign policy as a tool for ensuring the national interests of the state, the gains of reality and prospects" is announced for consideration. Please. Stanislave Telisforovich
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u135	Dear colleagues. At its meeting on September 10th, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft regulation on the conduct of parliamentary hearings, "The foreign policy of Ukraine as a tool to ensure the national interests of the state. Profits, realities and perspectives." The obviousness of these hearings is evident because these suggestions sounded from the mouth of the national deputies in this room. In addition, the holding of these important hearings will contribute, inter alia, to the work of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on the preparation and preliminary consideration of the harmonized bills on the principles of Ukraine's internal policy, on the principles of Ukraine's foreign policy and on the principles of Ukraine's national interests and national strategy. The committee approved the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold the hearings listed above on November 19, 2003. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u136	Valerius Assadchev. The faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u137	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think the previous question, which 212 voted, just didn't go away because there wasn't a room. It's a very exciting question that's been asked. And in my opinion, he needs to be listened to. I'd like to ask you, maybe you'll optimize the majority a little bit. It's not a political absolutely, it's a social issue and it should concern everyone. I beg you, let's vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u138	Let's finish this consideration. Dear colleagues! What are the warnings regarding the draft decree number 3390? I'm voting on the Bill 3390 on Parliamentary hearings on "Ukraine's foreign policy as a tool to ensure the national interests of the state. Profits, realities and perspectives." Please vote. [[13:09:05]] For 265 Decision taken. The draft Ordinance on the date of the parliamentary hearings "Ukraine-Russian relations, state of the art and prospects" is being announced for consideration. Dear colleagues! I want to inform you that we have actually decided to hold them at this session. We only have to specify the date. The committee proposes this date on October 22. This will be the fifth hearing. But we've accepted it before, and we don't need to vote on it. Yes, Stanislav Tellisforovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u139	Yes. It is only a date that we need to find out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u140	Just a date. So are we going to vote on the date, or have we agreed on it in the working order? We're done. Have a seat. Dear colleagues! This is my proposal, Mikola Rudzkowski. And here's the proposal from Valery Assadchev, let's do it this way. Given that we have already voted on a number of documents, a number of government Day rulings, on parliamentary hearings, we will systematize them, we will make appropriate information for you, and we will take into account those issues that are of great relevance, but we have not now found, for various reasons, support, then we will set a date when they can be carried out and we will vote if the drafters insist and the committees propose. Is there no objection? Then we'll make a clear decision, and now we can have a lot of disagreements about dates. Do you understand? Please, Rudzkowski from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u141	Rudkovsky, a socialist party in Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I understand if we don't back up the hearing on a question. But the Ukrainian people were always different because he was kind to one another, even to his neighbors. I don't understand parliamentarians who don't support hearing about the eviction of Ukrainians. They were resettled, imprisoned, bullied. This issue was settled by all states — Hungary and Slovakia. Hearings took place, and parliaments defended the interests of their people. Is that what we can't do in our parliament? I insist on voting on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u142	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We made a deal. I think we're going to vote on these questions. Now we're going to vote selectively on the demand. It's a problem. A draft Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure is being announced for consideration. [[resecond reading]] But, fellow Members, I would like to inform you once again that we have held meetings of the leaders of the MP groups and factions and agreed that we will move this issue to the next Thursday. Now I would just like to ask the head of the task force, and we've assigned Hennady Andriyovich Vasilyev to lead the working group, to take the appropriate decision, and to work with the committee for the first plenary meeting. To keep him informed very briefly, and we didn't go into the discussion about the work that was done on this document. Is there no objection? Please, Hennady Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! First of all, the working group was joined by the heads of all law enforcement agencies, judicial bodies, scientists, the National Law Academy, the Academy of Internal Affairs, and others. People's deputies were included, so the base is the Committee on Law Enforcement. According to a parliamentary working group, the working group also worked during the holiday season, that is, the summer. The proposals came from 29 national deputies. Total number of proposals, 1913. More than 70 percent are counted. Three books were formed by the Criminal Procedure Code. Yesterday they were distributed, and the deputies had the opportunity to get to know them. The proposed KPC project is most democratic compared to what is currently in place. I'm not going to stop at all the positions that KPC has. You have three pages of help. You have the opportunity, without reading the KPC, to get to know this help and to give a sense of what is contained in the new Criminal Procedure Code. If there is an offer to work another week, there is no objection to this account. Let's work and put it to a vote next Thursday, but let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u144	Thank you. We agreed that we would not have discussions on this subject, fellow believers. With an offer, please, Assadchev, and then Glaucus, and then Musik Volodymyr Romanovich will make the proposals. Very briefly, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u145	Thank you. I have a question for Vasily. If he's so good, why did two factions take a break today and ask him to take it off? I think you should have said the essence of the conflict, because the law is very big, every deputy works in some field. What is the essence of the conflict, then, in two words? Give it to the Headman, let him say it. It was in vain that two factions took a 30 - minute break and asked him to take it off the agenda. What did they have to do? Let's see what the essence of this conflict is. Thank you. Yes, by the way, there was, and when we adopted the Civil Code. Then there was the essence of the conflict on the third reading, and then it was taken. Let's also look at the essence of the conflict now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u146	I see no reason for conflict. There is a procedure for dealing with issues in the first, second, and, if necessary, in the third reading. I've already said, more than 70 percent of all the proposals that have come. And if they disagree with something of the national MPs, there is a voting procedure: it is passed and voted, and it is decided by the Supreme Council. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u147	Yes. Sergey Golovaty, please, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head and Reporter! I'm not going to talk about the essence of the conflict, but the conflict is extremely deep and fundamental. And I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'm addressing you, you are the Head of the Supreme Council, and it's the adoption of the procedural codes that have been adopted by us in the past. And I would ask that you personally ask for expertise from the Ukrainian Bar Association to protect citizens in the courts. From the Council of Judges of Ukraine who is to be judged under this Code of Procedure. From the pro-procedural professors, please contact the Department of Criminal Procedure at your Alma mother-kiyiv University or the National University of Shevchenka. Please do this. And I'd like you to go to Karpachov, our or the national authority, who asked: And she says, "That's not my job." And I'm like, "Well, what do you do when you go to jail?" "No," he says, "we don't give expertise." No, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, entrust the authorized expert. And then when we get professional expertise, we're politicians here, we're going to see the essence of a conflict that is even in this already prepared for second reading. I'd like to take that into account. So we don't have to be loud enough not to be just in the head or someone is speaking. Let's give these four experts a chance, and we'll see what we can do next and how to go. We're going to take the conflict very easily when we get the expertise from these four professional directions -- lawyers, judges, law professors and human rights professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u149	Thank you. Vladimir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u150	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! We are in a hurry to promote this Procedural Code as a law. Remember, in May of one day before the vote in the first reading, we were given two volumes of this codex. Then, on July 10, they quickly voted to remove the code from the committee I lead and pass it on to the working group. It's your will. And only on Tuesday, yesterday our committee received three volumes in four copies of the Codex. What reproach may there be, Vladimir Mikhailovich, for the committee? So I propose that on September 17, we planned to listen to the codex for God’s entire day. Let anyone with interest in groups and factions come, after this code will be finalized, and on the first plenary week of October, I'll be ready to report it to you if they don't take it away from me again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u151	Dear National Deputies! We've already made our decision, let me get this straight, and we'll talk about it. This is the impression that now we don't want to look at it, motivated by the fact that it's not ready for criminal procedure. The next — a compulsory health insurance, once again unprepared — someone has a point. I want to say one thing: we formed a working group, we brought together all the scientists who were only there in Ukraine who wanted to work, and the national MPs. Whoever wanted to work, they all worked on this code. I'm here to support Valery Assadchev: we had to define and say concretely what are the issues, accept it in the second reading, move everything else to the third reading. And it seems like we don't want to make any decisions in general. And let's face it, let's face it, we don't want to make any decisions. On the other hand, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik complains that the committee has not considered it. Let's see, Vladimir Romanovich, dear, how long has this document been on the committee's agenda? As far as the interests of lawyers, judges, and so forth are concerned. They're represented on a working committee. But it's made up of the impression, your honorary colleagues, that they want to write under themselves lawyers of the Criminal Procedure Code, the judges under themselves. I had a conversation with representatives of the Attorney General's Office. They feel that their interests need to be taken into account. We must take into account the interests of the individual. And so let's work on the document at this angle and look at it next Thursday. And now, dear fellows, we don't listen, we've taken the matter down. When we consider it, we will listen to it. Let us turn to the next question. Please, from Adam Martinyuk's procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u152	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! What we're talking about right now around this code, the next one, the next one, and so on, is our great misfortune. The problem is this. When the Conciliation Council gathers, the chairman of each committee is working hard to, excuse me, push more of its bills into the agenda. He's putting in those bills that aren't ready yet, that haven't been considered yet to get into the agenda. The Conciliation Council agrees with all of this, brings us daily order, but there are no bills to this day. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask that the Secretariat, the apparatus, should only include in the agenda those bills that are ready to be considered and handed over to the people's deputies. Then there will be no problems that arise with any codex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u153	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the working group, I ask the committee, the Ministry of Justice, all those interested in the code to work with us on Thursday to accept at least a second reading of those articles that do not raise objections. They say it takes all day. Dear colleagues, we will consider the day, we will consider two things, but let us act in accordance with the Rules, that is, consider every amendment when necessary. A draft law on mandatory public health insurance, rereading, is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u154	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, in July, July 10th of this year, we heard a bill on mandatory government social health insurance and then you sent it to read it again. During this time many amendments were made to the bill. On September 3, this year, the committee sat down, discussed the bill in detail, and taking into account the complex health situation today, which is absolutely not reformed in the field of health care, and this year the funding for medicines was tripled against last year, but the patient did not feel it, the committee decided to vote in favour of the bill, with the exception of one retainer, the committee decided to submit the bill to the Supreme Council and to ask the national MPs to vote in favour of the bill. At the same time, last night we received a late-night remark to the Ukrainian draft Law on State-wide Social Health Insurance, of the General Legal Authority. The comments are mainly related to the Health Insurance Fund as a self-governing organization, which operates on the basis of the statute and is approved by the Fund’s administration. As far as the fund is concerned, the management of this is essential. This is the same: that the fund is given authority, exclusive to the authorities, including the administration of a system of compulsory public health insurance, the issuance of universally binding legal acts, the application of financial sanctions in the form of a fine, which is contrary to article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine, by which the people exercise authority directly and through the authorities of the State and the authorities of local self-government. There are a number of other editorial comments. And according to the signature of the deputy director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Chief Executive, it is written, "In view of the above, the bill can be adopted in the third reading, with appropriate work to be done for the next third reading." I repeat, the members of the committee have made a decision to adopt the bill today on the Supreme Council definitively.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u155	The People's Deputy of Vernigor. Then Francis, then Shevchuk. Let's take a look here, too. Well, there won't be any discussion. We have to take notes, dear fellows!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u156	Leonid Vernigor, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You've just rightly noticed that in any one and the other and in our bill, people's interests must first be taken into account. We're going back to this bill for the third time, and it wasn't a bill on social insurance, as it was a tax code for interference in the activities and medical institutions and physical and legal persons, and it remained. I'm asking you very much, and the reporter, Your Honor Mikola Efremovich, you just said very gently about the conclusion that our expert committee had reached. It clearly states that this is not a social insurance law, it's a government tax on legal persons to create a state fund to improve public health care. Yeah, because we can't raise money for people today to build new offices, new limos and so on. I would ask, today, Your Honor, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in view of the fact that there is a bill in the Supreme Council for the merger of three equal funds from temporary loss of employment, from accidents and from the unborn fund to return to the unifying law, and thus we from the 3,000 offices that are already working in Ukraine will make only 500. And we're going to give this money to these central district hospitals, which today are cost-free, either at our expense, or for chickens, or for bribes, we're being treated. So I'd like to take it off or move it today, to postpone this hearing with both the profile committees and the Supreme Council, and all the citizens know that we're preparing this bill to protect people's interests, not for government taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, Francis, please. People's MP, please, the faction of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u158	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Today, 48 million people in Ukraine are awaiting the adoption of this law, since this law applies to every Ukrainian citizen, irrespective of their social situation, whether or not a deputy. Today, one and a half million health workers are awaiting the adoption of this law. I would like to ask respectable people's deputies, as I have been the author of this bill, and then have made many amendments, many comments, the law has been amended and adopted today by the Committee for adoption in general for the third reading, and I ask that I understand the responsibility, because if this law is not adopted, we will allow corporate groups that are working in the pharmaceutical business today, which are working in the private insurance business, to rewrite this law. And we can't go back to that law anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u159	Thank you. National deputy Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u160	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I also want to talk about people's interests, as does the Socialist Party. You know, there are several health - care systems in the world. I'll give you a quick summary: this is the former Soviet system, this is the private medicine system, this existing Ukrainian model, it's kind of free of charge under the Constitution, and it's a model of insurance medicine. It can be organized as a major activity of private insurance companies or as a general public health insurance policy. Thus, from the point of view of the interests of the average Ukrainian, those who do not have the funds to pay for medical services and medical treatment are precisely in the interest of adopting the National Social Insurance Act, since only this law can give rise to health - care reform. I call on you to understand that there may be some imperfections in this project, to start this reform and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u161	Yuri Yehanurov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u162	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to make a statement about the proposals made by employers and entrepreneurs of Ukraine on this issue. First. This law solves one question, it creates another bureaucratic institution called the Health Insurance Fund. And so you're going to get the 5th control organization that's going to have a hell of a lot of control and fines. The other one. We do. There'll be five extras for each bracelet. This contradicts the policies of an active government. I would like to know why the government is silent on this issue, because the opposite policy is going. So we're proposing not to introduce a new fund, not to introduce additional contributions to this type of insurance, to put social health insurance functions on the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment, and to assign the Cabinet of Ministers in general to consider how many funds can sit on the neck of a Ukrainian entrepreneur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u163	Dear National Deputies! The time for discussion is up. I just want to say one thing. If you get to know the draft law, there were suggestions. One of them is not counted by the national deputy Gorbal. Everything you're talking about is obviously the right thing to do. Where are your written suggestions? And then, and I have every reason to put to the vote the committee's proposal to adopt the draft law in the third reading and generally as a law. Did I say that? I am voting on the adoption of the third reading and, in general, as a bill of the draft law on public health insurance. Please vote. [[13:32:13]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. The law has been removed from consideration. A draft law on the administration of public property is being announced for consideration. What? Please, the black man insists. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already considered the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u164	Dear colleagues! We now passed a bill that paved the way for the reform of the health system. I suggest we don't shoot. Let's vote for the third reading, let the committee work. You can't take this law off. Let's hand him over to the committee one more time and keep him working.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u165	Thank you. National Deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, the honourable presiding officer. Let's make another protocol decision: to set up a three-committee coordinating group -- this is the Health Committee, the Social Policy Committee, and this is a financial committee responsible for insurance. Jehanurov also asks that his employers be delegated. So this working group should actually consider the concept of this third reading, which is not going to go, to define, in fact, instead of three foundations that duplicate functions, one, take away functions in the State Administration, this semi-private structure that is now written in the law, but it should be made sense, not by pushing such a bill into the next third reading. Let's make this protocol decision and work on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose such an average decision. Please support him. Let us turn this law back to a third reading, assigning the committee to invite all interested parties to this bill and to make proposals for a final decision. I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to decide. Appoint by vote, distinguished national MPs. [[13:34:41]] For 178. The law was removed from the final consideration. A draft Act on the administration of public property objects is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] Matthew Vladimir Josephovich, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy and Management of National Agriculture, Property, and Investment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u168	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues. The draft Law on the Management of Public Property Objects was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, lays down the legal framework for the administration of State property. The adoption of this law would provide a legal basis for the development of the necessary regulatory framework. To the Committee on Questions. Vladimir Kirilovich. The Committee on Economic Policy and Management of People's Economy, Property and Investment for the second reading of the bill received 82 proposals and comments from 11 people's deputies. Most of them are accounted for. Proposals have been rejected which, in our view, are subject to the regulation of other legislation. For example, the definition of a State holding company is provided for in a special law on holding companies. There were separate proposals to amend the terminology of the bill, which also in some cases did not find support for the members of the committee. The Committee also suggests rejecting proposals that we believe might weaken the State's position on public equity societies. The Committee recommended by majority that the Supreme Council adopt a draft law on the administration of public property for second reading. It should be noted, however, that the General Legal Office of the Supreme Council had made a number of substantive observations to the bill, including that certain provisions were contrary to the Constitution. Recommends that the bill be finalized and reviewed on second reading. Unfortunately, for objective reasons, the committee failed to consider, had no opportunity to consider the comments of the lawyers, as they were received literally yesterday. [[I ask you to address these objective reasons on the date of submission of these comments by the Legal Office.]] The Conciliation Council did not support the proposal to postpone consideration of the bill, as Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk spoke about here, and it is on the agenda for today. The Cabinet of Ministers, which had enacted the law itself, should also be noted. In July, the Committee requested the Cabinet of Ministers to make comments and proposals to the bill, and they did not. I propose to proceed to the consideration of the comments. Adopt on second reading and continue to decide the fate of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u169	Dear colleagues! Let's do some repairs. Amendment No. 2 of the Gurov People's Deputies. You insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u170	Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u171	No, it doesn't. Let's move on. Amendment number five, Conovaluca Valeria. Are you insisting? Are you all recording your revisions? You have a lot of them there. So we're taking down Konovaluk. Kirichenko, amendment number 12. Are you insisting on the amendment? No, it's not. 15th, we're shooting. 16th? National Deputy François Romanovich, are you insisting on the amendment? 17th. Don't insist. National MP Katusheva, are you insisting on an amendment? No, it's not. Perhaps so: Who insists on the amendments that have been made but not taken into account? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u172	You don't? Please, Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, your amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u173	Semenyuk, a faction of socialists. I've got my amendments almost all taken into account. With those who are unaccounted for, I agree with the exclusion of the 86 amendments on page 28, with all the others, where I agree that the issue of State property transferred to the State Administration is not directly related to the activities of the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, to transfer to other administrations. That is to say, the Department of Industry, let the Cabinet of Ministers decide for themselves. This standard is exactly what the preceding articles predict, and it will be normal. There are direct functions that the President has for him, and those liquor factories, the liquor companies, let him run the department. Here's my one request. What's more, I want to go to all the MPs: let's take this bill because it's actually necessary to put order in the administration of public property. I thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u174	Thank you. Committee position, please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u175	Well, I personally believe that this amendment can be accepted, although the Committee does not support this idea very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u176	I put to the vote amendment number 81 on page 28 of the Semenyuk People's Deputies. I'd like you to determine by vote. [[13:40:06]] For 172 Correction not accepted. Please make a proposal to the committee. Should we vote in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u177	Yes, to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the second reading and, as a whole, the draft law on the administration of public property. Please vote. [[13:40:39]] For 280 The law has been passed, thank you. A draft law amending the Code of Ukraine "On Administrative Offences for Penalties for Violations of Fire Safety" is being announced for consideration. Reporter to the Committee on Legislative Protection of the Lesser Igor Ivanovich. Igor Ivanovich? What, you're not gonna do it? Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Non-Cyprus, 194th constituency, Hmelnichtina. I want to say that this law changes only one name. In order to apply it today, and we've looked at it on the committee, there's no change at all, just changing the title of the law -- nothing else. It doesn't cost money, it doesn't cost money. It's the title of the law to get him to work. And we unanimously accepted it on the committee, and we ask the Supreme Council to vote in favour of this law so that fire protection can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, there was one proposal, it was taken into account. So we have every reason. What? Infantry National Deputy. Please, Vladimir Yuriovich. Infantry, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u181	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, honourable deputies! As we considered this law, we realized that this was about mitigating administrative contractions, and you're telling us that there's absolutely no change. So please tell me, if there's nothing there at all -- just the name changes -- is there really a softening of administrative strings?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u182	Thank you. Answer. In fact, one name is entered. And there will be a warning. There was no sooner, and now there will be a warning: not immediately the penalty, but the warning. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u183	I am voting on the adoption of the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on fines for violations of fire safety]] Please vote. [[13:43:29]] For 348 The law is passed. A draft Act on the organization and conduct of mass actions and actions in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[second reading]] The reporter is the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations with Mikola Alexanderovich Schulga. Please, Mikola Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u184	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Your attention is on the proposal for a bill on how to organize peaceful mass actions and actions in Ukraine. This bill has been finalized and is presented in a second reading. He's been through a lot. More than 300 offers have been made. Most of them have entered the bill. He also conducted an expert study at the Supreme Council. There were some remarks to him, they were made, and we discussed them on the committee and some of them were not accepted. This bill refers to an important human right to peaceful assembly without weapons. I mean, technically, there are two mistakes here that I want to draw your attention to and apologize for what happened when this bill was being drafted, it's on page 47 and on page 49. These technical mistakes, they're a little bit, they're not a little bit different, they're changing the point, especially on page 47. But that's when we get there, and then I'll say, here we're going to have to replace one word in one place and then three words in the other. That's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u185	What is the position of the Ministry of Justice? Does the Ministry of Justice support this bill? Please, Alexander Mikhailovich Pasenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u186	This law is essential at the present time, because the actual order of the organization and the conduct of peace arrangements is not yet in order. We had a remark, they're accounted for, we're supporting it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u187	Honorable national MPs who insist on amendments that have not been taken into account. You don't? That's why I'm voting for a second-reading committee proposal as a whole as a bill of the law on the organization and conduct of peaceful mass action and action in Ukraine. [[13:46:30.]] For 124 The decision is not taken. Is the law off then? Is that what you're saying? Copy that. Yes, the bill on amending the Ukrainian Law on Hunting and Hunting for the Fight against poaching is under review. Please, Valerius Ivanovich Samowovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, by decree of the Supreme Council, the project was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but when the draft law was being drafted for second reading on the basis of the comments of the General Legal Authority and the Committee on Budget Issues, which proposed to reject it as a violation of the Law on Sources of Financing of State Authorities, is unacceptable. The committee made the right decision and gave it to you. The committee requests support for a draft ruling on this issue by the people’s deputies and for a decision to be taken as a whole, that is to say, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u189	Decline. And then we have to vote first on the adoption of this law in the second reading, and if it doesn't, then it will be rejected, I think, automatically. Therefore, I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Hunting and Hunting for the Fight against poaching to be adopted in the second reading. This is document number 2439. [[13:48:13]] For-63 The decision is not taken. The law is rejected. Let's move on to the chapter, Your Honor, pay attention to the re-examination of laws with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Out of procedure, please, Sergey Headate. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u190	Sergey Golovaty, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am surprised by the very procedure for dealing with this issue. I think I'm not the only one who's surprised. It can. The whole professional legal world. I never knew, and perhaps no one knows that the Ministry of Finance has jurisdiction over the adoption or amendment of the Constitution. Sorry, everybody knows it's money. And look at the position on the Ministry of Justice, you'll see that it's the competence of the Ministry of Justice that refers to the issue of state legal policy and the theory of constitutional law. It is surprising that, on behalf of the government, a representative of the Ministry of Justice is responsible for making changes to the Constitution. Isn't that strange? Oh, the Ministry of Finance. Is the subject of money regulation or is it not money, budget or budget that determines changes to the Constitution? The nature of the legal act is the Constitution, so the reporter must be the minister of justice. So I don't know how to communicate professionally here with those who never professionally handle the issue of constitutional law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u191	Dear colleagues! Since the President has the right to determine the rapporteur for the legislative act on which he made his proposals, i.e. he applied the veto, he appointed the Minister of Finance at the time was Igor Jusko. The first deputy minister, Jaroshenko Fedir Alexiyovich, will now report. As for the solutions to this question, you know that it was included in the schedule of meetings for the proposal and insistence of Alexander Alexander Moroz. The committee invited him to consider it a little later. But we consider it in connection with the fact that we have included it in the schedule of meetings. Therefore, I invite you to the rostrum of Jaroshenko Fedor Aleksiowiovich. Is there a Feder Alexiovich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u192	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to Article 98 of the Constitution of Ukraine is the first change to the Constitution of Ukraine. Then, the change to it should be as balanced as possible about the substance of the problem and correspond to the basic principles and factors of the Constitution of Ukraine, be technically refined so as not to allow any bi-read and need further interpretation. However, the adoption of proposed amendments to the Constitution and the bill on the Court of Auditors and other legislative acts can have a number of negative consequences. In particular, this law may violate the fundamental principle of the distribution of power between the legislator and the enforcer. Articles 96 and 116 of the Constitution clearly state that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is submitting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine. According to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to approve and amend the State budget of Ukraine, monitor the implementation of the State budget of Ukraine and decide on the implementation report. To date, the Constitution clearly limits the mandate of the executive authority to draft the budget, to report on its implementation and to the legislative authority on the development of enforcement control and decision-making on the implementation report on Ukraine's State Budget. The bill proposed to the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine is further proposed to provide parliamentary control over the formation of state and local budgets. However, the content of this function goes beyond the competence of the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council. Since the Court of Auditors exercises control in the name of the Supreme Council, it cannot have more authority under the Constitution of Ukraine than the Supreme Council. This will create the conditions for the Court of Auditors to intervene on behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the work of executive bodies in the formation and execution of state and local budgets. In practice, this means that improvements will become more difficult and delay the process of making both government and local budgets. This will not result in objective intervention, since responsibility in this case is not limited. The introduction of these changes into the Constitution will lead to the disorganization of the budgetary process defined by the Budget Code on the basis of a clear delimitation of powers. Second, the deterioration of budget confusion. Third, the lower level of responsibility of public authorities, the quality of budgetary indicators. Fourth, destabilization of the budget system. Therefore, honourable national MPs, taking into account the noted president of Ukraine, propose rejecting the Ukrainian Act of Amendment to Article 98 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, please sign up. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz, who insisted on this, has the right to speak. Would you please sign up, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u194	Honorable MPs, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have indeed insisted on the Conciliation Council. The rapporteur, speaking here, has obviously not seen the President's initiative as expressed in the changes to the Constitution, the draft changes are the opposite of what the rapporteur said. But that's a separate question. Today, for procedural reasons, because the committee has not reached a conclusion on this point, and given that the Scientific and Experimental Department has also not been able to draw conclusions, this issue cannot be considered. And we had previously arranged with colleagues from the committee who would come to the head of the Supreme Council and ask them to take this matter down. They didn't make it. They didn't say. So I'm asking, let's take this question off the table. Let's look at it next week. I'm sorry to say that I obviously wasn't so obsessive in carrying out this initiative that I could organize all the procedural moments that depend on more than just me. I would ask you not to consider this question, but to move it to the next week, and there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u195	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u196	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Martinyuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u197	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexiovich. Dear colleagues! Dear Fedor Alexiovich! I understand you're reporting on behalf of the President. That's the thought expressed by the President. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u198	Very good. I think you, and in any case, the Cabinet of Ministers, as far as we know, and the media, have decided that he clearly supports the President's proposals for political reform. That's also true. And the third. Alexander Aleksandrovich already mentioned that the bill, which came to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, took this position completely into account. And this bill is supported by the President of Ukraine. So who do you represent here today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u199	Dear National Deputies! Let me answer that. Now I've had the same contact with the faction leaders again. Let's maybe do it this way. Because we had this document on 2.05 p.m. The year 2002 was one of It's been a long time. Obviously, something's changed. Let's put it off for a week to review this document. Let him take another look at this document to the committee. On Monday, we will discuss it on a consensus board, produce a single policy, and make the only right decision. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u200	Thank you. All right, then time's up. Cloud Stepan Ilkovich, those who signed up, please come on. Please have a seat. We have three more minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u201	Please give the floor to the deputy-in-chief, Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u202	Who? Sergey Petrovich Glavatius, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u203	Sergey Glaucus, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is another proof of what you're saying -- the Conciliation Council has decided. What did she decide? And that question is not ready. It was not considered on a subcommittee whose head I am, constitutional issues. And you say, "Conciliation council has decided." Then what are we, MPs here? This is further proof of how the questions are handled in an unprofessional and unprepared manner. But one more question to the distinguished reporter. I am very grateful that he explained to us the meaning of the principle of power. And he explained that the President is opposed to having the people in the person of Parliament through the House of Accounts, which is the only tool of the people's control over the funds that come from people and create a budget, that the President is against the people in the person of Parliament through the House of Accounts controlling the coming of funds. We are very grateful for the President's position that he is taking a stand against the people's control. For God's sake! It is finally clear to everyone that no political reform is necessary, that it is all a dream and a lie!Oh, my God! So I am grateful to the Minister of Finance, who is very well versed in constitutional law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u204	Thank you. Yes, please, we still have time there, Sergey Slubenka. Is it weak?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u205	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u207	My word to Roman Zvaric, faction of "Our Ukraine."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u208	Roman Zvaric, please, the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u209	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich and the distinguished Ukrainian national deputies! For two reasons, I insisted on a word in connection with the bill. The first reason: I draw your attention to such an elementary fact. The Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the bill in its second constitutional reading. If I'm not mistaken, he's got 317 votes. The president vetoes the law, which has already won 317 votes. Whether the President should veto a law that has already gained more than 300 votes is one question. The second question, in the President's veto itself, relates exclusively to the stylistics of the formulation of this rule, which has won 317 votes. The reporter, going beyond the President's veto, speaks essentially. I propose, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine turn to the President and draw his attention to the fact that his authorized representative goes beyond his veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u210	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is that the Constitutional Court, by its decision, has made it clear that the President can apply the veto to the law amending the Constitution as a matter of law. There is such a decision, and that is why the President of Ukraine acted accordingly. The time to discuss this matter is running out. We agreed and decided that next week we would consider it. Huh? So let's sum it up, let's do it. Please, Assadchev, then Zibenko, and we're done. Please. Then it's expensive for everyone to be satisfied.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u211	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. First of all, I wanted to say essentially what Jaroshenko reported. Today you know, dear friends, that all the local budgets are transferred by cash execution to the Treasury. And if you'll excuse me, there's no violation of the Constitution. And to control it, and the Headman said it right, we gave the authority to control it better. Do you know how much money is being stolen today? It turns out that this goes beyond the Constitution. I believe that the President is against active budget control. If there's a stylistic language, let's fix it. But this amendment must be accepted. And the second moment is legal. Vladimir Mihajlovich, Constitutional Court gave the President a veto, but he did not answer one question that he had to answer: at which point the amendment of the Constitution became effective. The Constitution itself is from the moment of acceptance, and then the standards of change, from the moment. And it turns out that some of the norms are going to be accepted from one point to another, and some of the other norms are going to be accepted from another point to another. It can't be in the Constitution. So in my opinion, we need to go to the Constitutional Court. Let him fully explain his position: From what point does the Constitution become effective in changing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u212	Thank you. On this particular occasion, the Constitutional Court also provided clarification. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please. Then it's Roadside.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u213	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, the faction agrees that we will return to this document next week. Actually, a consolidated decision, I think we've already made today. But I asked for words in the introduction order to inform you that today, September 11th, there was a protest action in Kiev called "Protect the Veterans!"in which, in fact, disabled persons, veterans, Chernobyls and a number of other categories, which, on the basis of Ukrainian legislation, were entitled to benefits, the basic requirement was that the Cabinet of Ministers replace the social benefits with targeted money. During this action, in which 10,000 to 12,000 Chinese participated, requirements were accepted for the Cabinet of Ministers and for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I ask you to take a break with a group of deputies in order to accept these demands on behalf of the participants in this protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u214	Okay. Please, Alexander the Road.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u215	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law has a long history, since it has twice been sent to the Constitutional Court. Indeed, the final vote took place in April 2002. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President returned to the Supreme Council on 12 May 2002 with his proposals. The corresponding number of national deputies then appealed to the Constitutional Court whether the President could veto or propose to the Act amending the Constitution. By the way, Roman Mikhailovich, the vote took place in the second reading of 300 votes, not 317. Thus, the Constitutional Court made it clear that the President had such a right. But I completely agree with my colleagues who say that from a political point of view it's out of line. Only a fool doesn't change his position. And so this position has changed. It's reflected, and I'm paying attention to you, in a very different wording in the draft law, which is currently supported by 291 people's deputies. So there's probably no point in considering this and making a final decision, at least in a week, when we'll know the fate of the Act of Amendments to the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-11-m0.u216	Dear National Deputies! The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. Please be in the session room at 4:00.
