ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:37]] Registered -430 A total of 430 national deputies were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of national deputy Gabrieluk Ivan Jaroslavovich. Let us greet him, wish him health and success. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with Article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations we have 30 minutes to announce requests, statements, messages and proposals by national MPs. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for statements, messages and suggestions. Dear colleagues, at the same time, I want us to consult and make decisions. We already have six dozen, sixty, parliamentary questions to vote on. Of these, there are two parliamentary requests to the President. I've seen them, they're not political. If you don't mind, you could vote separately for the President of Ukraine. Then I'd read all the questions, we'd vote to save time for the speeches. Is there no objection? You don't? Thank you. Please state on board the names of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. Vladimir Pehota, procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to ask, Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have our colleague Chelombetto in the hospital. He asked a parliamentary question, which bears no political hue or color whatsoever at all. I'd like to vote and support our deputy, our colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u3	It is, this request, that we should vote it out. Dear colleagues, there were requests from Ukrainian national deputies: Oksana Bilozoz to the President of Ukraine for an answer to the resolution of the forum of the Ukrainians of Italy. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:05:14]] For 241 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:05:35]] For 242 Decision taken. Anatoly of Moroz to the President of Ukraine on the question of the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine posthumously to Gnito Viktor Vasilovich, who died in the Republic of Afghanistan in the course of his international duty. I'm voting on support for the request. [[10:06:13]] For 205 Request supported. I'm voting on the request to the President of Ukraine. One minute, cancel the vote. It's from Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u4	Anatoly Moroz, 83rd constituency, Communist faction, Zaporez region. Dear fellow national MPs! I ask you very much to support this mission to the President, because he is the only person who has died in our troops. All those who participated in those fights were assigned the name Hero of the Soviet Union, the name Hero of Russia, and so on, one of our own citizens has not yet been assigned a title. I think the President's going to address it. Afghanistan, fighting in Afghanistan. So I'm asking you, my dear colleagues, to support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u5	I'm voting for a motion to the President of Ukraine. [[10:07:27]] For 279 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now I will read the questions, please listen carefully. If there is a warning, let me know. Olga Hinzburg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the conflict situation that took place in the teaching group of the Štkin High School of the Suma Region. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal transfer of funding deadlines for public programmes to protect the population from the harmful effects of water and land melioration. Ivan Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the parliamentary request for the power outage of the Federal Agrarian College of the Ternopil Region. Igor Chelombitka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for failure to take action to mark 200th anniversary of Chevchenk's birthday. Igora Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the development of a concept of national immigration policy, the creation of a legal and regulatory framework for labour migration of Ukrainian citizens abroad. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for ignoring the rights of invalid accountants in the Chernobyl AES. Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the opposition of officials of the State Liaison Committee and for information on the implementation of the country's microwave integrated television information system, which contradicts the government's decisions on the innovative development of Ukraine. Anatoly Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the financing of the construction of the Stanislav District Hospital of the Herson Region. Mikoli Catherinechuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reasons for the failure to implement the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities. Peter Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the provision of assistance to families affected by the fire in the village of the Upper Christian Region of Cherka. Mikli Noshchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the restoration of the train movement between the railway stations of Hutir Mikhailovsky-Vrožba in Sumi district. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to find the missing 68 citizens of the Chernigian region. Levka Lukyanenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, regarding the compliance of state authorities with the requirements of effective legislation regarding the National Hortica Reserve. Anatolia Kozlovski to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of youth programs in the Mikolai region. Valerius Samoplovski and Mikola Shershun to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for lack of funding for regional state broadcasters. Mikli Tomenka to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, for the illegal eviction of the bookstore "Art" from the street of Khreshtick in Kiev. Groups of national deputies: Sabashuk, Sobolev and others, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, to investigate tax evasion schemes against the state used by the Zaporez City Council. Alexander Moroz to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rights of landowners of the open stock company "Bortnichi" in the Kyiv region. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for debt on wages paid to employees of the state-owned company "Smola" of the city of Dniprodj yinsk, which belongs to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine. Lesia Tanjuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for improper review by the Procurator's Office of the Vinnitsky District of Complaints and statements concerning the activities of officials of the local authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the investigation of cruiser explosions. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Ivan Kirilenko, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the open-ended shareholders' association of Michurin in the Hersonian region as a result of the violation of shareholders' ownership rights. Andrija Škila to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of the labour force of the Trijanda Disabled Enterprises in the city of Lviv, with the illegal occupation of his premises by the company NOT. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and the Russian Federation and the Framework Agreements on the Black Sea Fleet, as well as judicial decisions relating to the illegal activities of the forces of the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on strengthening monitoring of the investigation of the attack on the newspaper "Moloda Galicina" of the Lions. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the purpose of providing treatment for the state disability of the first group from Kirovograd in the neurosurgery hospital of Donetsk. Vladimir Petrenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for failing to execute the court's decision to withdraw from the "Centrolite" purse factory on salary to the employees of the factory. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Herson District State Administration for the illegal collection of salaries for medical examinations from employees and students of the Herson High School of Commerce. Vladimir Puzakov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the delay in investigating the Office of the Ministry of Interior in the Kirovograd area of appeals by veterans of the Great War of Homeland, veterans of work in connection with the violation of their constitutional rights. Vassil Bartkiv to the Minister of Culture and Art of Ukraine for the non-payment of salaries to members of the Volin State School of Aesthetic Education. Andrija School for Foreign Minister of Ukraine on violations of article 2 of the Ukrainian Constitution in connection with interference with Ukraine’s territorial integrity through the possible capture of Tuzla Island. Alexander Goodima to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the measures taken by the Ministry to implement the interview procedure for members of the U.S. Congress at the Embassy of Ukraine when they receive visas to Ukraine. Stepan Bulba to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on violations of the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act on the recalculation of pensions for civil aviation personnel caused by a letter from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine dated 5 July 2001. Viacheslava Anisimov to the head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine regarding the terms and conditions for the sale of the stock control package of the Open Shareholder Association "Dniprovi Metallurgical Combine of the Name of Djerjinsky. Igora Ostasa to the head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on non-payment of land taxes by a limited-liability company called the Hodorovian Sugar Plant. Valentina Seminouk to the Kiev City Head on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the response to the Special Monitoring Commission's request for privatization of Ukrainian legislation in the privatization of the Knowledge Bookshop. Jury Klukkowski to the head of the Volin Regional Public Administration in response to the dissatisfaction of the request for unlawful dismissal from the post of Deputy Chief of Housing and Utilities of the Volin District Administration. Vassil Bartkov to the head of the Wall City Council for the name of the street in the city of Ivano-Frankiv. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the head of the Herson district government regarding the water supply to residents of a village of the Upper Horn of Herson. Viktor Gorbachev to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for failure to comply with the legal requirements of the Ukrainian national deputy as prosecutor of the Mikolai district. Vladimir Onishuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the reduction of the states of military personnel in the Ukraine. Lesia Tanjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the attempt to destroy the unique bookstore "Art" in Kiev on Chrystec. People's Deputies Groups: Activajko, Harmash and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, heads of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the violation of article 47 of the Ukrainian Constitution on the housing rights of citizens who live in hostels during the privatization of state property. Viktor Drachewski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the appeal of voters for social protection of pensioners who worked under the conditions of the Last North. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the basis of an answer to the resolution of the forum of the Ukrainians of Italy. Mikhail Rodionov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the healing and rehabilitation centre of the space sector in Kiev. Romana Tkacha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on accounts with Ukrainians who have been rehabilitated. Valentina Zubova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the investigation of information related to scandalous publications in the media concerning the Minister of Transport. Romana Zvarič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the possible impact of the Russian Federation's construction of a hydrotechnical building in the Kerchen Strait and the flooding of the coast of the sovereign territory of Ukraine. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the additional issue of the closed shareholding company Lukor, which will effectively lose control of the activities of enterprises by the Ukrainian side. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court's decision of 11 December 1999 on the use of public language by Ukrainian employees, the Savings Bank of Ukraine. Vassil Nadraga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation of the submerged area in the city of Lugansk and Kamyanobric. Stepan Bulba to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the redistribution of property of a society with limited liability "Azalia" in the town of Grebinka Poltava district by the administration of Dniprovsky. Dnipropetrov's Pipestall Science and Production Center. Eugene Hoornik to the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the economic feasibility of redistributing the Kalusian closed stock company Lukor's shares in favour of the Russian co-founder Lukoilnaftochim in the presence of the debt of the enterprise to the Bavarian United Bank. Vladimir Leschchenka to the head of the Czernig district council for failure to comply with the Ukrainian council's law on the election of national deputies, the election of members of local councils and village, village, city heads in the election of deputies instead of those who have left. Pavlovski and Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the non-admissibility of lower funding for education in 2004 and the removal of higher education institutions from budgetary institutions and support for the appeal of a scientist to the Council of the National Technical University of Ukraine "Kyiv National Institute of Technology". Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for delay in the search for a stolen car by a citizen of Skoveri by employees of the Lutsky UMS of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on sending out the requests I just made. [[10:20:03]] For 329 Decision taken. Please explain on board the names of the national MPs who signed up to announce requests, statements, messages, and suggestions. Vladimir Stretovich, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Mhitarian.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, give the floor to the national deputy Yavorovski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u7	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. I'm asking you to fix it. It's three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u8	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Lvivščina Dear colleagues, distinguished voters who are now listening to us. Like man, power is one that radiates good, happiness, good aura, and another that radiates evil and wickedness. Unfortunately, that is exactly what happened to us. Look at the end of the state’s reign. One scandal after another. There's an island, there's an Odessa-Broda pipe full of Russian oil. And literally the latest events that rocked the imagination of many Ukrainian citizens are an event in the small village of Verbljana, which sheltered the largest in Europe of the Yavorov region. I've just come back from there, literally in my ears there's still the crying and screaming of these mothers who want to save their women, and at the same time we hear these pink ratios of power: all right, nothing happened, some flu A and a dot, and nothing else. I say again, I'm just from there. I want to ask the authorities a few questions: why do the Italians, who have several of their own ranges, all over Europe, marry technology, pay huge money and shipping, about 2.5 thousand euros to each soldier to come and shoot right here in Yavor? I don't blame anyone for anything, but let me ask a citizen how the MPs are going to ask, why are they coming here? Why do they leave after Kuchma met Berlusconi? Why did this latest explosion, which is not denied today by the military, and the explosion that broke out about a mile and a half from the school where these children are being trained? So tell me, what was the explosion if it was simple and didn't mean anything? Mother's children are taken to the hospital, they'll stay there for about two or three days and write them out. Mothers bring their children home at night, children go into a heavy cough, literally blush, and smoky their children. And the authorities explain, the medical authorities, I mean, they keep saying, "It's okay, it's okay." How long can we lie to our people? This is a society that has survived the lie of Chernobyl huge. The military also tells us that everything is perfectly normal, everything is fine, nothing has happened. It's exactly like they said about the Brewers, when the house was broken down, they said it exploded. So we were lied to for about 10 to 15 days when the plane was hit. Today is a continuation of this lie. Because of this, on behalf of the "Our Ukraine" bloc, we simply demand that the Levite MPs stop lying to doctors, military officials, government officials! Take care of the Verbals. It is not just an accident, but more than 400 sick children are there today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Yes, the Mhitarian People's Deputy, the Party's faction industrialists, entrepreneurs, "Trouble Ukraine." Get ready, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u10	Honourable Presidency, distinguished colleagues! During the discussion of the State budget for the coming year, I would like to draw the attention of Parliament and society to the cost of financing the criminal and executive system of Ukraine. Let us not forget that the convicted are also our citizens. Today, there are some two hundred thousand in Ukraine. As Vice-Chairman of the Human Rights Committee, I have recently participated in a meeting of the Committee of the State Department on the Enforcement of Punishment, and I have an obligation to bring to you my extreme concern the situation that has arisen in places of deprivation of liberty. The biggest problem is the extent of the tuberculosis epidemic. According to official statistics, there are now more than 14,000 people with active tuberculosis who are infected and affected by much more. Every year, about a thousand prisoners die in prisons and camps of tuberculosis, and another 3,000 hopelessly sick are released early, sent home to die. We will add thousands of amnestyes to this and receive the most powerful source of mass destruction. There's no need for bacteriological warfare. The main reason is that the funding of correctional institutions is deteriorating from year to year. This year, the budget provides only 45 per cent of the minimum required level. The same ratio is laid down in the Gosbudget project for the following year. . Considers that it is necessary to increase the budget for the project by 231 million grivens. I call on you to maintain this figure because you cannot cure a patient with tuberculosis for 13 bracelets a month and provide an enhanced daily diet for 1 g. 77 kopecks. There are other options. The first is simply to plant less, more precisely, alternative non-custodial penalties should be used more widely, so the Russians are on their way. In many regions, health standards for a single prisoner are now in line with international standards of 4 sq. meters. We have an average SIZO in Ukraine of 1.8 metres. And in Donetsk, for example, it's only a meter away. Second, forceful spending of money earned by the prisoners themselves. Over the past year alone, Ukrainian prisoners produced 231 million bracelets, earning more than 30 million dollars. But in actual places of detention, some one third of the prisoners are employed, although more than 80 per cent are able and willing to work in the special contingent. Finally, the third is charity. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't know any charity where you can count on, for example, to treat patients with tuberculosis in places of deprivation of liberty. I am sure that many in this room would not stay away from the good work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u11	Roman Tjak, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Solomon. So, does the Tuck pass on his word? Where's Roman Tuck? Oh, there is. Please, National Deputy Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u12	Ivan Stojko, National Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk faction "Our Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow MPs. I'm authorized to make statements by the Ukrainian People's Movement regarding the situation in the Kerchny Strait. Ukrainian-Russian interstate relations have been tested in recent weeks for the strength of building activities on the Russian side of the Kerchen Strait in the area of Kosa Tuzla. The construction of a dam to an island that is Ukrainian territory, as well as a statement by officials of the Russian Federation about the intention of placing a Russian border post there, is becoming a chain in the long chain of engagement with the state sovereignty of Ukraine and its territorial integrity. This seems particularly cynical when it comes to demagogic statements about friendly, fraternity and equal cooperation, which were so pathetically heard by the leadership of the Russian Federation in signing documents on the creation of a single economic space. Ukraine’s national movement strongly condemns the violation of our borders and demands the immediate cessation of construction work. We ask the President and the Government of Ukraine to take urgent measures to protect Ukraine's integrity in accordance with international law, namely: to request the UN Security Council and the OSCE to address, in an exceptional manner, the issue of the situation in the Kerchen Strait, which could undermine Ukraine's territorial integrity; to appeal to the UN Hague International Court of Justice for an action to cease unilateral acts contrary to international law and bilateral agreements; to refer to the States parties to a memorandum on security assurances in connection with Ukraine's accession to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons of 5 December 1994 requesting the establishment of mechanisms to guarantee Ukraine's territorial integrity. We also demand that the President of Ukraine withdraw his signature under the documents on the creation of a single economic space to protest such presumptuous actions by the Russian Federation. In a situation that is complex, the Ukrainian People's Movement will initiate a review in the Supreme Council on the denunciation of treaties on the basis of the territory of the Russian Black Sea fleet. The movement remains convinced that the relationship between Ukraine and the Russian Federation should be built on the principles of good neighbourliness, strategic partnership, respect for state sovereignty, territorial integrity and the integrity of borders. At the time, the provocative actions on the part of the Russian Federation, its refusal to address other painful problems, such as the return of Ukrainian citizens to their contributions to the Savings of the former Soviet Union or the insistence of Russian recognition by the former republics of the Soviet Union, threaten the task of preventive attacks on their neighbours to threaten our bilateral relations. The Russian leadership should understand once and for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u13	Time's up. How much longer do you need? 20 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u14	The Russian leadership must understand once and for all, that Ukraine will never again become a colony of Moscow. The movement led Ukraine to independence, and the movement was ready to protect it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u15	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Prepare Matvienka instead of Wolinz.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Domansky Anatoly Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u17	Anatoly Domansky, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u18	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The shells are being blown up again, bombs are falling, innocent Syrians, Arabs of other countries are bleeding. Israeli adventurers, using fascist methods, are pursuing policies to destroy the Palestinian State. They are illegal in need of other countries in the Arab world, and they are Banditically bombed and rocketized in human settlements, destroying the peaceful population. Today, no healthy person of progressive views can but condemn the actions that Israel is taking in the Middle East. You know, a few days ago, bombs were fired on Syrian territory. A large number of civilians have died. We, the Inter-Parliamentary Group of Ukraine-Syria, condemn such Israeli actions. We demand the cessation of Israeli military banditry against the peaceful people of other countries. Today the blood is not just from the Palestinians, today the blood of the Iraqis is pouring, today the blood of the Syrians is flowing, and the situation around Iraq is getting complicated. We strongly protest and support, express our support for the Syrian people in their struggle for independence. I would ask Vladimir Mihajlovich that the Supreme Council of Ukraine send a telegram in support of the Syrian people, the Parliament and send a request to the Government of Israel to end the aggression against other Arab States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u19	Anatoly Matvienko, faction of the block of Julia Timoshenko. Belarus will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u20	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block. Dear colleagues, yesterday we took the right step, and we endorsed the Supreme Council's statement on the situation in the Kerchny Strait. But unfortunately, I would like to point out to you that no adequate action or even intent on responding properly from Russia can be seen today. And what's more, we're seeing a rise in construction. Instead of responding properly, senior officials of Russia express their apologies for the fear of doing something that is adequate. Today, emissaries from Russia are aspiring to receive citizenship from Tuzl’s hair. The Ministry of Defence of our State is virtually outside, inactive. The use of weapons by border guards is prohibited. It is even more surprising that our Chief of Staff has not made a clear statement. So far, the President has not made a move to the Kremlin to answer what is actually happening in Kerchnya Bay. And it all raises suspicion, and there was no secret arrangement for those closed September meetings of the two presidents on Biryukham Island. And today, Ukraine is simply being sold in the name of preserving its authority. We demand today's faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and we ask you on Thursday, we propose at nine o'clock in the morning, to invite the President here, to invite the Prime Minister here, to hear reports from the Security Service, the Ministry of Defense about what actions they have taken today specifically. Why is it that the President and the government today did not contact the UN Security Council to include international institutions? We ask them to come to this Supreme Council, ours, and to propose what decisions should be taken to strengthen our eastern borders. In the event of inadequate action on the part of the President, we state that we will act accordingly, initiate resignation for treason on the part of the President of Ukraine. Third. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we ask that a full delegation be sent, and no further than she has to leave on Friday for the Gulf of Tuzla and inform the Supreme Council of what is being done there. In the event of inactivity, both on the part of the Supreme Council and our officials, we will appeal to the public to form public groups and protect the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u21	Oleg Belarus, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Where's Oleg Belarus?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u22	Please give the floor to the national deputy, Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u23	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u24	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Dear national MPs, distinguished radio listeners. I would like to say that I don't think it's worth waiting for inadequate action from the government, from the Ministry of Defense, from the Chief of Staff. They have already proved that their actions on Tuzla are inadequate. Thus, the formation of such teams in Ukraine has already begun. And I think it's a perfectly normal reaction from citizens who act under the existing Constitution: when there is a territorial threat to Ukraine's national integrity, we are obliged as its citizens to stand up for territorial integrity. And after the statement made by Russian Foreign Minister Ivanova, who judged it, officially stated that the position of foreign service in Tuzla was a provocation against Russia and that he would consider it an provocation and act adequately and that negotiations would start with Ukraine after the dam was built. This should be viewed as a direct challenge and a cause for war. It used to be treated as "caus-white" all the time, the cause of war. And here I want to see not only Chief Commander Kuchma reporting to the Supreme Council, but primarily a representative. Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. If the Ukrainian Security Service has failed, if it has not been able to provide security for Ukraine, what function does it perform? If she was working with the Russian security forces, I want to know how much and in what order, because you can believe that you could start building a dam in secret from the Ukrainian Security Service somehow you don't want to. I don't want to think she's blind and blind. If she does not have binoculars, let her buy them! Because the powers given to the Ukrainian Security Service after the adoption of the law on the fight against terrorism are unprecedented! Of course, a Ukrainian security officer can arrest and plant, and those who act against the security of Ukraine cannot even inform the members of the Supreme Council. What's going on is a report or just information. We've learned all of us here that there's a mass media dam going on, and that tells us once again about the inadequacy of the head of the Security Service, the inadequacy of the Security Service to the functions that it's assigned to. I'm addressing all the national MPs. Today we have a day of performances, and I urge everyone who will be speaking here for 30 seconds, 15 seconds of their speech to give their positions to his personal and the faction about Tuzla. If you give it back. So how much is it? If you sell, to whom? If a national MP represents Ukraine in this parliament, he must express his position. Once again, the delegation is formed and the deputies have to go to Tuzla to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u25	Thank you. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, will speak instead of Teren.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u26	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Alexander Baranowski Dear national MPs, our constituents! I would like to draw everyone's attention to the gross violation of the Ukrainian Budget Implementation Act 2003 on how the National Economy Development Programme is being implemented this year. I bet. It seems that a government for some incomprehensible purpose forms a money bag, as they say, as a trap. That is, by minimizing the financing of capital - building facilities, social programs, and, in particular, the purchase of medicines and medical equipment. According to objective data, the current budget surplus is over 2.5 billion. Money, that is, proceeds of execution come and go with dead capital. And budgeted expenditure is not financed; people don't get paid. Perhaps today someone is preparing for the presidential election, and then these costs will, of course, be needed. Because we all understand that when ice cream strikes, it won't go to capital construction. A dangerous situation arose with the financing of medicine, especially with the purchase of medicine and medical equipment. The responsible persons of the Ministry of Economics are responsible for half a year and more of the tender. I should point out that this is how some of the government budget money was not allocated at all last year. Where these amounts have been distributed since the end of the financial year, no one can specifically answer. So we can conclude that the new government is taking the old path. This is nothing more than a gross violation of the State Budget Act, an outright and cynical abuse of power. Who, say, authorized the budget approved by the Supreme Council to redistribute financial expenses into their own judgment? Whether or not to pay any expenses by hiding large amounts of money that will disappear beyond the clouds at the end of the financial year. Or let us take a vital question, such as the construction of health facilities. It was a terrible situation in Levelna with the medical care of citizens, and roofs literally fall on the heads of doctors and patients. The building of a polyclinic complex has been in the district center for ten years. This year’s budget provides for the finalization of the project. There are positive resolutions regarding the immediate allocation of Prime Minister Janukovic's funds, the first Deputy Prime Minister of Azarov. But strangely, this object did not even get to the list of those approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for allocating money from the budget. The question is, Who in the executive branch is in charge? Is it not the clerical ones, rather than those entrusted with the use of budgetary resources, who make harsh resolutions? In this way one object will disappear from funding. The same is true of the use of low - income taxes in recent years in the amount of 132 million. The bracelet that NAC Naftogaz Ukraine was supposed to extinguish by building a gas pipeline to the populace this year. The scope and specific objects to be financed and constructed have been in agreement with the Committee of Budgets for several months now, but there is no decision by the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue. All of this points out once again that the executive structures are falsifying the 2003 budget. And the last. We're the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u27	Five seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u28	..well known how today individual authorities are trying to shut down the budget. This is evident at least from when the first persons of the Ministry. They always ignore meetings on the budget committee where the budget is being discussed. Not only does Minister Horoshkovsky appear here, but his deputies do too. And that's how they're carrying out certain structures of direction after the collapse of today's government. Please consider my speech an official request to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u29	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Soboljevo. You refuse, then we will not. You're a writer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u30	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Head, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies. Today, a statement from this rostrum has already been made by the faction of the Ukrainian People’s Movement of Deputies regarding the situation in the Kerchen Strait. Several national deputies spoke, raising this disturbing subject. But somehow all the emphasis today is on, that is, claims to the Russian Federation. The Russian Federation does what it has done forever in relation to the Ukrainian State. I believe that today we should speak more and make claims to the head of our state, who is both the head of state and the commander-in-chief, and the head of the Council of National Security and Defence. The fact that throughout all this time, some leaders of the structures of the state have been saying that they are responsible for the security and integrity of our state, and the head of state has not so far penetrated any words about this callous action by our neighbours of the Russian Federation. This once again very vividly highlights the fact that the head of our nation, the fate of the state he seems to be leading, is completely indifferent. And following the attitude of the head of state towards many problems, similar to this one, we see that the President's Administration, led by the faithful servant Victor Medvedchuk, and the head of state himself, with the rest, there's no difference here, they're trading in the Ukrainian state. I'm not surprised at why this position here has been solved in this session room, and I've said on more than one occasion: the person who sent the faithful death of Ukrainian patriot Vasil Stus, no doubt without thinking about sending the entire Ukrainian people and their Ukrainian state to a faithful death, I have an EEP. Was it not clear what a single economic space was, and what was it designed for? Look, dear friends, if the Russian leadership were really cool or sober, the day before the ratification would never have taken such a step, because they understand that this would be the main argument for those MPs who authorized the signing of the Single Economic Space Agreement. Today, all those who voted at that time have a responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u31	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u32	Dear President, distinguished colleagues of the People's Deputies, distinguished radio hearers! This statement I have decided to devote to one topic -- the topic that has been discussed in recent weeks from Medvedczuk -- the head of the Presidential Administration on the so-called “threat of extremism in Ukraine”. May I remind Mr. Medvedchuk of what extremism he claims in Ukraine? Isn't that the Medvedchuk who threatened to use a rubber gun when he beat up underage boys in his early years as chairman of the OCD Women's Operation? This is not Medvedchuk, whose task is also to Mr. Minister of Education has fired dozens of Rectors and is attempting to terminate contracts today with tens and dozens of Rectors in Ukraine, threatening them. I wish to recall only the example of Zaporozhye State University, in which the Rector was dismissed and the contract with him was not extended only because he had allowed the Presidential Electoral Campaign to address all those who wished, including the current President, Leonid Danilović Kuchma. Today, this person is evicted from his own university, professor, doctor, and is not actually allowed in the building. Literally the other day, he was pierced by all the tires of the car. Threats on the phone. And they do everything they can to prevent him from participating in the competition. I cannot help but mention one topic that is being used by Medvedchuk and his associates on TV channels and newspapers: the so-called fascism and the threat of fascism in Ukraine. Mr. Medvedchuk, while my grandfather was burning in a tank on the Kurski obak, when Yushchenka's father was thrown by fascists into Auschwitz, your father served the fascists, and the whole of Ukraine knows that. At a time when you were separated from the criminal case, claiming that you were a legitimate Komsomolite and that you were a candidate for KPCS, that's why the criminal case against you was closed. You are today in the Office of the President developing a special programme to combat communism. Isn't that cynicism all that's going on in this country?Oh, my God! And I'm finally addressing the majority. Who do you serve? Do you serve as a bear?Oh, my God! Where will you go with this service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u33	Michael Pavlovsky will speak instead of Seminoga. Please, Mikhailo Antonovich, come on, time is coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u34	Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmeljnična Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to how the government, through the budget, is destroying higher education in Ukraine. Three articles can be completely destroyed by higher education, especially in technical and technological universities. These are the colleges where the children of the broad population are taught, these are the institutions of the poor. Because they can't learn in paid ones. So how do you do that? You know how hard it is to study literature today. VAT is introduced into the methodologies that are funded by the budget if they have increased their cost and their number has decreased. The other side. The relevant articles of the Education Act are being replaced, and now they are being transferred from the budgetary institutions to those funded from the budget, i.e. they change their status, they don't have to be financed. And now you understand the situation we're in. Third moment. Another article in the budget. When we enter 227 we break the tariff ratio, the proportions, now the cleaning lady and the associate are exactly the same wages. I don't say anymore, let's just say that the cleaning lady has 20 times less security than the Home Office General, Major General, but why does the professor get 10 times less than the Major General? Do you understand? Compare these categories of people. And most interesting. The most powerful blow to high school is when retirees, and these are mostly professors in higher school today, are not allowed to get paid. Retirement is more than pay today because they don't count. And what does this lead to? The university in general loses 50 percent of professors in Ukraine. What's the economy? No, because the salary has to be paid. More than that. Why don't the young take their place? That's how they don't exist. And for young people to become professors, they need to protect their dissertation. But all the scientific councils will be destroyed because all the professors experienced will retire. I mean, you see how one stroke destroys the intelligence of the nation. So what innovative development would the state have when there's no intelligence, and there's no ability to train professionals in higher technical, I mean, institutions? By the way, today Europe has recognized the best electronics professionals in Europe, and in general, high technology is being prepared by Ukraine. And that's what we're impacting. So please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, pay attention, I am addressing the government! Notice, for without this, innovative development.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to. I'll give you my word for it. In accordance with the Rules, Valentina Semenyuk has the floor to make a statement in connection with her dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP’s request.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u36	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in connection with the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Property Fund on economic accounts for the privatization of the transnational financial and industrial company Ukritnafta, I would like to inform you that the decision of the Special Supervisory Board on 16 September 2003 to review the law on the nature of the privatisation of Ukritnafta has found that the initial assessment of the object was estimated at $450 million. After the meeting, where only two representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers and the State Property Fund were present, the estimate was $150 million. This means, without a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers, without proper authority, the fate of Ukraine has been reduced by $300 million. In view of the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers has not provided adequate economic justifications for this high court and for you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I ask you to send the relevant documents that I will pass on to you on 187 pages, which clearly state that the assessment has been conducted with a lower cost of essentials, without taking into account economic interests, and that this object is the object of a strategic assignment. In order for the Office of the Attorney General to determine on the basis of which documents representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers voted in favour of reducing Ukraine’s shareholding shareholding. The other one. Explaining the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of which normative documents were undervalued the entire property complex from 450 million, which I said, up to 150. The answer to what basic calculations are expected from the privatization of the state stock package, as shown in the 2004 budget documents, is from the privatization of the assets of 550 million dollars when, according to the estimates that are currently recorded in the Ukritatnafta statutory fund, this value is 850 million. Why is this cost too low? Third. Explain the reasons for the improper implementation by the relevant State authorities of paragraph 2 of the Presidential Decree of 1994 on the creation of a transnational financial and industrial company Ukratnafta and the actions of the State Property Fund on privatization without agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers of the appropriate public stock package in the statutory fund of the Society as referred to in paragraph H), which is contrary to article 4 of the Ukrainian law on privatization of state property, i.e. to sell an object as a small price. Today we'd like to know from this rostrum to report to the Minister of Economics on which the economic accounts were based, and so that we, the Deputy Supreme Council, all hear, and not only did the Special Supervisory Commission receive the accompanying ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u37	Thank you. Okay, okay. Thank you. Shufrich. The replica. Well, it was a faction, it was a party. Let's be tolerant!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u38	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. The previous presentation mentioned the name of the Minister of Education, the member of the SDPU, and the leader of the United Social Democrats Party, Victor Medvedchuk. If someone is not satisfied with the actions of the minister of education, he today has the right to sue his actions in court. But no one took advantage of that right. As far as what was said about the leader of a party of united social democrats is concerned, it's getting tired of us, and we're used to everything that's going on in the country that's our fault. We are willing to share responsibility, but it must be the truth. And I'd like to suggest to our opponents today that we change the record, because it's already gone and the phonograph is broken, and they're already twisting it. As for what was said today about Victor Medvedchuk, as well as everything else that is said by the representatives of "Our Ukraine" basically, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u39	Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, we've already taken our time. We've taken an hour and a half. I ask the Secretariat to prepare appropriate instructions on the proposals made in the speeches of the national MPs. With regard to the proposal of the people's deputy Matvienka, I ask the Committee of Georgia Korniyovich Krüchkov for security and defence, as well as Stanislav Telisforovich for his consideration of this proposal and for his conclusions. Dear colleagues, let's hear from the head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine PARE about the work of the September session. The word is given to the head of the Permanent Delegation, Olyanic Boris Ilchi. While Boris Illich is coming, I'd like to consult with you. Dear colleagues, at approximately 12:20 p.m., we have to listen to a speech by the head of the Majlis Islamic Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran. So I would ask that we work, not take breaks, and that there be deputies present, and that the deputies be present in the hall. I would very much ask that there be no more people in the Presidium than there are in the session room. Please, Boris Illihu.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! So it's a report. Today’s PARE session is somewhat unusual. Since the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament began on 25 September, it discussed such issues in particular. The impact of the future European Constitution on cooperation between the European Union and the Council of Europe, freedom of movement, migration and control abroad. The presidents of the two institutions, Shider and Cox, on the basis of the debates, adopted a joint statement on a single Europe with democratic values and the rule of law, admitted that the European Union and the Council of Europe shared responsibility for the democratic development of the continent. The European Political Parties Charter for Europe is also represented at the meeting. society and with the call to sign it with all member countries. As a matter of fact, PARE’s own problems were reached on September 29, where the session was finally approved, with the participation of members of the permanent delegation of individuals: Olijnik, Rahanski, Gladys, Gladius, Glacier, Carpov, Klimpush, Kostenko, Simonenko, and later Babourin. The session asked some very specific questions. In particular, the threat to democracy by the extremist parties and movements of Europe, the discussion on racism, xenophobia, intolerance, the rights of minorities, balanced representation in the Parliamentary Assembly, euthanasia, common policies on migration and political asylum, the policy of integration of immigrants in the Council of Europe member countries, the organization of economic cooperation, the study of the human body at the cellular level. The urgent procedure was to discuss the role of the United Nations in Iraq. Since the information on the course of the session has been expanded, we have provided a detailed report, which together with the text of the resolutions and recommendations, I will stop at the debates that were directly related to us. So on the first day, the session heard about Ukraine's fulfilment of its obligations and obligations in the last 95th century. You may remember that our requests and counsel have been followed on many occasions. It was thought that those few debts that remained would finally be extinguished and we would come upon people with a firm proposal to free us from monitoring. Rachansky and Olinik took part in the debates on the subject. Alexander Karpova’s speech was not announced by lack of time in the order set out in the transcript. Anatoly Bartholomew, in particular, rightly observed that Ukraine is essentially on the verge of its final responsibilities and obligations, of which 34 are 30 and it is time to go to the post - monitoring dialogue. In the course of the voting of the final documents, 11 amendments were adopted by members of our delegation, separate from Gladys, Golovats, Zvarič, Karpovich, Klimpusch, Kostenek. These clarifications have largely complemented the text of the resolution and recommendations with a series of concrete and substantive steps taken by Ukraine in the last two years after fulfilling its obligations to the Council of Europe, which have been overlooked by the rapporteurs. Earlier, on September 26, during a meeting with the benefactors of Severinsen, Nevolvent, members of the delegation pointed to some of the outdated facts, or unwarranted positions, in their report with much of their comments. Thus, the hearing took place in an orderly manner. So it is surprising, to put it mildly, that an alarm was made by some experienced lawyers and rulers, caught up with certain media about leaving us under surveillance. It would be understandable for us to fulfill all our obligations and for someone who is prejudiced by the thousands. But, dear fellows, we've been doing them for eight years instead of three years, and we're not going to sin on anyone, but a delegation that every time promises the Europeans that Ukraine is on the verge of finishing this Odyssey, and we're not in a hurry at home. I want to assure you that listening has been in an optimally considerate atmosphere, as did the rapporteurs, that Ukraine has certainly made progress in fulfilling its obligations and obligations, and that when most of them voted in favour of extending the monitoring to the final repayment of their debts, there is nothing strange or exceptional about this, since we have not been able to pay back our debts in both form and context. Let's finally finish them all, and we're going to have to take off the surveillance at the next session. And I'm sure the decision will be positive. We have always behaved well in European choice society, standing firm for our point of view as to whether or not the problems were the same if they did not coincide with the opinion of the majority. We have a solid renown, and we act as beggars without at least two procedural codes -- it's not a Cossack thing. As noted above, not all who claimed to be reporters, we agreed, but many of the amendments made by our delegation, which clarified the resolutions and recommendations, were accepted and accepted with understanding. Some baseless remarks by a Romanian colleague regarding the treatment of Nazismaines received a decent reprisal and were largely withdrawn. Frankly, we could rather put forth legal claims to some nations regarding the uncomfortable position of the Ukrainians in their chairs. Who, who, and we give so much to our superiors, mainly on our own account, that we will soon become a minority as a title nation in our own country. Regarding gays, lesbians, and other sex minorities, it has been clarified that there is no discrimination in this area in our country. True, maybe I don't have it all worked out here. Finally, at my age, even with the traditional private sector, you feel more comfortable, usually in abstract categories rather than in practice. On the other hand, as to the observation of the absence from our delegation of women who were breaking the rules, there was nothing to hide. In this connection, in which I address both the heads of all factions and the Chief Supreme Council with the call to urgently resolve this delicate node, decisive action will be taken at future sessions of disobedience until the mandate of the delegation is not confirmed. To conclude, I would like to quote a passage of my statement about our question. It is thought that we have made such significant progress that we deserve a promising perspective as soon as possible to move to a post-monitoring dialogue. This confidence is based on strong professionalism and a permanent delegation, and colleagues from the Office of Interparliamentary Relations of the Supreme Council and the permanent representation in Strasbourg, who have done their utmost over the years to bring this day closer. The delegation worked together as usual. This will be objectively confirmed by an open report with which colleagues can get to know each other. I would like to hide it and the press with the radio and television, especially the dignitaries who are chasing the smaller ones. I think it's better to reduce the right amount before Christmas and Easter. Finally, I say that there has been a UN discussion and its role in the Council of Europe. I've given the thesis that unilateral action is a fundamental challenge to the principles of collective security of the UN constitution, supported it, but noted that after the words "unanimous action," we need to specify exactly who caused these actions. As to the issue of respectable colleagues, the issue that is already gaining international publicity about Tuzla, I absolutely share the views of colleague Kendzoor on the Russian side, which is not working for Russia's interests or for Ukraine's interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We'll take the information for granted. We'll send a report to factions and groups and to relevant committees, and I'd like to analyze it. And I would ask the leaders of the MPs and factions to decide for a week what to implement, or recommend women to the Ukrainian MP. Otherwise, we will have to do so in an orderly manner. Let us support the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Law on State Social Assistance for Unemployed Persons is being announced for consideration. The committee recommends such a procedure for considering the bill. For the report, five minutes, five minutes, five minutes, just like the time for the co-rapporteur and ten minutes to discuss this bill. Is there no objection? Thank you. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Michaelo Mikolayovich, has the floor for the report. Suskevich Valeriy Mihajlovich will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on State Social Assistance to Unemployed Persons, designed to implement President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma's letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the main directions for reforming the pension system of Ukraine's population for 2001-2004. In particular, with regard to the transfer of social pensions to the social welfare system. The legal rules on social pensions and pensions are now laid down in the Ukrainian Pension Insurance Act. You know that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has passed the Ukrainian Act "On a General Compulsory State Pension Insurance", which provides that employment pensions will only be paid to insurance contributors to the Pension Fund. So if we take the old law that worked before this, this is the pension insurance law and to settle the issues of those people who, let's say, did not work for a day by force of any objective circumstances in life, we are now bringing this law to the fore to settle this social-important issue. State social assistance to disabled persons under this draft law is proposed to appoint a person who has reached retirement age or who is disabled, except for disabled persons from childhood, because the issue of pension and social assistance to disabled children is being carried out under another law of National Deputy Suškević. The other one. Persons who do not receive pensions or social benefits that are paid to compensate for damage caused by damage to health in the production sector are assigned under the Ukrainian Law on National Pensions. State social insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases that have caused the loss of employment." The third category is people who don't work. And the fourth category is persons who are underfunded or who live in a low-income family. State social assistance for care is proposed to appoint 1 group and other persons with disabilities who, according to medical institutions, need constant foreign care. The size of government social assistance will be set by setting a minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. You know that until the economic situation in Ukraine is stabilized, the size of government social assistance under this law will be determined by taking into account the level of subsistence allowance. And the level of subsistence allowance is established annually by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the time of the approval of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. It should be noted that the bill provides for the provision of state social assistance to disabled persons at least the size of an active person. So the benefit of this bill is that the reduction in payments for the categories of persons who fall under this law will not take place. And the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, on Social Policy and Labour, as well as the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported this bill for adoption on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The Ministry is ready to cooperate with the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the drafting of this law. Moreover, in view of the fact that I have some time left, I would like to point out that when this bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Suškević, a position was expressed on the impossibility of applying the term to disabled persons. Singapore supports this position, because we will have to resolve this issue. It's the constitutional right of a citizen to determine his or her own performance without denying it to the MEECs, i.e. the medical-expert social commissions. It will not be against doing so during the drafting of this bill and preparing it for hearing on the second reading, so that we can work out all the points and come out in agreement with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Please sign up for the question. Lighten up. Malinowski, next Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u44	Alexei Malinowski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'm a little bit, the idea is, you know, that's what they're talking about today about social protection for the disabled, for me. The city. Those amounts that are now stipulated by law do not actually correspond to the basic tax minimums. And the question is, if you can give him a word, he'd like to ask Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u45	Thank you. According to this law, you know that we have 46 articles. Can I answer that, or did you pass it on?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u46	Please, Kalinchuk. Next Nadya.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u47	There was a question. I'm ready to answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u48	Quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u49	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor. Or was it even calculated the amount that will be, the so - called address aid, instead of the social security and the benefits that exist today? Would it not happen that today this address aid will be somewhere in 20 bracelets each man per year instead of using appropriate benefits today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The fact is that we have enough laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to deal with issues of assistance to low - income families. This is a separate law to help families with their children. We also have 46 bills that now provide social and professional benefits. This law, it doesn't apply to benefits. This law deals with the settlement of the issue of social assistance to Ukrainian citizens, who, in accordance with the adopted new law on compulsory state pension insurance, have been removed from the field of insured persons. And that's what we're dealing with today, the more we settle it in a complex way. For those who have not worked for a day, we set up social assistance for those with disabilities. In addition, assistance for care is provided to compensate those who care for a disability. What's more, we have another program that's being implemented by the territorial centres of social protection agencies, social workers, who are also providing assistance. Moreover, you know that another law passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the Social Services Act. So this law, it's part of this complex approach to increasing social protection for the most socially vulnerable citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u51	Basil Calinchuk, next Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, I'm here. Absolutely. In connection with the reform of the pension system, we need this bill. And I think the national MPs are voting for him. But I do have a question that you've already answered in part in your report, but I'd like to make it clear. According to the project, state social assistance is provided to disabled persons who have reached retirement age: 60 men, 55 women. But in our country, you know, there are people who go out and appear to be incapacitated earlier. For example, women who gave birth to five or more children. They're five years early. So, what's it like here? Maybe we shouldn't set a specific term - 60, 55? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u53	Thank you. The point is that this law settles the issues of citizens who fall within the scope of this law. We have other laws that set up, these are laws that set retirement age for citizens who work under list number one. There is, too. So there are other laws, the laws in force in Ukraine that regulate this issue. This question is settled. We approach generally accepted standards under the main pension law that the retirement age for men is 60 years, the retirement age for women is 55 years, for those citizens who, according to other laws, have a different retirement age, he doesn't deny it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u54	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u55	Dear Mikhail Nikolaevich! Well, I also made my position by law in the Committee's deliberations. I am in solidarity with these approaches, and I believe that this is indeed a step towards improving social protection for persons with disabilities. To be honest, I'm a little concerned about another order. We will adopt this law today, and it will enter into force on 1 January 2004. If the situation is not achieved that today, under the 2004 budget, or the 2004 budget, we will not receive this resource in fact, and we will again begin to promise people that we cannot from 1 January, we will repay you on 1 March, we will give you in July and beyond. I am not interested in the position of the Ministry, it is in solidarity with me and I have no doubts, and I am interested in the position of those responsible for financing these elements. This is done, it is spoken of, it is done in the end, or will it be done in the manner prescribed by the law from 1 January of the following year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u56	Thank you. That's more of a question for the Ministry of Finance, but I'll give you the answer and my vision. You know that the draft budget presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for the following: 2.8 billion dollars to separate pensions between the State Budget and the Pension Fund in order for us to make a recalculation of pensions on January 1. The total need is 5 billion dollars. The necessary funds are provided in the Pension Fund and in the State Budget. In addition, the law that I report today provides for one and a half billion dollars to implement this law. Well, there's one more thing. I think that when we address the issue of the establishment by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a minimum of living security, because there are different positions, I think it will be decided by the Ukrainian people's deputies, by setting it up, it is stipulated, this is the exclusive right of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, more than that, we have today. Today, 500 million dollars are needed for the implementation and implementation of the Ukrainian Special Merit Act. But once again, this is a question of the 84th article of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, and again, this is a matter that you, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine will decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The report is given by the Secretary of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Suskevitch Valeri Mikhajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, we rarely work systematically as legislators. And what I want to say is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy here systematically wrote this bill in the context of the pension reform that has now begun and which is actually the main direction it took when we passed with you the Law on National Compulsory Pension Insurance. One of the main components of the social protection system is that bill. And according to the directions and tasks of the pension reform of January 1, 2004, the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act takes effect. With the introduction of this law, pensions are calculated on the basis of personalised pension payments, i.e. on the basis of an insurance principle. And it's practical that the situation that the minister said today is that there are people who, under the conditions of disability, have not been able to make a living, let's say, in accordance with the new pension law, that is to say, out of retirement and salary, to make and earn a pension, and just in such cases, for people who are not working today, to do things that are alone, including, for them, the bill foresees the introduction of state social assistance and state social assistance to care for the single instead of the current legislation of social pensions and allowances for the care of non-working persons who are not involved in the payment of pension benefits. The size of the new types of assistance for the different categories of beneficiaries is defined in proportion to the subsistence minimum for persons who have lost their jobs and depend on the level of material security of the disabled person or person who has an appropriate degree of disability. I'd like to mark the address of the law. I'd like you not to think that this is an address aid, as we can see from the questions. This is targeted because there are people who have problems with pension insurance. This bill provides for a solution to these problems. I would like to point out that the government, in an effort to increase social protection for people with disabilities, is proposing that people with disabilities in the second and third groups be set to the size of state social assistance, disabled persons, by 10 percent more aid to persons with disabilities in the second and third groups. This is essential, and this is also important in the context of the new pension reform. A very important condition for successful implementation of new types of state social assistance is the financial provision of this bill at the expense of the state budget. Once again, these costs will be eliminated as non-proprietary property of the Pension Fund today. And it's important, and I have concerns about this, and I would also like to pay attention to the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, as it's only possible to introduce this law into the state budget, along with the introduction of the relevant rules of pension law. And so we need to clarify the deadline for this law not to leave people who are not working, who do not have a pension, without any means of living. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to support the legislative proposal of the government, which highlights the need for appropriate clarifications and specificizations of certain provisions of the project. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy said that there are unconditional refinements and observations regarding disability. And I'm glad the Ministry supported our remarks. I think in the second reading, we're working on these points that are consistent with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. And I would like to point out the need to harmonize some of the norms of this law with those laws that we have already passed that the government has adopted in the context of new approaches to social protection of low-security population groups. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons proposes that the bill be considered and supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u59	Sign up for questions. Yavorowski. Next Carnauchus.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u60	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear reporter! The things that are laid down in the law don't seem to give rise to any doubt, because there is some kind of shift towards, let alone, a minimum, but still a pension. But I'm reading the closing positions that say that all of this is going to happen only when the profitable part of our budget increases. When it gets bigger, no one knows. So the question is, should we just lie to people right now about when all these things that we're talking about are almost unrealistic? What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u61	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the reality of today is that Ukraine has entered the phase of pension reform. And the introduction of the General Pension Insurance Act stipulates that today the pension system introduces an insurance principle, that is, a dependency on internships and on the earnings of the person who worked. The situation in this direction is, of course, that there are people with disabilities and people who have, let's say, retirement age, but they don't have a job pension. And the government is obliged in this case to make an estimate of 157.8 million dollars. That's what I'm telling you, how much this is worth, the introduction of this law, to provide the 725,000 people who need it today, in line with the new legislation. I emphasize that today they receive this social pension, but in the pension system. Old pension legislation. In fact, the situation is: either we go to the right insurance policy and we predict it in the State Budget, or we leave it, these pension funds, and we continue to pay off the non-retirement fund. So the question is that we're going to leave people unattainable, it doesn't really stand today. The question is not to let some of the colossals take place ours in this matter of government. We didn't see it coming. I share your fears in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u62	Instead of Karnauhu Vernigor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u63	Dear Valery Mikhailovich, I am here, of course, and our committee, and we will all support your bill in the first reading. I am concerned and concerned about the situation that we have with the adoption of all social laws. We simply mislead ourselves or the Supreme Council that by adopting laws, we cannot put anything into this law to be implemented. You see what happened last year even with this. All the money we raised in the solidarity system for the Social Insurance Fund from accidents. The minister’s office, by its intervention, has spent 200 million dollars on wages, and it is the unworkable ones, neither from where nor from where they have, who are eating oil or chewing oil today. So we should probably put everything in the bill on the first reading so that this law can be implemented and no one can reach out there. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u64	I absolutely share your view on this point that many of our bills are not being implemented. I'm the author of the Law on State Social Assistance for Children with Disabilities and Persons with Disabilities from Childhood. He is very familiar with this law. And really, for three years, I've been making sure that this law is funded, even though it's children with disabilities, you know. Today it's funded. And speaking of what you've said, I think in the system of our legislation, for it to be in the system, it is necessary to assume responsibility for the implementation of this law. That's the first one. And the second question is about, let's say, this bill, this particular bill. I mean, in the second reading today, we have to anticipate standards that lay the groundwork for that, or if we move on to that new law, there must be money. If we're not moving, we're leaving these ineligible pension payments to the Pension Fund in the pension fund system so we can keep people out of detention. That is why we need to put this into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u65	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u66	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. Valery Mikhailovich, I completely agree with you, this is probably not the only and not the first bill of government to support, because it's on time. And you've rightly noticed that it gets into the system and increases, increases the system itself. I have two questions to ask you, as a professional, as a secretary of the identity committee. You know that the Social Policy Committee has also supported it. Does the bill provide for amendments to the existing bills, a first question. And the second. After all, would it not be the result of the adoption of this bill in some way, in some respects, of the deterioration of the material status of today's pensioners?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u67	Thank you for asking and thank you for supporting the Social Committee of this bill. You know, I want to say that the reality, as it was written today in the bill, and what the Minister of Labour and Social Policy confirmed, is not going to get any worse. Since this social assistance is otherwise legally provided, it is provided for in Ukrainian legislation. What's important is that today, working for pension reform and moving from one principle of the solidarity system to a new pension policy, we systematically, as you have supported me, have ensured the introduction of this law. At the same level as the standards predicted today. In order for the disabled, the disabled persons of retirement who were unable to obtain a pension, we have preserved it. And I would say social protection is being strengthened at the expense of the State Budget, because there are regulatory moments in terms of that much more than in the Pension Fund, because the Pension Fund is actually a system that works from salary and internship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u68	Please, just sit tight. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is Carmazin. The next one is Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u69	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenka's constituency, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I have determined that the law is needed, that the law is actually aimed at the implementation of the provisions of the National Pension Insurance Act, which we have adopted, which determines the direction of the pension reform. I must warn you that the law can be passed, but it cannot violate human rights and aggravate the situation of people who exist today. In my opinion, these dangers in this law are and are very important. I'm very sorry that even the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, and signed by the Deputy Chief Executive of Shamo and the Executives of Timothy and Paulenko, have not seen what could make human rights worse. And it's a very bad symptom if we skip the laws and there's going to be things like that. That can make people worse. In particular, the project, article 4, provides for the assignment of state social assistance, and this state social assistance is provided to disabled persons who have reached retirement age. I'm going to remind you that this is 60 and 55. At the same time, for individual categories of citizens, existing legislation defines an earlier retirement age. For example, for people with hypophysic nanism, these are lilyputs, disproportional dwarfs, they may be reduced by 15 years, for women who have given birth to five or more children for five years, and for other categories. So what's going to happen to these categories of people? They're just going to come out on your government project with social assistance. This is where you have to make changes. Next. Article 5 — The size of government social assistance to disabled persons. You set this size under the conditions provided for in part four of article four, based on the size of the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs. First group disabled, heroin mothers -- one hundred percent, second group disabled -- 80 percent, and incapacitated pensioners -- 30 percent. Can I live with 30 percent of anyone? And what's the concept of living minimum? And finally, about the wickedness of the finale. I would like to emphasize once again about wickedness. Article 13, paragraph 2, of the final clauses states: Before the economic situation in Ukraine is stabilized. And by what time is this stability going to be? The amount of State social assistance is accordingly determined by taking into account the level of subsistence allowance for those who have lost their jobs. The level of subsistence allowance for those who have lost their jobs is determined by the actual cost of the State budget. Where, then, are the constitutional guarantees to the minimum level of security, respectable welfare? That's why I'm in favour of first reading, but there's a lot and a lot of comments to this law that I wouldn't want to make worse for a Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u70	Vladimir Puzakov, next School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u71	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština One of the painful problems of the incapacitated is the payment of utilities. But how and how can they be paid? Although the state is not at risk here. It was designed as a means of aid, or subsidy. So let's see if it's help or bullying? What housing subsidies are, everyone knows. It has been available to Ukrainian families since May 1995. Everyone realizes that it's not from a good life that a person is going to make a grant, it's clear that it's better to have enough money to pay for community services than to get cash subsidies and worry about whether they're going to pay it again for the next period? But the reality of today's capitalist Ukraine is that people don't have the ability to get a decent salary for their jobs, but they have to pay for their homes, and you're not going anywhere. According to the law, citizens' housing costs should not exceed 20 per cent, and pensioners should have 15. Accordingly, 80 percent or 85 percent of the value of these services to utilities should be compensated by the State. If the utility costs do not come in full and the heat does not reach them, the effect will be to turn off hot water, light, and heat in citizens’ apartments. I mean, the money that's stolen has to be accounted for by simple people who still can't make ends meet. So taking measures like a subsidy is just a bone that's thrown away by a nation that's driven to despair, which is still silently enduring the abuse of a dominant capitalist class. But not all get this subsidy because it's actually not that easy to get. First of all, families that are in debt for residential services are not. Secondly, the subsidy is only available for the health standard -- 21 square meters per person plus 10 per family. And whatever the apartment is, the subsidy is only 31 square meters. Thirdly, if one of the members of the family claiming to be a subsidy in another housing area, then the area is added and taken into account. And fourthly, there will be no subsidy if there is a jobless citizen in the apartment who has at least once refused the job offered to him in the employment service. And that's a dozen. [[in quotes]] That is why nearly 22 percent of all families in the country receive the grant. And yet, when you look at the truth in the eye, you can say that this so-called benefit does not save you from total abuse. People who receive 80 - 120 dollars a month are unable to pay even 20 percent of that amount for an apartment. And today's capitalist conditions force people to choose: either starve to death, but pay for utilities, or be able to eat and run out of light, water, and heat, or be completely thrown out into the street. So tell me, please, what is this: help? Thus, the Law on State Social Assistance for Unemployed Persons should first think about these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u72	Andrew Schlell. Next solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u73	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'd like to stop on this bill in a little bit more detail. Of course, there is no national MP in this room who doesn't understand how much social assistance is needed, how much subsidies and targeted assistance are needed. But let's get into the numbers of this law, just carefully and, as they say, cold blood. We have 80 percent of the cost of living is paid to the disabled of the second group. [[According to Article 4 of this Law]] Third group with disabilities is 60 percent. Persons of retirement age who are not working well, 30 percent of the cost of living at a minimum. The pension provides this livelihood minimum of 15-20 percent, and another 30 percent are provided with subsidies. So once again, we get 50 percent of the living minimum. Do we not understand the declarative nature of this proposed bill? I don't think that's the answer. We can try and discuss many times, but we must fill in the real meaning of social assistance. That's what's important. We need to remember that it should not be done by 30, 20, 15 percent, but by 100 percent primarily, because social assistance is a normal and confident way of looking at the future, because we will all eventually be disabled and retired. And it is now necessary to lay the foundation for the laws that can be implemented. So I have huge warnings about the proposed bill. And the first reading is the rubble we can't get through right away. We need to start reading, discussing, giving the committee the opportunity to work hard, not on the declaration, not on the desire to help, but on the law and for real help. So let's be honest about how we can calculate the payment of 80, 60 or 30 percent of the cost of living. And only one standard is to have a heroine and a first-group invalidity, which is already extraordinary, people who can't and their loved ones can't make any more money for their lives, the livelihood minimum is 100 percent. And once again, you have to take enough time to calculate the minimum of living, because you can calculate it one by one, and one by one, because there are different regions, and different approaches. But I would like to conclude by stressing that it is in vain to demand love for the people of someone who does not love him, hates him, and despises him. And when they call me in the district, they say, "Give it to the President, give it to him somewhere else." I'm saying, you know, my dear voters, I can tell the President, but I'm telling you right now from him that he doesn't love you, he despises you, and in most cases he doesn't know about your existence. And so I'm not convinced that even quality law, and we're going to make it quality, it's going to be implemented, and it's going to be signed by today's President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u74	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u75	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Once again, the bourgeois Supreme Council discusses a bourgeois law that aims to improve the fate of the disadvantaged. In a few arguments and facts, I will give the meaning of my thought. First of all, this refers to low security as a condition for providing assistance. This is defined in sub-paragraph 4 of the first paragraph. This situation requires harmonization with the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for low-income families, since this law provides for other principles of social assistance, not in the fixed part of the subsistence minimum, as mentioned here, and as already discussed in the negative statements of the two previous deputies, but in the size of the difference between the subsistence minimum for the family and its average monthly total income. So wherever you go, there's a wedge everywhere. State social assistance to disabled persons is proposed to set a minimum of living for those who have lost their jobs. It was emphasized and rightly emphasized that how can we take another percentage of what is the minimum of living? You and I were discussing a bill yesterday that was presented by the Ministry of Internal Affairs concerning the detention of stateless persons who had illegally entered Ukraine. And I've been paying attention yesterday, and today I'm going to announce again, where the Ministry of Internal Affairs is offering a minimum of 19 bracelets to keep the person alive, which is about 600 dollars a month for 30 days. And this is to make Ukraine look like a civilized state. And I'm asking that question. What, then, are our citizens, who are to be provided with pensions and other forms of social assistance, not European citizens? No, I guess not. Then that's exactly what I'm suggesting. the article of the law removes the sentence "from the size of the minimum of living," and amends it with the sentence "from the size of the minimum to the receiving of non-citizens who have illegally entered Ukraine and which is 19 bracelets per day or 600 bracelets per month". Under this condition, this law can be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u76	Thank you. Let's talk about it. We have plenty of time to consider this issue, but if they insist on speaking, should we give it as a general rule? There's no insistence? Let's move on to the next question. With regard to this issue, the vote will take place in accordance with the Rules. A draft law on the corporateization of state enterprises is proposed for consideration. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Economics and European Integration, First Vladimir Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law on the corporateization of state enterprises is proposed. This bill is designed to implement article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. The corporateization of businesses in Ukraine was initiated as early as 1993, according to the President’s decree of June 15. According to the decree of 2 years 1993-1994, nearly 1,200 enterprises were corporateized. Today, corporate business needs an emergency settlement because the President's decree does not extend to enterprises that are not privatized. Briefly on the essence of the project. It envisages further improvements in the mechanism for reforming the public sector of the economy, adapting state-owned enterprises to market conditions, preparing enterprises for privatization, increasing the responsibility of enterprises for their economic activities. The bill provides for the regulation of the legal, economic and organisational conditions of corporate enterprise, including those prohibited from privatization. The authorization of the general meeting of shareholders to make decisions on privatization is given to the founder of the shareholder association or to another executive body designated by the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, a monitoring board, involving representatives of an authority authorized to manage the assets of an enterprise, a local executive body, and a business team, is playing a significant role in the management of corporate interests. A special legal regime is being established for assets transferred to statutory open-stock funds created by corporations of enterprises that are not privatized. First of all, the core funds that form part of a whole property complex of enterprises that are not privatised by law are transferred to a statutory society fund without the right to alienate them for the benefit of third parties. The law on the recovery or bankruptcy of the debtor is applied to them after being excluded from the list of companies banned from privatization. As a result of this law, the adoption of this law will allow for a level playing field for state and non-state business entities, which will speed up the reform of the public administration system by reducing the administrative functions of the branch ministries and other central executive authorities. The corporate form of production organization will increase the responsibility of state-owned enterprises for their economic performance. Very briefly, the experience that exists is similar to that of corporations in other countries. The relevant laws are, function in the Russian Federation, Poland, Hungary, Kazakhstan. For example, in the Russian Federation, these issues are regulated by the Law on Privatization of State and Municipal Property, which provides that 100 percent of shares held by State-owned shareholders in the first general congregations are entrusted with the authorization of the general assemblies by the founder of the privatization body. We have considered the proposals and observations made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. This issue was addressed by the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property, and Investments of the Supreme Council. Most of these proposals are supported and we ask you to adopt this bill in the first reading and in order to take all the proposals into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions. Light up, please. Rodionov, next Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u79	Communist faction, Rodionov. Please tell me, do you have a project to report today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u80	I've been identified as a reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u81	Then I have one more question. Would you please tell me the law you're proposing right now that he's deciding what he's doing with just a citizen working for this company?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u82	Then I'll start with your first question. You asked me if I should report it or not. We were really supposed to report the Umanski Igor Ivanovich, but we don't have him working at the Ministry of Economics, so I'm assigned. With regard to the question of what gives the adoption of this law to a simple citizen, I mentioned at the outset that the adoption of this law extends the rights of state-owned enterprises, enterprises in the state-owned economy, in the management of their property. That's the main thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u83	Mikhailo Pavlovsky, next Kalinczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u84	Thank you. Vladimir Leonidovich, I have two questions. First. This is probably what you used to prepare in the President's letter that privatized enterprises are 18 percent less efficient than state-owned enterprises. That's one thing. And secondly, please tell us, what is the direction when you propose in the law to pass on to third parties, unknown to what, the administration? On the other hand, what does this law really do? Will it just reduce the budget? You don't want that. Then what do we achieve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is exactly what it does not allow the transfer of property to third parties. This is the first time. And second of all, I was trying to answer the first question of the distinguished People's Deputy Rodionov that this bill was meant to expand the rights of state-owned enterprises, make them more competitive in terms of enterprises that are privatized or already privatized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u86	Vasil Calinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u87	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Reverend Vladimir Leonidovich! You know, the Supreme Council of the Third Council had already considered this bill, but it didn't back it up at the time. Now I have this question: have you taken into account the comments that were already made by the deputies of the third call? That's the first question. And the second question is, does it take into account whether this bill extends to the law on the characteristics of privatization of enterprises belonging to the APC? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u88	Thank you. Well, first of all, with regard to taking into account the previous composition of the Supreme Council, you know that I just answered you purely documentaryly, I'm trying, it's 3354, registered on April 9th in the Supreme Council, and of course we're maximum. This year, this year. And we tried our best to take note of everyone who was. What's more, I'm going to say that there are, and, uh, there have been observations by both the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and on the Committee of the Supreme Council, we've been looking at a lot of questions, such as suggestions, comments. For example, we don't insist that Mineconomy be the main organ that defines it. Of course, since both names can change, and so on, we don't mind just being the designated state central authority of executive power. And with regard to APC enterprises, you know, it's clearly written there, which is not corporate. Of course, APC companies also have the opportunity to be corporate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u89	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u90	Dearly respected by the Government of Leonidovic, please state that according to the bill, the corporateization of public enterprises is a concept such as the value of their assets, which should not exceed 1200 minimum wages, i.e. 231,000, 250 bracelets. First, where did this threshold come from, and what logic was there? And secondly, what about those who have more? Doesn't it work out what you can do, well, let's just say, who wants anything? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u91	Thank you. Well, that's the threshold of computation. You can, of course, if you have any suggestions, change them. And with regard to what you said, the second question, I don't see any violation of the rights of enterprises that don't fall within the corporate scope of this law today -- the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Time's up. Associates the head of the committee’s subcommittee on economic policy, national governance, ownership, and investment, Oleg Anatoliyovich Krylov. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, let's work without interruptions. Agreed? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u93	The Committee on Economic Policy, Public Administration, Property and Investment considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Corporateization of State Enterprises, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. He considered, found a number of omissions, but nevertheless decided to accept it on first reading as a basis and to elaborate on second reading on an option that would be acceptable. The bill applies to public enterprises included in the list of public property rights that are not privatized but can be corporateized. Thus, we have so far had a range of enterprises to be corporateized, but the corporate procedure has not been clearly defined. The bill provides for a clearer corporate procedure, a monitoring board, a corporate commission, and corporate governance. Once again, there are points that must be finalized on second reading. The opinion of the Committee is to be adopted as a basis for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u94	Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up. Matthew Valentin Josephovich, next to Abramenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u95	Pass on the word of Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u96	Solomon’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. You said that you had certain comments that they should be taken into account in further processing of this bill, but no comment was made on the substance of these observations. Please open two of the most important comments from your point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u98	First. The bill provides for the transfer of the administration of natural and legal persons. With regard to individuals, you and I understand what this may lead to. If objects are transferred to a person under cost control at a gigantic cost, then there is nothing to answer, and the person is not responsible. We've already talked about it, and we all know we can't do it. Plus. Second. We need to work more fully on the realisation of assets, shares that have already become part of corporate enterprises. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers is able to trade on its own without the holdmein fund. We must do more, and I believe that this law will allow us to prescribe in it with you, the deputies, your proposals, the proposals of the members of the Committee on Economic Policy, to prescribe these provisions so that we can close this gap in the law, in the legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u99	Vladimir Fedorovich Avramenko, next to Kostenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u100	Dear Oleg Anatolyevich, these issues are regulated today by the President's decree. This bill, which we are considering today, is, in my view, in depth. And it is precisely the bill that we are talking about that we need to work on the quality of the bills. If in this bill that we are proposing to raise this issue to a higher level, and we are saying that an authorized body can refer matters to a legal or a natural person, then I do not understand the depth of the bill. We will never raise the level of legislative work to a higher quality; the villages will approve such bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u101	It's basically a corporate bill. And the main thrust of the bill is to prescribe the corporate procedure that is going on today, but is not detailed. That's the first one. Management issues, I believe, can be put outside this bill at all. We had a bill that we voted with you not long ago, it's on government property management. As far as depth is concerned, it's up to you and me. On second reading, we can do whatever we want.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u102	Please, Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u103	Dear reporter! It is known that corporate activity in the state takes place for 10 years because it is regulated today by the President’s decree of 1993. I have this question: "Does the committee have information, how many companies have been corporateized in our country in 10 years? How many were privatized?" How can you estimate the amount of income these enterprises have given to the state budget, and do you have information about jobs and the dynamics of job changes since the enterprise moved from purely state-owned to corporate and then privatized?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u104	Unfortunately, I can't name the numbers, I'll tell you the general dynamic. In principle, of course, you're right about that. I mean, we've been considering the fact that cooperatives often form out of 15, 10, 20, 30 per cent of the shares, dumping all the garbage in the holdmain Foundation and not privatized. It has often been established as an analogue of ministries that have been abolished. Neither the financial results nor the real impact on the economy have come. And it happens quite often.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u105	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u106	Dear Oleg Anatolievich, I am unfortunately not satisfied with the reply of the previous rapporteur. I'm giving it to you. All right. There's a ceiling of 231,000 bracelets, which is the maximum property complex and that's the maximum corporateization. By those who don't get under this ceiling. What's next? If the answer, as the previous rapporteur replied, is not impaired, I have a question — and why should I do so if the interests of enterprises are not impaired without it? So what happens to those above the ceiling who have 231,000 bracelets? On what legislative basis will their property exist or change their status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u107	The bill that we are considering is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. And you did the right thing by addressing the first question to the Cabinet of Ministers. Our task is to make it a more or less normal bill in second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, just sit tight. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is Bartkivu. The next school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u109	Dear Hennaday Andryovich! Dear colleagues! The issue of privatization and privatization of state-owned enterprises is a long-standing and topical issue, as mentioned in this room, has been repeatedly addressed. It also draws attention to the fact that today the issue of the dispossession of state property is regulated by many regulations, presidential decrees, Cabinet regulations, and so forth. As it seems, the drafting and adoption of a law to regulate these relations should contribute to the stability of the regulation concerned, to the improvement of the level and to the quality of legal regulation of corporate enterprises. But if we look more closely at the article of the proposed project, we will see that it will preserve much of today’s legal regulation. In fact, respectable colleagues, all the important issues that are proposed to be addressed by this law, are referred to the jurisdiction of Kabmin and are scheduled to decide on the relevant acts of Kabmin. That is to say that this law will actually have a framework character and the meaning of such a law will be largely overturned. But according to article 74, part seven, of the master code of Ukraine, which will take effect on 1 January of the following year, the cases and order of corporations of state enterprises should be determined by laws rather than by acts of Kabmin, as proposed in the project. It's a fundamental question. And there's a slow-acting bomb. Consider the article of the fifth project, which should regulate the characteristics of company management created by corporate enterprise. Part one of the first article of the management function of the company relies on the State Property Fund or other executive bodies, which, in the order established, are delegated by the Cabinet to the administration of state corporate acts. Then there's more. This authorized body may, in turn, delegate functions to individuals and legal persons without any restrictions imposed by law, because the order of transfer is re-established by the government. Next question. Let us see how the composition of the governing body of this association is formed. According to part of the third article of the fifth project, the Watch Tower Society’s Watch Tower Society’s Monitoring Council approves the personal composition of the administration of the head office of the company. In fact, the participation of workers, the participation of small shareholders, in forming society’s rule, is being eliminated. Secondly, the people who can enter the company are limited to the officials of the enterprise. You can imagine at what level the rights of the average small shareholders and the interests of the state in general will be taken into account. I would just like to remind the authors that according to the second transitional provision of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, the law in question will cease to be valid at all. That is, it would be necessary to correct the reference to the position of this law in such a way as not to list its articles. I propose that this law be corrected for rereading the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u110	Please, Andrew School. Next up is Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u111	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. As I continue to repeat the previous speaker, I say that this bill can be sent back to the first, but perhaps even better, it would be rejected. Because for one thing, we need to understand that this is one of those imperfect bills that is being submitted to the Supreme Council. His imperfection is that he wants to catch up with the President's decision to corporateize businesses. And that's the whole point of this law. Although there is a lot of writing about what corporate enterprises are, it's an enterprise that's transformed from a state-owned company into an open stock company. It's not the right thing to do. It's the wrong thing to do. It's the right thing to do. And generally, the law is unclear, there is a lot of water and things that are completely misunderstood. It forms a supervisory council that it is a body for which it is informed, which is a target and very unclear, which means a poorly prescribed function. So to speak, I'm surprised at the committee that defends this bill, which finds, as it turns out, some inadequacies, but still offers to be accepted in the first reading. The first reading is to adopt the strategy and strategy of this bill. This is unacceptable. I'd like to say no and invite the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare a good-quality bill, because from this, it says here, you can only leave a name. Because the name is normal. Everything else doesn't answer, so the content doesn't match that name. Perhaps we can talk about whether an enterprise can invest its assets to obtain credits in a bank? It can't, it's not prescribed again. And then what is the purpose of turning one form of property into another? The President's wish? Well, then, what is the name of these desires? Because the Latins say, "What project is it for who?" And by confessing to whom it is convenient, we are well aware that the benefits are not the State but its individual representatives. And so I would like to emphasize that this bill deserves only to be said here by a few negative words, to wish all the best initiators and to take the word from them that more of a similar quality of drafts will not come to the Supreme Council. And the time I have left, I would like to have my colleague, the national deputy Pavlovski, if not from here, at least to have one minute out of place, Hennadi Andriyovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u112	There's no time. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u113	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Dear National Deputies! There are several approaches to the adoption of this law. From what Deputy Nadrag rightly referred to today, which rightly asked the absolute question that the law is issued only for enterprises that are subject to corporations under this law whose value does not exceed the sum. equivalent to 1,250 minimum wage, today 231 thousand. 250 bucks. In Kiev it's the price of a two-room apartment, in Kiev, I emphasize. So consider this a very narrow circle. But what I'd like to do is support a lot of arguments from the National Deputy of School, and I'd like to say that the absence of this law seems to me that the law is passed on purpose with such quality. But what is done, incorporated into the agenda and started hearing, opens up a wide range of opportunities for Parliament to take the initiative. And it's good that she is. And I will call you, both you and I will vote you for the first reading, and I will tell you why. My arguments are. No, I'll make the argument first, and you'll agree. The fact is that by this time all corporate enterprises have been governed by Presidential Decree 210 since 1993. Then the President creates a new legal field -- he issues a decree on holding companies formed in the process of privatization and corporateization -- this is Decree 224 of 1994. That is, the President created the entire legal field that is in operation today, and the Parliament does not want to take over and set the rules of the game. Now look at what this law says: "In the company formed by the corporation of the observation board." It would seem, but write down the authority of the observation board, as we have done in many other laws - and there are no questions! But what does the government do? The government writes, "The type of position about it is confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Why is this necessary? Manual control is required. So all things must be clearly named by their names. And not only in this case, but also in many articles where you re-authorize the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in this bill. For example, in article 4, the corporation is in order. Next by text, then you point out, you perpetuate the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Economics, in terms of European integration. Or will it be changed by the President tomorrow? So we have to change the name. So you have to change your approach to this law, but it's possible within the second reading. If it doesn't work, then we'll fall on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u114	Please, Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u115	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština After considering the Ukrainian Law on Corporateization of State Enterprises, one can conclude, and my colleagues have already said that we have again prepared a document, norms and legal principles of a declarative nature. In particular, Article 4 should clearly define the order of corporate conduct and the list of clearly defined documents to be submitted by the corporate entity and set up a sample of these documents to be added to the list. In general, such a law should be in Ukraine. But part two of article 4 also needs to be noted not by listing articles of other laws of Ukraine, but by clearly establishing restrictions on the prohibition of any action concerning the property of state enterprises that are subject to corporations. Because in this way, the law is simply banqueting, that is, sending it to other sources of law. Article 4, paragraph 5, states that the subject is a successor. But this concept is common. And it is important that the law clearly rediscover the boundaries of succession, such as receivables, creditors' debt. And so it doesn't happen, for example, in a state-owned enterprise, there's a government debt. And from this law, we all have to understand on whose shoulders this burden will be translated into just one sentence of the proposed bill. Part two of article 6(2) of the draft law, in my view, allows the founder's practically dictatorial right to create a corporate commission by fraudulent means, bypassing the State Property Fund, local executive authorities and so on. This is also a back-up report on the commission's creation, and so on, which, in turn, will lead to total vacchanalism in the corporateization of state-owned enterprises. Or, in other words, state enterprises will move into the jurisdiction of interested private enterprises that actually already own these state-owned enterprises. Therefore, I personally believe that this draft law of Ukraine needs to be returned to work without being adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u116	Please, Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u117	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. The bourgeois government introduced a new bill to the bourgeois Supreme Council of Ukraine aimed at improving the management conditions of the private owner. This is the essence of this bill. And we can avoid referring to individual articles and their shortcomings, legal imperfections, and so forth, and so forth. One of the main flaws, as our colleague, King Olegyovich, pointed out in answer to my question, is that the individuals and legal persons in this bill are balanced. Even if the committee manages this in some way, then the legislators are interested, or on the part of the government, in adapting the bill in such a way that legal persons are created on the basis of this law. And for example, some company called the Protector of Parenthood will successfully pass through the Kabmin and will be next to the state-owned property to be dragged under certain conditions into its private property. Thus, it is impossible to cure what limps on both legs. This bill cannot even be adopted on a basis. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has already been defined once on this subject, and we hope that we, the faction of Communists, will do just as the Supreme Council of Ukraine will in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u118	Bogdan Costinjuk. Please follow the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u119	The People's Movement of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Bogdan Kostinuk. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. It is known that the corporation of state enterprises is the first step towards privatizing them. And at first glance, we may need such a law, because today privatization is actually, for 10 years, on the basis of the President's decree. But there are general comments to the bill because it seems that the authors simply copied the above - mentioned decree by making minor claims to it. I find it legally invalid in the bill to refer to other laws, such as the Law on Economic Societies or the Law on Entrepreneurship, forgetting that since January 1, 2004, the Civil Code and the Code of Hostages have entered into force. It is not right in the project to refer to the name of the central executive authorities, given that the President has the right to change their name in the process of reorganizing them. Now, according to the text of the bill. The project provides for a monitoring board of shareholders, while the new Civil Code provides for a supervisory board, and its functions are clearly defined. The management functions of the enterprise are to be performed by the State Property Fund, not by other executive authorities, as foreseen in the project. So it is inappropriate for authorized authorities to transfer functions for the administration of state corporate rights to natural persons, as indicated in the first project paragraph of Article 5. And it's not necessarily the function of the head of the shareholders' government to rely on the head of the corporate enterprise, as reflected in Article 5, second paragraph. They should not be included in the Supervisory Board of Representatives of Banking Institutions and Other Non-State Authorities and Organizations, since only representatives of state-owned institutions can exercise control over the activities of government. Dear National Deputies! In 10 years of privatization and corporateism in Ukraine, hundreds of enterprises have been privatized, but we don't know any cases, no examples of successful privatization of large enterprises. In the people, it's called acceptance. And this law should not promote acceptance. Thus, today it is possible to impose restrictions in this same law on the corporateization of state - owned strategic enterprises, which today bring large profits to the public execution. We're saying that we need to do inventory of all the property that's been corporateized, and then privatized. The investment commitments of privatized enterprises have to be verified. In the Transitional Situations, the introduction of this law should be foreseen in the future not earlier than 2005, and it should now be sent for further processing by the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u120	Please, Valentina Seminouk and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u121	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! This bill, which is first of all based on two factors: that there is a presidential decree that does not actually have a limit on the cost of objects. And corporateism goes through large enterprises, especially strategically designed enterprises, and by transferring the data to the task force, no one actually asked the State how the object is effectively managed. An example is the Ukratnafta, where an object worth $450 million is overestimated by 159 million, that is, the state lost $300 million in one object. After that, the labour force has a supervisory board, and appropriate powers, are transferred to buildings and separate rental buildings, free of charge for 20 years, for 30 years. There are terrible damage to the state and no one is responsible for it. It's called the President's corporate decree, which is today. Hence, when it comes to the bill today, it can be said that it is a handcuff to put on a visa when it is necessary to cover up objects and not to answer for them. Thus, when we accept such appropriate documents, we should first ask today in the Cabinet of Ministers, and yet why a veto was imposed on the Law of Ukraine, developed by the Supreme Council, on the administration of public property. But because we have to stretch things out first, and then say that we're going to control something. So I'm talking about this bill today, and I want to say that we have to go back to the government property management law first, and immediately, because according to the Civil Code, which comes into force on 1 January 2004, the administration of public property objects in general is not going to be able to manage either the State Property Fund or the Cabinet of Ministers, because there is the following record that the subject is governed by a separate law. Therefore, it is necessary to go back to the law on the administration of public property, to complete the adoption of the law on municipal property, and then to discuss the drafting of the law on corporate property. Because this law, first of all, is a hindrance to the President's decree, and after the adoption of this law, the President's decree must end in its final position. Because such damage is suffered by the state, especially by the President's decree on corporateism, those materials that are now being considered on a special control committee are said. I think that the members of the Supreme Council, especially the leaders of groups and factions, will be able to get to know the result of corporateism on individual objects that we have already done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u122	Please, Michael Pavlovsky, one minute and we're done. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u123	Pavlovski, faction of the Yulia Block Timoshenko, Hmeljnična Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw attention to such moments, Carmazin, first of all, because he speaks very often. We need to understand the fineness of the Rules. The first reading is almost, we have experience, it doesn't change anything, and the first reading again, we can change the structure, we can change everything, and it's in the hands of the Supreme Council. When we reject it, we send it to the government, and it's not able to write normal laws. So once again, the first reading is the only way to make normal laws. That's the first one. The other one. Finally, Mineconomy proved that it cannot deal with strategic issues and act in the interests of the state. So you have to change the central authority. And not the Mineconomy here, but the Ministry of Industrial Policy, so you can actually make industrial policy. That's what it's for. The State Property Fund, the Mineconomy, they're helping the Ministry in this situation, not the main ones. And in the end, it's about governance. What kind of management is it when it is passed on by some natural persons? I want to formulate a law for the preservation of economic governance for the economy and European integration. If Earth's globe is underdeveloped, and we're part of it, they don't run their businesses as far as they don't run, so far as they're concerned, I'm going to run transnational companies and developed countries. Then we need to conclude. And given that I have other proposals here, I think we need to do it again first. And we can make a normal law that will defend national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u124	Thank you. Question completed. As far as the vote is concerned, it will take place according to the rules. Dear colleagues, we can now move on to the next question. But we must have the head of the Medliss of the country of Iran here in due course. Let's wait one minute and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to announce that today there is a delegation of the Majlis Islamic Council, Islamic Republic of Iran, headed by His Majesty, Mehdi Kyarrubi. A high guest is now present in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On your behalf, allow me to welcome Mr. Mehdi Kyarrubi to the Supreme Council and invite him to the address. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, please take advantage of the opportunity to listen to the translation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u126	In the name of Allah, the Most Merciful, the Most Merciful. Your Honour, Mr. Litwin, honourable deputies! For me and the delegation accompanying me on a visit to a beautiful country in Ukraine, meeting with this highly educated people and honourable deputies in the Supreme Council is a very important moment. I am very pleased to be associated with the distinguished deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is one of the active parliaments in Europe. Parliament is a home of the nation, a symbol of the will and sovereignty of the people and a high position in all countries of the world. We are convinced that freedom to elect MPs and to form parliament is the most important factor in the progress of countries and the well-being of the peoples. The existence of differences of opinion in all parliaments is quite natural, and this is a characteristic of the democratic system. From this point of view, you may be developing appropriate mechanisms to achieve national interests. Dear colleagues, the Islamic Republic of Iran, located at the crossroads of Europe and Asia, has a unique geopolitical position. Thanks to the availability of rich oil and gas resources, the importance of this situation is doubled. The Islamic Republic of Iran is today the second oil exporting country among OPEC member states and has the world's largest gas reserves since Russia. At present, Iran is in very specific and vulnerable conditions because of its geographical position from a political point of view. The Middle East crisis, the Iraqi and Afghan problems, as well as the existing conflicts in Karabakh, which are of particular importance, puts Iran in a very important place. Undoubtedly, the desire to solve these problems has doubled the importance of the sensitivity of Iran’s external political activities and has increased its role in the affirmation of peace and security in this great region. Based on policies aimed at eliminating tensions and respect for the right of States to national sovereignty, as well as respect for the territorial integrity of Iraq and Afghanistan, preventing any kind of interference in the internal affairs of these countries, the Islamic Republic of Iran supports the strengthening of stability under UN control and the call for a general vote with a view to adopting a decision on the future sovereignty of these countries. With regard to the two major global challenges of the modern world — terrorism and nuclear weapons — the Islamic Republic of Iran believes that terrorism in its various forms is a global challenge that threatens all elements of international cooperation. The fight against this scourge requires partnership between all countries and the adoption of the only universal way out of the United Nations. So it's worth trying to reach common agreement on the accepted definition of terrorism and to prevent a number of countries from taking a selective and two-pronged approach to it. With regard to nuclear technology, it should be recalled that on the basis of the provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, access to nuclear technology for peaceful purposes is an undeniable right in the world. And countries that own these technologies have to help other countries get these technologies. The Islamic Republic of Iran, as opposed to the creation and proliferation of nuclear weapons, demands the release of the world, especially the Middle East and the Middle East, from such weapons. At the same time, the Islamic Republic of Iran considers nuclear technology to be essential and essential for the development of countries. With appropriate powers, the Islamic Republic of Iran continues to develop its scientific knowledge in the nuclear field for the purpose of peaceful use. With these conditions in mind, our President proposed a dialogue between civilizations and the idea of a coalition in the name of peace in the face of a coalition in the name of war and called for refraining from violence and war and spreading the idea of dialogue. In international relations. The Islamic Republic of Iran has taken effective steps on this path. Yet it is not possible to reap the fruits of such an important idea without effective cooperation from other parts of the world. As an important basis for international cooperation, the UN has a unique role to play in establishing world peace and stability. Iran, supporting and cooperating with the organization, was one of the first to manifest himself as an example of such cooperation in the matter. Tajikistan's problems. The Islamic Republic of Iran gives special importance to multifaceted regional cooperation and strong ties between nations. Iran is convinced that regional institutions in today’s and tomorrow’s world are in full. play a major role. As you know, Iran is an active member of organizations such as OPEC, ECO, the Asian Pacific Council, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, TI-8. and wants to cooperate in this area with GUUAM, PACES, and to expand such cooperation. The North-South Transport Corridor, which is a special technical-economic issue, an example of this kind of institution. Iran supports the development of this corridor. At a previous meeting in the presence of Ukraine and other countries, Iran welcomed its expansion, resulting in the approval of Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan's declaration to join the corridor. Ladies and gentlemen! The Islamic Republic of Iran attaches particular importance to the development of relations with its neighbours, looks at the SND countries in the eyes of the neighbor, sees a deepening of relations with them as one of the priorities of its foreign policy and seeks to expand relations with those countries. We see no obstacles to expanding our relationship with these countries and are ready to cooperate with them as much as they are allowed to. On this path, Ukraine is friendly to us because of its scientific and industrial capabilities, and we are ready to continue. Because the lack of uncertainty and the relationship between our countries and the existence of different spheres of cooperation, also the mutual understanding of the high leaders of our nations suggests the need for an expansion of bilateral relations, and this can visibly increase the potential for cooperation between the two countries. The Islamic Republic of Iran became one of the first states to officially recognize Ukraine’s independence on December 25, 1991, and on January 22, 1992, began to open its embassy in its beautiful capital. In our view, this independence stems from the national and historical need of the ancient people of Ukraine and has been established without interference from the outside. Official visits to senior leaders of two countries, political consultations on various bilateral regional and international issues, parliamentary cooperation, joint production of AN-140 passenger aircraft, the creation of a joint commission of trade and economic cooperation and the holding of three meetings, the conclusion of agreements on economic cooperation between a number of areas of Ukraine and the provinces of Iran. The importance of reviving trade exchanges, sending Iranian students to Ukraine, establishing ties with universities, exchanging sports delegations, participating in annual exhibitions, sending trade, creative teams to Ukraine, teaching Persian at various universities in Ukraine, studying Persian by 800 Ukrainian students -- all of this speaks of the determination and will of senior leaders and the mutual interest of the peoples of two countries in exploiting existing potentials for further expansion of bilateral cooperation. Despite the development of relationships in the general spheres, our countries have much more opportunities to use their material and spiritual potential than the existing achievements in the field. Therefore, we need to consider the other potential that the unfulfilled results of which may be the maximum benefit of the two countries, the development, the strengthening and deepening of the relationship between us. It is certain that the beneficial and constructive negotiations that we will conduct in the course of this visit will open up new relationships between our countries, resulting in a higher level of relations between the two countries, especially in the field of parliamentary cooperation, which will guarantee the strengthening of the interrelationship between Tehran and Kiev. The Islamic Republic of Iran considers the ratification by the Ukrainian Parliament of a treaty on the basis of relations and the principles of cooperation between the two countries signed during the visit of our President of our country, the determination and will of the friendly country of Ukraine to strengthen the contractual legal framework for relations between the two countries. That is why the Majlis of the Islamic Council of Iran ratified the treaty at the beginning of the place of honor. We hope that on the basis of this document and through the implementation of all the memorandums of understanding and agreements, we will deepen our mutual relations. In view of the foregoing, we are pressing the hand of friendship and development in Ukraine’s friendly country, asking the Most High God for a gift to the dedicated people of Ukraine of happiness and well - being, and I wish the distinguished deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine happiness and further victories in their service to the people. Your Majesty, Mr. Volodymyr Litwin, I take this opportunity to thank you once again for giving me the opportunity to speak, as well as for the warm and sincere. On your part, that of the great high cultural people of Ukraine. I hope that in the course of your future visit to Iran, a strong basis for mutual cooperation will be further strengthened, and we will witness the continued prosperity of the relationship between the two countries. Thank you for your patience and your desire for further victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u127	Dear National Deputies! We thank the high guest for the meaningful presentation, and we wish the Majlis of the Islamic Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the entire Iranian delegation present here, a pleasant stay on the hospitable Ukrainian land.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of matters. It is proposed to consider the draft law on the organs of justice, 2152. Reported by Ukrainian National Deputy Private Alexander Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor Hennady Andryovich. Dear colleagues, the fact is that this bill has been known to you for a long time, it was introduced in the third summons, for a long time not considered, then returned to work. The essence of it is what we propose, the authors of the bill propose to organize the system of executive organs that are called upon to perform the functions of justice in our state. Clearly, the issue is not only about the Ministry of Justice, the functions of the Ministry of Justice, because the organs of justice are in places such as civil registration agencies and other judicial bodies. I would like to stress that the desire to draft this bill has been influenced by repeated calls from all those returning from the Council of Europe that there is no need for the Ministry of Prisons to have a civil system that needs to have a civilian system, not a militarized system for the calculation and registration of citizens, that everything needs to be done as it is in Europe. And what's interesting is that every time the authors and I, including me, respond to this call and play it in a legislative way, they come into the House of People's Deputies, which we don't see for a very long time, and they say it's okay, but we need to look at the basics of principles. As I prepare and realize that this will be the case today, I would like to focus on two aspects of what we are doing in the first place and why this bill is already being criticized, if not in the hall, in the clocks. First, and most importantly, we suggest that, like in all European countries, we do it, we do it in a non-bilitarized system, and we do it in a civil registration system, which is to transfer the authorities of visas and registrations from the Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Ministry of Justice. That's what's causing it, well, I wouldn't want to use that word, but resistance to internal affairs, because it's traditionally a department that's always been in this ministry. The second moment, I remind you, is that the history of this issue is quite complex and long, we are not the only state in the world where the Ministry of Prisons remains separate. As we entered the Council of Europe, we made a commitment to subordinate the system of execution of sentences to the body of justice. Twice this has been done by the Cabinet of Ministers and the President's decrees, but then this system has changed. In this bill, we propose to organize a system of relations, in accordance with our obligations to join the Council of Europe, according to the policy that was announced immediately after the adoption of the Constitution, and to subordinate the justice ministry to a system of execution. It is clear that criticism on this side is even sharper, even more destructive, both with regard to the authors of the project and the proposed system at all. It's two intrigues, and everything else, they agree on everything else, although I think the main thing in the project is that we would like to have an organ that is not only in accordance with the situation, but also in accordance with the law that is planning legal policy so that we don't have to be witnesses and have to spend hours discussing those bills that are unknown to those who are cooking, not to mention the quality of them and putting them into the system. I mean, we want the Ministry of Justice to act as a planner if you want, and a coordinator of the development of our nation's legislation, including through the task of adapting legislation to the requirements of the European system, if we are going to Europe, not in the other direction. It seems that we have made no other decision. And so the adoption of the second reading of the Law on the Adaptation of Legislation shows that we need an appropriate body, and we just don't have one in the system, so it's the Ministry of Justice, and it's doing these functions. understanding that criticism will be a lot for this bill, and I understand that. and, above all, because two departments are subordinated to the Ministry of Justice, I call for a balanced approach to this bill. It's got some problems, I understand them. He's old. You see, there's a secretary of state. I prepared it and wrote it when the secretary of state existed. I couldn't do it anymore, because, well, the situation was this: I had to call off, I had to bring in a new one. I'd like to have a statement on this bill in the hall. It's up to you. If we reform the system according to European standards, it needs to be reformed. If not, we will wait. Just as it happened, by the way, with the authorities registering individuals. I've been criticized for a long time that's kind of a democratic project, but it's got a reaction, but it's still the same thing, and it's both there and there, and it's now being done by internal affairs. So we haven't changed anything, even though we're going to declare it. We have the desire, the authors of the bill, to change, sort, make transparent, real, as it is in Europe. If you support this, the drafters will be grateful for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u130	Please sign up for the question. Please explain. That's right. John's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u131	Please pass the word to Lechchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u132	Lechchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u133	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Alexandre Viktorovich, do you think that this will be a considerable effort on the Ministry of Justice if it is not able to implement court decisions today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u134	Vladimir Alexiyovich, well, you know, we can criticize. Let me give you an example. It's not the first day we've met in this room. If we've criticized the Ministry of Justice, by the way, the Department of State's decision-making, it's under the order of the Ministry of Justice, before the coming of the Honourable Minister of Justice, 30 percent of the court's decisions were made, we've now come up with 80 percent figures. To demand that all of this is a merit and a minister of justice, we are grateful to him. But remember, I may not remember speaking here when we talked about the 2003 budget. If we finance the executive system by 10 percent of what we need, and we demand that the executive system execute judgements, we're actually driving ourselves into the corner. I think it's the Ministry of Justice's problem, and not only is it our problem, we need to make a decision. We're building a police force, and I'm here to do that, and this is another step that will also be criticized, I understand, by the police executing court decisions. Because that's not possible. You know, up to 70 percent of the court rulings today, and that's a very serious figure. The Minister of Justice can confirm or disprove it, she's confusing me, 70 percent of the court's decisions don't work themselves. I'll remind you that 10 years ago, what was different, let's say the court system, we could have criticized her for being a phone law system. But the decisions of the courts were made voluntarily by the parties. Today, 70 percent are not being implemented on their own. That is to say, they should be carried out in the appropriate service, and they should be financed. Now we're doing it in the budget project. And I think, well, let's say that there's a philosophical problem, you need to, in your mind, it doesn't exist. If we look at this problem, let's say in terms of funding, it's up to us. In another sense, this depends, including on the organization, on the legislation. I do it in law or we do it with the authors. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u135	Please, Sergey Ivanov. Sergey Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u136	Alexander Victorovich, I have a lot of questions about this bill. But I would like to pay attention to how you and everyone in the room is present. I'm sure each of you has encountered the moment we went to register a car at the MREO GAI, approached it, and the girl who sits there on the printer immediately asks 70-80 bracelets for what she's printing on her form, not you. And so, by reading some of the provisions of the law, for example, I don't like it, and how would you comment that the Ministry of Justice has the right to form and run enterprises, institutions and organizations to facilitate the performance of their duties? Well, what are we going to face? We're probably going to do the same thing now that we're building a bunch of business structures with the Ministry of Justice, and we're already in conflict when he was a confiscated, and what will that lead to? And at the same time, we want these to be public servants, we want this to be a state structure, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u137	Sergey Anatoliyovich, when Gavrilo Gartonovich Popov in the 1st article, this was back in the 1980s, he was still the mayor of Moscow, he wrote about the merger of the state system and then other cooperatives that would cause every DAI employee to get their eyes on fire when a private taxi comes in, and that would lead to the corresponding consequences that we have in mind, including now, and you in your own question. So the co-existence of the state and the market economy is causing these moments. But if you come back, you have three parts of the question. First. The forms used by the Ministry of Justice are, above all, notary forms. I strongly believe that they should be adequately protected, properly made, because these law-making documents are playing on them, including traditional ones, returning to your question, confidence. When it comes to other forms, tens of millions of them are used, and how, that's another thing. One second. If we're accusing the organs of justice, let's say, of creating businesses, I honestly don't see any other way. Or the Ministry of Justice through the state tender system, the state procurement system, the centralized system buys and uses for itself and for its needs forms and everything else, or it creates the state-owned enterprises that execute these orders. What's the third time, actually? And there's a charge that there's a lack of transparency in the bidding process, and there's a new one that's been accused of asking questions. I think it's the right way, it's creating a state-owned enterprise that, under State control, does these functions under the control of the Ministry, and in fact, we don't allow contract prices and their application. If you have an offer, I'm ready and I understand that this is not a principled, let's say a moment to play it in preparation for the second reading. At least it seems to me that the committee's response to legal policy issues is, because the law really has some disadvantages in this text, so we need to get them ready for the second reading, but the request to make these proposals, we're going to play them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u138	Please, just sit tight. Thank you. For the purpose of the report, the word is given to the deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Catherinechuku Mikoli Dmitrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u139	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine" faction. The Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting a draft law on the organs of justice introduced by the People’s Deputy of the Road, Abdulini, and Osika. The designated bill is aimed at defining legal and. the principles of the activities of justice, their system, tasks, competences, powers and functions, financing and material and technical security, as well as the legal status and characteristics of the public service in the organs of justice. In line with the expert’s conclusion, the first reading of the bill may be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made by the Office. That is, the special law on the organs of justice should, in our view, be adopted on the basis of basic laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the central organs of the executive branch; detailing and controlling their standards. The adoption of significant laws should be ahead of the adoption of the law on the organs of justice. The attempt to seek legislative regulation of the activities of justice authorities in the absence of adopted laws of a general nature leads to a significant flaw in the bill, such as the inclusion of the text of common provisions which should be decided in principle by basic laws. These include, for example, the provision of rights to judicial bodies on contractual grounds to work or provide services to citizens and legal persons; the establishment by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is not provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine; the government authorities of the government; and in its original form, that is, the Ministry of Justice with the rights of legal persons. In addition, the provisions of the bill on these bodies do not give a clear picture of their legal status. The bill proposes that new functions be placed on the justice system, which will entail a change of powers for other government authorities, such as the registration of property rights for immovable property and the registration of landowners. But efforts to place justice as the largest registration function must be taken more seriously. This number of organizational and control functions is clearly not part of the primary purpose of these organs, but as a reminder, justice is justice and legality, not registration. In addition, the Ministry of Justice has broad powers in the area of enforcement of court decisions, and the bill proposes to preserve them. Clearly, the administration of justice. the function is accompanied by an accusation of their actions against officials or other bodies in court. This creates a paradoxical situation in which the organs of the justice system act in relational activity and at the same time manage the authorities of the State executive service, which are placed to ensure the enforcement of judicial decisions against these authorities. The combination of these functions in one central executive body cannot be called logical and consistent. I note that the bill does not disclose the rules for the exercise of justice by the authorities of their functions, although the laws on the police, on the Ukrainian State Tax Service and other arrangements for the activities of the relevant authorities are detailed. This can be accepted when it comes to functions defined by other notary laws, civil registration agencies, citizens’ unifications, and so forth. However, the legal framework for this activity is more specific when it comes to legalizing new activities that are proposed by the authorities. Today, only the executive authorities are registered with the justice authorities. But the bill provides for a broader range of acts that are subject to registration, but it does not determine the purpose or legal effect of this registration. At the same time, it is not called for the possibility of such decisions regarding refusal of registration, which means absolute freedom of treatment of the legal substance of the registration of legal acts and raises doubts about the need to approve this procedure through the adoption of Ukrainian law. The bill leaves open the question of the legal status of the organizational activities of the executive militia within the public service bodies. And in the meantime, it's obvious that there's not enough mention in this bill. I would like to see more, say, expanded understanding of whether this could be the subject of amendments to the Law on State Enforcement. There's a bill on it. So I'd like you to pay attention to the cost of maintenance, like the executive militia, and the budget is offered by the authors within 50 million dollars. I'd like you to pay attention to that. I don't think that's enough, because this state of execution doesn't satisfy society today, and we have to do everything we can to change that. I think it's kind of substantive enough to be talking about funding this direction. And let's say the committee's decision is to support this bill, to take it as a basis, to support it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u140	Will there be questions? Please sign in. Kafarsky, next Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u141	The bill under consideration by the committee contains such a position that it is proposed that members of the judiciary have the status of a civil servant, while the representatives of the judiciary will have their own actions - the public councillor of justice, the lawyer of justice, and so on. How does the committee view this problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u142	Well, I understand it was more of a question to the bill's author, because unfortunately, I can't make my point, because we agreed on a committee that I would only make a statement to the committee. The opinion of the committee is in a certain decision. And on this question, I think, if there's a possibility, the author might answer. I think a certain, let's say, settlement of this issue in this bill, I think it would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u143	Please, Vasil Kalinczuk, next Dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u144	Thank you. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear colleague! I support the committee's decision that the bill should be based on the first reading. But I have a question for you as a member of the committee. The project determines that enterprises, institutions and organizations within the administration of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine are held at the expense of the State Budget and operate on the basis of accounting. [[or]] However, the legislation and Civil Code of Ukraine, which will be in force on January 1, 2004, does not contain regulations on the activity of enterprises on the basis of accounting. So what's the committee's opinion here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u145	The opinion of the committee is also in the first decision, which is proposed to support the Supreme Council in order for the committee to finalize the bill, because you have very clearly focused our attention on this issue. There is not one question that needs a certain correlation from the point of view of the legislation already adopted. This is true of both the registration of farm subjects and other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u146	Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u147	Dear Nikolai Dmitrievich! I agree that this law must be adopted. I have a slightly different question: whether there will be sufficient criticism of this bill today, the dialogues of this law will generally be changed, and in the end we will receive not a single document, but something that is compiled, logically unrelated and not adopted by any of the parties to the legislative process. I mean, one thing I'm curious about is, can you, on the basis of the first reading, keep the main approaches of this law, make a law that will actually be an effective law, not just to say something common? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u148	Thank you for asking, it's very, very smart, I think. I am only interested in two aspects of this law. The first aspect is the system, let's say, the execution of the punishment that we have to pass on, I think, to the organs of justice, and the second is the enforcement of the court's decisions. All the other questions, I think they are. The author, speaking to you, said that this was no longer his first attempt to resolve the issue. But I'm constantly on the committee with certain, let's say, warnings about the individual standards that are being proposed. Because other bills suggested a practical restoration of the registration system of individuals, a prescription. It's not here right now. There are no questions. I think that if there are any questions, we will take them off, definitely take them off, and work on them. But this bill has the right to exist. And we need to do everything we can to ensure that society gets the outcome of this legislative initiative in the specific mandates of the relevant bodies of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u149	Sergey Ivanov, National Authority MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u150	Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u151	Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u152	Thank you very much. Dear Mikolo Dmitrovic, I'd like to ask. In my view, a number of issues related to the registration of individuals, both Ukrainian and foreign citizens, the issue of citizenship, the examination of applications and the granting of refugee status, and soon, if we adopt the law, and it is now being considered on committees, it is the granting of political asylum in Ukraine and other similar ones, they are very interconnected. How do you think the bill that we are considering today takes into account this relationship between such issues? That's the first question. And the second. You know, I've expressed such a concern that we can adopt the law without understanding the appearance of the state executive structure or the power to deal with these issues, and we're going to be hostage to these different kinds of, well, entanglements by the authorities. Is there such an understanding of executive power today?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u153	Thank you. I'd like to start with the second question. For example, the author of this bill became practically a victim of a situation where the Cabinet of Ministers Act was promised and other bills, basic bills dealing with the issue of the existence of the executive system today. So he comes out of what he can do and, let's say, we need to get out of the need that he is right now in settling those issues that we've already talked about. It's a system of execution of sentences, and it's also a change in the situation of execution of court decisions, because I don't believe we have 80 percent of the court's decisions now being implemented. I think the minister of justice is going to comment on this. And with respect to your first question, I'm very reticent about the accumulation of certain functions at the Ministry of Justice, which naturally, let's say, may or may not be, if you look at the different concepts about the system of executive power. And that's why we have to get out of this understanding, let's say, the requirements of most Ukrainian citizens, where they'll be more comfortable and where the issue will be less settled, there's also a need for this system of settlement of these relationships to be, let's say, and it does exist. So I think these questions are going to be the subject of second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u154	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: maybe we can now discuss how we agreed, and then we can finally ask for the position of the Cabinet of Ministers in the person of the Minister of Justice. Is there no objection? We agreed for 10 minutes. On board, please, the names that are registered, the national deputies. Yuri Carmazin, prepare for Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u155	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's Electoral Block, Our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies, Honourable People of Ukraine. I welcome you, in fact, with this project came another power force in the state in addition to the tax police and in addition to another. We have a force organ that has its own composition, and it will have an armed unit not only with the Ukrainian Department of State on the execution of punishments with its own specialty, but also with the executive militia that is provided for in article 1 of this Act. Regrettably, I was unable to ask the question of who was this bill presented today: a representative of the President or a national MP? And in general let's sort of divide these functions so that we know, Vladimir Mikhailovich, who's going to report: Is he as expensive as a representative of the President or as a National Deputy? I just wish I knew about myself. In my opinion, the fact that this law, a similar law, let's say this, similar law has to be passed, the Ministry's work is totally normal. It is absolutely necessary to give the Ministry of Justice a legal field, a legal framework for organizing the activities of all organs of justice. But is it the law we are given? I don't think so. I'd like you to just analyze it. At the moment of creation, there were 4,000,400 people in our tax department decision to pass on the IMF system. Today, 17,000, I think I'm rounding about 17,000! I mean, four times a day. Maybe the same thing is going to happen with the executive militia, I'm just saying it's one of the arguments. Now, about the serious-serious problems in this law. Legal activity and legislative functions entrusted to the Ministry of Justice. There's no drafting of laws so there's no such thing as bad laws. And the drafting of legal acts is in article 5 and not laws, I repeat. What about the whole mess that the Cabinet of Ministers is giving us right now? I would like, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to have the Ministry of Justice here take the initiative to develop the acts they are giving us today. Next. Please tell me how to conduct the legal expertise that the Supreme Council has passed on behalf of the Kabmin, which is signed by the President. That there's no President's mind or that there's no President's Administration? Can you please tell me, however, this question is true for the authors, how can we today ask questions in article 19 about representing the interests of Ukraine and the President, compare them, and take action to protect the rights and legitimate interests of the President of Ukraine in paragraph 2 of article 19? It seems to me that the President of Ukraine, as a person, in particular in a cassette scandal, must defend his own rights and interests. In general, the bill needs to be adopted, only by a completely different one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u156	Thank you. Alexander Feldman. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u157	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! After reading the law on the judiciary, I had a rather mixed impression. In fact, the bill is reformative. A police force will be established by the Ministry of Justice and will be transferred to the State Department for the Execution of Punishment. State Department for Nationality and Registration of Individuals. The Ministry of Justice will be responsible for registering business entities, real estate, registering citizens themselves and bringing them together. It appears that the Ministry of Justice is becoming one of the registration bodies where all registers will be concentrated. In this situation, it would be useful to include in section seven of the bill the final provisions for amendments to the existing laws and decrees of the President. However, this has not been done. The idea of establishing a State Department for Citizenship and Registration of Individuals under the Ministry of Justice is highly doubtful. Everyone knows that a bill on the Ukrainian State Migration Service, number 2446d, has been submitted for second reading. The bill was drafted by the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. It clearly sets out and follows a civilized approach to the creation of a migration service, whose powers include the registration of Ukrainian citizens and the issuance of passports. It is absolutely illogical for the Ministry to maintain a register of business entities. Does a lawyer need to be qualified to maintain a register, i.e. to enter a computer database? In my view, the State Committee on Enterprise would do well to do so. Why is it upside down? The status of the Department for the Enforcement of Punishment is becoming unclear. From the central authority of the executive branch, it becomes a structure subordinated to the Ministry of Justice. Why would he be removed from the Ministry of the Interior a few years ago and subjected to this paramilitary agency to the civil ministry? Why is the department's authority not determined by law, as specified in article 16 of the provisions approved under Ukrainian law? I believe that the drafters of the bill have something to work on, and I propose that Bill 2152 be sent for finalization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u158	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u159	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, colleagues! I think that there is a positive fact that the bill on the organs of justice has been introduced into the session hall, that it is being considered, although I think it needs some clarifications, which are of a substantive nature, in relation to the following. First. An article in the first draft of this law envisions the reorganization of the IMF system, which is what the reporter said, namely, the State Department for Citizenship, Immigration and Registration of Individuals to transform and transfer, and the State Department for Civil Affairs and Registration of Individuals in the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, paragraph 15: The mandate for the creation, reorganization and liquidation of ministries and other central bodies is vested solely with the President of Ukraine. The other one. There is no argument in the project that it is appropriate to transfer to the justice authorities the functions of registration of natural persons and the implementation of the civil policy, which in accordance with the President's decrees of 27 March 2001 and 11 January 2002 were imposed on the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. I carefully read the bill, as well as the explanatory note, and found it in an explanatory note to the draft reference to Ukraine’s international obligations to the Council of Europe. But we do discover these obligations. Article 11 of conclusion 190 1995 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe proposes that only the registration of persons who come to or leave Ukraine be submitted to the justice bodies. If you don't agree, you can look. But these functions have nothing to do with the registration of individuals in Ukraine and, in accordance with the President's decree, they are today placed not on the IMF, but on the Ukrainian State Border Service, which is an entirely subject of another conversation. Next. Is it sufficient to substantiate the statement in the explanatory note to the bill that the registration of natural persons, of course, foreigners and persons without citizenship and the implementation of civil policy and the implementation of civil policy is inherent in the organs of justice? You know, we've been referring to European experience today, part of the hall is always referring to Western Europe, on, part of Russia, and so on. But let's be honest and honest. I'm giving us official information. More than 20 Western European countries are concerned with these issues by the structures that are subordinated to the IMF of these countries. On the other hand, the same is true of the Russian Federation and a number of SND countries. Moreover, in 2002, in the United States, after many years of service in the Ministry of Internal Security, it was brought out of there and subordinated to the Ministry of Internal Security. As I finish my speech, I would like to say. Obviously, the problem is today and not where this department can be moved. It was about creating a separate service, it was about transferring it, bringing it to the National Migration Committee, today, and so forth. We, dear colleagues, forget what we call the Ministry, it's not the Ministry of the Police, it's the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And his authority should include problems involving internal affairs. I think it's not a subordination problem, it's a financing problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u160	The National MP Drachewski is transferring the right to speak to Onopenk. You have one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u161	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I would like, on behalf of the committee, to personally support this bill. Of course, there are some shortcomings that you were talking about today. But what needs to be reformed is a system of justice that can be done by making appropriate changes and enacting appropriate laws. You can't live and work under those standards, like we did 10-20 years ago, so there has to be a reform. Of course, there is a question of conceptual nature. For example, in many countries and especially in Germany, Poland, other countries, even the Attorney General’s Office is subordinated to the Ministry of Justice. That's why we need to think about it. I think we'll get to the bottom of this. The Council of Europe is asking Ukraine that the penitentiary system, namely colonies, prisons, institutions, should also be subordinated to the Ministry of Justice. We took the first step. We've brought the relevant committee out on the level of legislation from the IMF, but we have to move on. That's why there are shortcomings, we're going to deal with this bill, but what we need to support is the Minister, the Ministry of Justice and this law in the first reading, I think it's going to be the opinion of the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen. Gennady Widow, please microphone. I ask very briefly, Hennaday Josephovich, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u163	Dear colleagues! I also support the importance. I support the adoption of a bill that clearly defines the functions of the Ministry of Justice. I'd like it to be called the Justice Department, like our Polish neighbour, but is it going to happen if we give it to the police at the same time? And I agree with the previous speakers who've been paying attention to that. The Ministry of Justice should be a 100 percent civil ministry without any police functions. We should not promote the police of our state. That's the first one. Second, Vladimir Mikhailovich, missing not only from the state-level coordination of actions in this area, but also from us, from the Supreme Council. Today, in the Supreme Council of the Human Rights Committee, Ivan Ivanovich Mihovich passed a bill on the creation of the State Migration Service, which provides for the registration of individuals at the same time, i.e. the ex - pen, the glory of God that was eliminated on paper, provides for the registration of foreigners and so on, and the issue of citizenship. There is such a bill already in the Supreme Council recommended by the committee. Next, the Cabinet of Ministers has daily passed a bill on the principles of Ukrainian migration policy, which also foresees an appropriate pattern of action in this regard. And finally, the Cabinet of Ministers has already approved the relevant program and the specific functions that are proposed in the Road Bill, the functions of stealing from the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration. So we have today at the center of the conflict, I'm not afraid to say it, there are three very important departments -- the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the State Committee on Nationalities and Migration, which. Different decisions are based on citizenship - related functions and so forth. So I would like to draw attention to this, and in the Supreme Council itself, we need to improve the coordination of relevant committees in this regard. I'd like to take this into account in further work on this bill that's being discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u164	Yes, Sergey Ivanov, if he insists, the microphone then, one minute, because the time is up. Don't you insist? Minister of Justice, I ask Alexander Lavrinovich to express the position of the Ministry. If you don't mind, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u165	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Justice supports the adoption of this law in the first reading, realizing that its content needs to be further developed, since it is now in conflict with the situation created by other norms that have been adopted since its preparation. But most of all, what I would like to say is that the justice of Ukraine requires a mandatory settlement of its activities at the level of Ukrainian law. The three standards of the Constitution of Ukraine oblige all authorities of the State, in one part and in the other, where the executive authorities are involved, and the third, where the functions of the Supreme Council are referred to, say that this must be determined exclusively by the law of Ukraine. And it's completely out of the question that we don't have a law to this day that sets the rules for the functioning of the justice system. Now I want to emphasize that this is about the system of justice, not about one executive body. And in no way can the adoption of this law depend on the definition of the system of functioning of executive power. No matter what the system will be in a year or after 10, the functioning of the civil registration system, the registration of notarial actions, the execution of court decisions, the preparation of normative acts and the execution of executions. There's no way she's going to change her expertise. You just need to have a legal settlement of these functions that are there. Of course, it is proposed that the decision of the national deputies who make the project, which will be adopted in this session hall, determine whether there are several centres in the system of justice or the inclusion of the justice system in the various central executive bodies. This is, after all, no longer a question of law, it's a question of relevance. And these are the exclusive powers of the national deputies of Ukraine. So I want you to take this law seriously. Please support it in the first reading and allow the second reading committee to draft a bill that will help us to organize more clearly the work of a system that should provide services to citizens and protect their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u166	Thank you. The closing word is Alexander the Road. I'd like to emphasize, please. I would like to emphasize that when the announcement about the reporter was about what the Ukrainian national deputy Alexander the Companion was reporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Yuri Anatoliyovich, frankly, we've been working with you for a long time and I'm a little bit surprised because you know that since 1999, when a question was asked about the President's representative, it's a public commission, and first of all I'm a national MP, elected and not deprived of the right to legislative initiative. So this question that you're asking the fourth time here in this room is a little bit surprising to me. If you don't understand the answer, I'm once again a national MP. And what concerns the bill is that I would like to pay attention. Honorable colleagues, or we make decisions. Clearly, the sixth year is being discussed in the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result of the political situation, he will not be approved and so on. Either we settle the problem, or we go back to 1935, when the State Department and the State Department settled these issues. I don't think, with all due respect for the legislative initiative, which is expressed by my colleagues, that the question of the Statecommunity, the creation of a separate body that would have the rights of the State Committee, is a more civilized way than organizing the activities of the organs of justice. I mean, as always, it's up to you. And I ask you to support this bill in the first reading and make your proposals for the preparation of the paper for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the consideration of the draft Law, there was no basis for repealing. Well, calm down. Please, come on. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on the Judiciary has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. A draft Law on International Private Law is being announced for consideration. Reporter: Head of the Legal Policy Committee of Musiak Viktor Lavrentiovich, co-author of the bill. The following rules are proposed: For a report of 3 minutes, to answer questions within 5 minutes and 5 minutes of discussion. That's the profile committee's proposal. Is there no objection? Thank you. Let's work then.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u169	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the project is being implemented by Ukrainian national deputies of the Road, Musiyaka, Osika, and Rybikin. The purpose of the proposed draft Law on International Private Law is to establish proper regulation in the sphere of private-law relations in the interest of participation or, as lawyers say, in the event of a burden on a foreign element, at least in one of these forms. It is when, in a legal sense, a person is a foreign person, a legal or physical person, or a person without citizenship. The other one. If there is something in a legal relationship that is within Ukraine. And third, if legal relations have arisen, changed or ceased beyond Ukraine. The adoption of this law will create a systemic legal basis for international private law, a single system of collegiate norms. Collegiate norms are those that refer to the rights of that country that need to be guided when dealing with issues that arise in such a relationship with a foreign element. This is, in large numbers, this act is essentially a codification act, because it gathers the norms that are now scattered in different codes, in different laws. We put them together in the same act. And that's very important. And this, in our view, makes it possible to make more effective use of these norms. Because it is much easier, easier, and more effective than looking elsewhere in various acts. In addition, we usually took into account all those novels that are in International Private Law. After we have given Ukraine the statute of the Hague Conference of Private International Law, we have also been given the opportunity to participate in international development and acceptance of treaties in the field of private international law. It's very important. We should also note that this area is extremely dynamic. We're getting involved now, and we welcome that, of course, we're trying to expand international relations. And these relationships are that they require dynamics and change these relationships. And this would be easier to do with one act than let's say over there with a dozen and a half. The draft law takes maximum account of the position of the book of the Eighth International Private Law, which was in the draft Civil Code, which was already adopted and is due to enter into force on January 1st next year. But you know this book doesn't have an eighth. And you have to say that in the absence of this law, it's going to be hard to regulate civil law relations burdened with a foreign element. We believe that the adoption of this law will also allow for the effective introduction of both the Civil Code and the Code of the Master and the Family Code. I'm not talking anymore about the procedural codes that we now have on the first, second reading and are coming to an end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u170	Questions, dear colleagues, please sign in. Put your name on the board. Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u171	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Victor Lavrentiovich, I'd like to ask you why this bill, which I support, is right. You know what this is about, or imperative restrictions on the application of foreign law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u172	Thank you for asking. This is a rhetoric that is to the extent that Ukraine is facing. If, for example, our citizens' rights are limited in some country, we apply the same rights, the same restrictions on citizens of other states. Indeed, it establishes, as in international private law, a national regime for foreigners, for non-citizens, a regime that also exists for our citizens. But in terms of rhetoric, it is, there is an fertilization: if another is not provided when it comes to granting a national regime, if another is not provided by law or by international treaties. It has to be said that in many bilateral agreements on mutual assistance in civil and family matters, it provides that if there is a restriction on the rights of citizens in one of the parties to the agreement, then the same restrictions apply to these citizens and in that State, on which the citizens act on that side. So it's possible here, and it's completely not, let's say, excluded, but by other mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u173	Bogdan Kostinuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u174	Please pass the word to Sergio Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u175	Sergei Slabenko. Well, please, talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u176	He says he's not heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u177	I have a question for the next order. If we focus on this bill, focus on the consideration of the Civil Code and the individual book, we see today that you're passing it into a separate law. Nevertheless, in the sense of the issues that arise today, isn't there still a need to go back to changing the Civil Code and still return to the introduction of a separate book that would provide for this regulation of private international law? I realize that the adoption and implementation of the Code of Masters are difficult enough today. There are enough questions about the Family Codex. Are we re-electing a bill and trying to hide it somehow, or should we approach it more conceptually?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u178	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. The thing is, really, we had the eighth book, and I was talking about it in the draft Civil Code, and it was thrown out somehow. But why -- I guess that's also kind of a conceptual basis for this, that there's a separate law to be adopted, and that's why we're trying to start this process here, in this book, and now in this code, there should be collective norms not just about civil law relations, but about family law, labour, processual. They say it's like a matter that goes beyond, you know, civil law. So this conceptual law is said to be passed separately. But then we can make it out of the law, remake it, systematize it and codify it in the eighth book, I think. Whether it's seven now we might have it, I'm not ruling it out, I think it's something we might be looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u179	Anatoly Orzhachowski, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u180	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich! I have two questions for you. The first question is: Do you simply pass on the world’s experience to Ukraine as a new bill to international law? And secondly, in financial terms, how does this figure out what we're going to have with the introduction of your bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u181	Well, first of all, let's say that international regulation, private regulation, there was and there is now, let's say, the same law on international sales contracts, then in the family, in the Civil even last chapter, currently in force, the Civil is the last chapter that has just this kind of assignment. I mean, it's not a novelty that just came out of an international practice. The point is that we now have enough to make clear the system of norms that will allow us to settle the disputed, collegiate relationships that arise with the elements that I've been telling you about: individuals, physical, legal, etc. and so on. When an issue arises, we need to know the right to apply it. The court must be determined. We're clearly teaching here: when you solve a dispute like this -- that's how the law applies, when you solve it -- that's the law, that's the law, that's the law, and so on. All of this, by the way, is based on the great autonomy of the participants, the subjects of this legal relationship. In other words, they themselves have broad options for choosing the law that should apply to regulate these relationships. As far as financial is concerned, there will be no need for additional costs, such as the cost of putting it into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u182	Mikola Karnauh, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine You don't? Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u183	Lilia Grigorovich, faction of our Ukraine, People's Movement. Dear Victor Lavrentiovich, I would certainly like to ask you the following questions in support of the bill you have proposed. Since the definition of "The Hague Convention, private law" in your speech has been heard, I would still like to talk about private law, international law, and generally ask for your comment on whether the ratification of the Hague Convention is such a great panacea in the adoption of children? And in today’s situation, is private adoption of children what Ukraine needs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u184	Well, first of all, it was the statute of the Hague Conference on Private International Law, which we have the opportunity after that, we have the opportunity, I think the Ministry of Justice will use this widely, take part in various international legal measures to participate in the harmonization of international legal norms. Among them are the standards that apply to family law. And that's where we're talking about, in these colossal norms that we've shown here, let's say it's not. The Hague Conference itself does not decide, it decides procedures, participation, there, and so on, what rights are in the participants of this conference. On the other hand, the possibilities that arise from your question are the ability to bring these relationships into line with international status. But, in large numbers, we have internal legislation to make sure that it doesn't give us opportunity and abuse in these matters, and then because of the collective norms we send to our standards, we say that in this case only our standards need to be guided. And then all of these abuses will be thrown out of the possibility of using some legal norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u185	Thank you, Victor Lavrentyovich. Please sit down. The time for discussion is over. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please. Out of procedure, please, who do we have? Mikola Policczuk, please. Wait a minute. From the question-and-question procedure. Microphone, please, Mikoli Politchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u186	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm out of procedure at all. I understand that legal laws, economics, are extremely important and are always considered first. The only thing I don’t understand is that there is no more expensive health. Why laws designed to preserve health are last resorted to and not considered. I just don't understand why that is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u187	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u188	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Maybe not so professionally, but I would like to make a few comments and some comments about the bill on private international law. Regarding chapter three, "International Civil Process." What I find attractive is a lecture on the execution of foreign court decisions on the jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine in foreign affairs. But this rule does need, in fact, other supporting documents. I mean, this rule should be laid out in international agreements, agreements reflecting the specific status of our Ukrainian judges. This is especially true when ratifying treaties when they are ratified in the Supreme Council, and when these agreements are concluded, it is particularly important to pay attention, because at least when this law is passed, our courts will not be able to act if it is not in the relevant agreements. And I would also like to point out that in this bill we have somehow made agreements -- I repeat -- interstate agreements with countries like Italy, Portugal, Spain, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and so on, we still have to protect our citizens who work there, and ensure the national working conditions of our citizens abroad. So I think that here are some of the questions that I've come to know about this bill that give me reason to believe that this bill will be supported on my part and I'm asking my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u189	Vitaly Shibko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u190	I support the proposed bill and I think the faction will support me too, but I still wanted to make a few remarks. The first is what I think is at the center of this bill. As one of the central areas of this article is article 44, this is the right that applies to the employment contract. My colleague, Melniczuk, was just talking about it. But I have this concern or part of the 1 44th article aligns with article 8 of the Labour Code. I'm quoting article 8 so that we can understand very well what this is about. It means the Labour Code. "The hard relations of Ukrainian citizens who work abroad, as well as the labour relations of foreign citizens who work in businesses, institutions, organizations of Ukraine, are regulated by the legislation of the State that employs, hires workers and international agreements of Ukraine." I believe that the proposed bill has a more progressive form. KZOT is lagging behind, so here we have to agree on how to go with KZOT: whether to adopt legislation, or to agree with KZOT, or if we want to make a change in this proposed bill. And it raises great doubts about the possibility of practical application of part 1 of article 44. Because the employer generally does not have the authority to apply the law of another country in the field of employment by virtue of the principle of the special legal personality of a legal person. I have a few more comments here. One of them is that part of the fifth of article 14 has to be interpreted as having the right of a natural person to reside in a country where he has a permanent setting. Why so? Because in international law this means a country to which a person has a permanent legal connection, that is, a job, a tax return, a residence. What is offered to us is only the last of the components. And this is somehow lagging behind modern international law. I have a few more comments. I think I'll give them just for a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u191	Yuri Carmazin, please. It's very short, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u192	Don't say that, please. There's a Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u193	Well, let it end. I ask, Your Honor, your permission to continue your work for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u194	Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yushchenk's constituency, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a very interesting project, but it's more interesting in theory. So I have great respect for Victor Musiak's reporter. True, I don't know how some people found themselves there in their co-authors who didn't distinguish laws from sewerage. Well, that's different. I would like to draw the attention of a respected society, not in my opinion, but in my opinion, this law is seriously underworked, seriously. And in the first reading it cannot be accepted. I'd like to draw your mind to the Supreme Court and to the way we've formed it, bourgeois, it's kind, it's the Supreme Court. Thus, the Supreme Court, in the case of the Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Shevchuk, writes to the Supreme Council: we consider the adoption of such a law to be inappropriate. At present, the issues that arise in the area of private and legal relations with a foreign element are regulated by a number of codes, Ukrainian law and international agreements that relate to the law of obligation, inheritance, family, labour and other appropriate relations. They define jurisdiction and jurisdiction, procedural rights, decisions of foreign courts, and so forth. For example, the recognition and enforcement of decisions by foreign courts concerning chapter 13 of the draft law is governed by the Ukrainian Law on Recognition and Enforcement in Ukraine of Foreign Court Decisions of 29.11.2001. The existence of rules on the application of relevant provisions of international private law in the relevant codes, laws of Ukraine, international treaties of Ukraine is a positive factor in law enforcement, since combining in one legislative act of interlinked rules does not create additional inconveniences and contributes to their stability. It raises doubts about the need to review the rules of many legislation regarding the application of the provisions of international private law relating to the adoption of the draft law, as well as the fact that this will contribute to the achievement of the objective of the Preamble project. Ukraine's current legislation generally ensures that issues arising in the area of private and legal relations with a foreign element can be properly addressed. What can be added to this quote that I quoted from a letter from the Supreme Court of Ukraine? To this quote, I would like to add that in this bill a large number of special and very professional terms are not known to the population. And that's why I think that in preparing for, perhaps, re-reading, and maybe for Motivating it into a code, because I think it was meant to be in a code as a chapter, this dictionary of applied terms would have to be seriously expanded to explain what it means, what the norms of rights are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u195	That's the law. Let us now conclude with this law. Ministry of Justice, position of Ministry of Justice, Deputy Minister of Justice Marmazov Vasil Evgenovich. Please. Very short.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u196	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, the proposed bill deals with most issues related to the regulation of international legal relations and lays the groundwork for the creation of a single system of collegiate norms with the aim of avoiding contradictions and filling a number of gaps in legal regulation. As a result, the position of the Ministry of Justice is to support the bill with further elaboration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft law on International Private Law has been completed. The decision will be made on the day of the vote, taking into account the discussion. Please, Rudy's microphone. We agreed to continue for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u198	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a big request, has been referred five times to the issue of 240515 on "Criminal," giving the National Deputy Gurvo a chance to report three minutes. And the second question. Mikola Efremovich Polishchuk rightly pointed out that 3237 will listen to the cardiovascular disease situation in the nearer hearings. It would be necessary to consider the law, an important aid in overcoming such diseases. They must be considered even after two fifteen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. We have here a draft law to amend some Ukrainian legislation on liability for failure to comply with the requirements of state price control bodies. Well, one minute, let's talk about it, and then we'll discuss these two bills very quickly. No objections? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u200	What's more, it's been a long time since the very morning, the first deputy minister of the economy and the question of Euro-integration. Please report very briefly on the substance of the document and from the committee, if there is one. And then the two projects that you're proposing, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u201	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I'll try very briefly. It turns out that Law 2 on Prices and Prices was adopted in 1990, when there was actually a centralized economy, and information on the price situation was automatically obtained, and there was no need for legislative regulation of the issue. Now there's a situation where we have a price control inspection, price control, price monitoring for certain kinds of food products, fuel and so on, and there's no way of getting and being responsible for this information. While supervisory authorities such as the Antimonopoly Committee, the State Tax Administration, the HeadCRA, the DPA, they have their legal rights to receive information. The bill therefore proposes to amend the Code on Administrative Offences and the Act on Prices and Prices in force to provide information on price monitoring, to establish responsibility for non-indemnity, or to indemnify this information. Finally, I just want to point out that monitoring is done solely for the purpose of collecting and analysing information, for the purpose of informing about the price situation, and for preparing proposals to make appropriate changes to the economy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u202	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u203	Budhagan, a faction of Communists. For your consideration, there is a bill that is extremely important for all citizens of Ukraine, and above all for ordinary people, because the issue of prices and tariffs is very important to them. Therefore, this bill is designed to ensure that the requirements for disclosure and transparency of information are met by addressing the issue of regulatory security, ensuring effective control of the order of establishment, the application of prices and their dynamics, monitoring of prices and tariffs in the State, establishing the responsibility of officials in the event of refusal to provide the necessary information to the public price control authorities. The project envisages amendments to article 188-3 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Violations and article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on Prices and Prices. The previous speaker spoke of the substance of these changes. On September 16, this year, the Committee on Economic Policy, National Administration, Property and Investment considered the project, and recommended a bill of 3522 to be adopted as a basis. When preparing for second reading, you have to take into account the comments of the chief scientific and expert management and consider the proposals of the national MPs that will come. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u204	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? You don't? We will consider that we have discussed the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on liability for failure to comply with the requirements of state price control authorities. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized is being announced for consideration. [[about the combination "Cruvoristal"]] Reporter Gurov Vadim Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u205	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Thank you very much. So, Law 2405-15 - "On the List of Items of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized" - was considered on three Committees of Leaders - the Committee of the Economy, the Committee of Industrial Policy and the Privatization Commission. [[about the combination "Cruvoristal"]] That's a good decision all the time. There is also a positive decision from our expert department. Well, as far as the essence of the matter is concerned, I think everyone here knows, because this issue has been debated for many months. But if in short, it is an enterprise that is a strategic enterprise in our country, the largest combination of manufacturing in Europe, has virtually no parallels in Ukraine. Therefore, we believe, given that it has a difficult base, it has a base: a complete mine, a combination and a GOC, that is, it is not just a factory, it is a unique factory. He has 54,000 people. There is an appeal to the Parliament of the Labour College. Although we've gone a little over the top lately. And what I'm saying is, look at Waitaev, he's no longer alive, it was the last appeal to Parliament on the issue of the privatization of Krivorojstal. [[That's what everybody knows.]] He was categorical and the entire trade union committee was against it. Therefore, report on this issue. Everybody knows. And I'm asking you to adopt this law on first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u206	Have a seat, please. From the committee. Well, here's the committee's decision. I can inform you that the committee is offering to take this as a basis. Are you motivated or motivated? Well, Melniczuk, please. Now, one minute. Now it's weak. Melniczuk, let's cut to the chase.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u207	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Rudzkowski, the national deputy, made proposals for the national deputies. I was written up on a bill. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you should have asked my opinion. I certainly support what needs to be considered now. But as for the past bill of support on responsibility for failing to meet the requirements of government price controls, I had an opinion, I should have said it. Thank you. And we're going to have a good look at the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u208	So I said, "No need?".. You said you didn't, all of you. Well, I just didn't see it. Vitaly Shibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u209	Vitaly Shibko, Ukrainian Socialist Party Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to inform you of what our colleague Gurov just said. Soccer activists have collected 8,000 signatures in the city of Krivom Rog about not privatizing this business. And people are actively supporting them today in the collective itself. So we have to take into account not only what Deputy Gurov said, but the public opinion that exists today in Bloody Rose.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u210	I understand. The position of the Ministry. People's deputy Budhjigan, please, and then the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u211	The Committee on Economic Policy considered the issue and approved: to support the draft Law on the introduction into the Law of Ukraine "On the List of Objects of State Property Rights that Are Not Privatized", introduced by National Deputy Gurov, and to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in its first reading. The decision was taken by the majority: -13, -4, -11.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u212	Thank you. Position.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u213	I've got one for the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u214	The position of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration. Vladimir Leonidovich Privin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The Ministry of Economics supports this bill, taking into account the efficient operation of this enterprise as a state enterprise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u216	And the Cabinet of Ministers supports it, right? Okay. Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Well, you refuse. Well, then, Carmazin, come on. Well, please, then let's take a look at this and get it over with. Please, come on. Rudzikowski Mikola, will you be performing?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u217	Yuri Carmazin. Well, now, I'll be a minute. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity of the Electoral Block of Victor Yushchenk, Our Ukraine. Dear national MPs, our Gurov's right-wing colleague, who said that this decision to privatize this property is just criminal. So it's not just about the support of Gurov's colleague in the first reading, but it's about supporting the whole law in the first and second reading. It needs to be accepted now so that tomorrow, literally, it can already be reflected in the willingness of the privatizers who have already set up the money and made other contacts. And this will be a good example for Krudprom, which she was speaking on today, in Skrnaft, where Valentina Seminouk is correct today, and in Krudprom and in other businesses, with which we should do exactly the same. And I want to tell everyone about the oligarchs. Don't think there's anything you can buy from the Supreme Council. Know that the Supreme Council will not give you State property, especially one that works effectively. Take what's broken. And by the way. There are government representatives here. I'm speaking, there's Paperprom, too, and I'm addressing you, please, to the Privatization Control Board. The government is already splintering and repeating the same thing as the State Property Fund. Look carefully, I am preparing your name for the same reason. Two readings, I have an offer. Please write it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u218	Mikhail Pavlovsky, please. I'm just the ones who signed up, the respectable colleagues. It's not there, you don't have to. Michael Pavlovsky. And then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u219	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll say two phrases. And Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, I want you not to be afraid of the word "regulatory," not just using "monitoring." In the world - United States market itself, 54 percent of prices are regulated by the state. That's the first one. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in order to make sure that we can't privatize enterprises so effectively, I'm going to give the geoeconomics theorem for the stenogram, it's like, "Preservation of leadership. If the state does not intervene in the economy, does not regulate its businesses, then transnational companies or developed countries will run them." Thank you. So our faction proposes to uphold this law both in the first and in the second, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u220	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u221	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, town of Zaporozhye, faction of SDPU. In view of the fact that we will repeat ourselves, in principle, everyone is supporting this bill, I will say only one thing. If a scheme had been developed by the government or offered to this labour group a way of privatizing through the method of national privatization, there would still be something to talk about. To this day, he is offered a simple scheme that has more money or more flow. So today, I'm convinced, I want to thank the Supreme Council, who saved Ukraine's network company when I didn't allow it to privatize it on a scheme that is being prepared today by the Chrystals. I call on all factions, all Ukrainian national deputies, regardless of party membership, to vote on Thursday as a law to remove the Croatstall combination from the list that is to be privatized. In the same way, we will give Ukraine a great benefit and a working group that will believe that there is still truth and justice in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u222	Thank you. Yes, Semenyuk, please. Just one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u223	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The Special Monitoring Commission was given a detailed consideration to the bill. We -- the Control Commission -- have received a call from the city council of 5,000 voters of the company and citizens, we have supported them, and we want to say that we are now making changes to the privatization law, where we are clearly talking about that profit enterprises should not be privatized. I think it will be right today and in the interests of the state. Let us adopt this bill on Thursday and resolve our hands so that there will be no more economic, as it were, fluctuations that are now in the appropriate region. And I think it's going to be a stable working group and it's going to work for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u224	Andrew Schlell. What can I do if they insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u225	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, who made his position very clear, I think, our entire room. He said that Ukrprom's business is working well, and that's why privatization is not necessary. [[It's working well. Think about it!]] Krivoristal, I'm sorry. But this affects both Ukradprom and Ukratnafts. Every enterprise that wants to privatize means privatizing in paws. In fact, stop his activity. I mean, destroy it. So I emphasize that out of non-privatization facilities, a list of all those enterprises that produce quality products should be added, and that would be very normal. So I urge everyone to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A review of the draft law amending Ukraine's law on the listing of property rights that are not subject to privatization has been completed. [[about the combination "Cruvoristal"]] We will make a decision on the day of the vote. No matter what our time is, we agreed on more smoking, and the harmfulness of tobacco use will be considered very briefly. Is there no objection? I urge you to consider the draft Law on the Limitation of Tobacco Consumption and the Reduction of Their Harmful Effects on Health. Very briefly, please, Mikola Mikolaiovich. And then Mikola Efremovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u227	Dear national deputies, distinguished listeners! You know, the Ministry of Education distributed this methodical reference: “The health of the nation’s children, ” indicating that 90 percent of the graduates ’ students are unhealthy, have some or other health problems. Think and think about statistics. Among tobacco users, 6 to 8 percent of the children of younger classes, even preschoolers, smoke 1 out of every 5 fifth graders, almost half of the 8th graders, and about 60 percent of school graduates, all of which are based on the fact that tobacco importers and manufacturers receive surpluses. Ukraine signed an international framework convention on tobacco control on May 21, this year, which noted that Ukraine would work on banning advertising, informing consumers about the harmfulness of tobacco products, and protecting citizens’ right to air free from tobacco smoke. The bill proposes to restrict, adopt a separate fight programme, a state-owned smoking programme, where to develop a set of government measures, submit it to the Supreme Council, and anticipate one percent of the share in financing the programme. The bill proposes to limit the distribution of cigarettes and cigars, sales, implementation, imports, and to restrict smoking. To ban smoking in schools, sports competitions, and so forth. The bill limits the advertising of tobacco products to television and the media. Thus, to limit the impact of this information on the young generation. We should bear in mind that according to the statistics of the Ministry of Health in Ukraine, 100,000 people die each year because of smoking. The bill also proposes to impose strict restrictions on nicotine and resin content, increasing requirements each year. The bill proposes that the government consistently increase excise duties and import duties, thereby influencing consumption and reducing consumption of tobacco products in Ukraine twice as many as the European States do. I'll cut it short. Thank you for supporting the people’s deputies of this vital issue for the health of the entire nation of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u228	Thank you. Mikola Policczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u229	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to say that to add to what Mr. Rudzkowski said, every year in Ukraine, according to the statistics of the Ministry, between 120 and 140,000 people die, where death is directly related to tobacco: lung cancer, it's a hypertonic disease, it's a stroke, it's a heart attack. In addition, cigarettes are officially sold for 4 billion dollars. 100 million Infants and health damage are estimated at more than 12 billion. That's right. Two bills, 3237 introduced by Mr. Rudzikowski and 3237-1 introduced by the People's MP Polishchuk and Bogotyrov, were submitted to the committee. The Committee has considered both bills carefully and taking into account what many of them have in common, because the Committee has both made a decision to recommend in the first reading the adoption of Law 3237-1 by the Polish National Deputies, Bogatyrov, on second reading to take into account all those observations, all those parties to the bill are positive, which were introduced by the People's MP Rudzkowski, and on second reading to issue a joint bill for the participation of the three deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u230	Thank you. The position of the Cabinet of Ministers. Deputy Minister, First Deputy Minister of Health Petchenko Timur Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u231	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Indeed, the basis for these bills is the concept of State tobacco control policy approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of June 21, 2001, number 667, and the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control of May, adopted by the 56th Assembly of Global Health Protection in the current year. The Ministry of Health of Ukraine supports the draft legislation and considers the bill 3237-1 to be the basis for taking into account the provisions of Bill 3237-1 in the drafting of Bill 3237-1 with a view to adopting a single law that will determine the legal, economic and organizational principles of public policy, aimed at warning children and young people, reducing the level of consumption of tobacco by the population and promoting a healthy lifestyle, protecting public health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u232	Yes, is there a need to discuss? Yuri Anatolyevich, please. Very short, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u233	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Victor Yuschenk's constituency, Ukraine. I appeal first of all to the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, precisely so that such a bill does not require anything to be introduced in the Supreme Council. Today there is a violation of the rights of many national deputies who do not smoke, who simply come in to comb or wash their hands. We can't go in there. Just look, you've been to civilized countries, you've been to Holland, you've probably been to Bangkok, you've been to many countries, you've seen that there are, in fact, reservations, tiny reservations of 46 square meters to get in there and burn with nicotine. Today, you, the majority of us citizens who abstain from this health - conscious disaster, are being put on a reservation. And I come home and I smell like this, so if you'll excuse me with tobacco. It is your will, your authority to make a single decision on this matter. And please, someone here denies, let him go, see how the Dutch are doing, let him look in other countries of the civilized who have accepted these conventions. And now, with regard to the adoption of this bill, I think we need to reconcile these authors, it's quite right today by the committee to bring them all together, to say that they are the authors, in a single bill, but to explain to the College of Rudzkowski that it is necessary to write that only 18-year-olds can be restricted, because both the Civil Code and the Criminal Code and other laws say that adulthood is coming, the rights and duties of an 18-year-old person. So not only do I have proposals for the adoption of the law in the first reading of 3237-1, but I have a proposal for concrete actions that I ask to make to protect those people who do not smoke in the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You won't be staying in a hotel anywhere outside the country tonight, looking for a place to smoke. And it says, "We don't smoke." And in the Supreme Council, we're smoking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-15-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, consider the matter. If there's no objection. There is no more insistence on performances. The review of the draft Law on the Limitation of Tobacco Consumption and the Reduction of Their Harmful Health Impact has been completed. Decisions will be made taking into account the committee’s deliberations, recommendations. I'm asking the Secretariat to prepare a draft smoking ban order. In the Supreme Council, in the premises of the Supreme Council. We will vote on it. I'm asking if you can make it by Thursday. And figure out where to set up on the street. Dear colleagues, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Since 16 hours of work on committees and factions. Thank you for your fruitful work. Tomorrow's day of adoption by the Supreme Council of Decisions. Good-bye.
