ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like you, your honor, to prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:14]] Registered -219 The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. In harmony with articles 4.2.2. and 4.2. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and the minutes of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary faction meeting of July 3, 2003, number 34, I am informing you that the representative of this faction has been elected as the national deputy of the Republic of Ukraine, Zajec Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich. [[united]] Today, dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national MPs, our colleagues: Ivancho Ivan Vasilovich, Tereshuk Sergio Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Let us welcome both John Vasilovich and Sergio Mikolaiovich, who wish them health and success in their activities. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Friday, we work according to the schedule of meetings. You have a list of questions to consider. Dear colleagues, there is no question of parliamentary inquiries today, but we have a great deal of parliamentary questions. Will you not deny that we will consider and vote on parliamentary motions? May I? Thank you. Out of procedure, please, Zvaric, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I draw your attention to the fact that only 219 Ukrainian national deputies are registered in the Hall. In the event that a decision is to be made to refer a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, there are not enough deputies in the Chamber to ensure such a decision. So I would ask you to give an interpretation of how you see this problem, and yet the MPs who are members of the majority faction explain why they didn't register in the hall today. In particular, the faction of the SDR and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u3	They didn't seem to be able to do it, they checked in at the registration desks. We have every reason to start a meeting. Please, Adam Martinyuk, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, and especially those who join the majority! You have very bad consultants. Unfortunately, you don't have any lawyer to tell you that what you've done now means anything at all, because you're in compliance with the rules of the old Constitution. And you want to push a new one. Yes, that was the norm, if there are no 226 national deputies required, the meeting is not open. In the Constitution that we live by, that is not the norm. So there may be only one presiding officer in the room, and he may open and hold meetings. So your demarche and the person who thought you could do so have absolutely no reason to do so, and you can continue to do so in your health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we have opened a meeting. And I don't see any reason for regulatory or legal to discuss this. There is no such theme for us. And I thank you for explaining to Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. I'm voting on the questions. I'm betting on voting requests. A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Sergey Kiroyantz to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the review and improvement of the mechanism for the formation of parliamentary delegations. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:25]] For-57 The decision is not taken. Paul Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of article 6 of the Ukrainian Housing Debt Restructuring Act, for housing and utility services and for gas and electricity consumed. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:06:56]] For-179 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-encouragement of construction in the Protected Archaeological Zone of Chernigov's underground shopping and entertainment centre. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:07:24]] For-69 The decision is not taken. Anatolia Kukoba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, for complying with the current legislation with the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources order of 23 May 2003 establishing a single system for the registration of land, immovable property and rights in the form of a state-owned cadastre and the improvement of the structure of the state-owned enterprise "Centre of State Land Cadastre" with the State Committee on Land Resources. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:08:11]] For the four of us. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, look at the list of parliamentary questions. Maybe there's no need to vote them? Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of individual items of the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of January 20, 97, No. 44 "On the approval of taxes on wood for forest species released on stumps and on grass." I'll bet you a vote on the direction. [[10:08:58]] For-162 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a marginal wage for the production of state-owned land rights acts and other aspects of technical security for the privatization of land in the country. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:09:30.]] For-183 Decision taken. Paul Kachura to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the cessation of discrimination against domestic producers and the elimination of violations in the area of registration and disinfection in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:03]] For 184 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Pinzenik, Diminsky, Nasalik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of socio-economic development of the village of Longge-Gyrski, caused by the halting of the construction of the watershed on the Lviv River. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:10:34]] For 135 Decision taken. Vasil Bartkov to Prime Minister of Ukraine for granting the villages of Novička and Obolon of the valley region of Ivano-Frankov region the status of mountain settlements. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:02]] For-24 The decision is not taken. Oleg Gumenyuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:29]] For 186 Decision taken. Stanislawa Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfactory work of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine in fighting the locusts in the Herson region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:11:57]] For-191 Decision taken. Kiroyans to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the strengthening of the supervisory function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:24]] For-12. The decision is not taken. Valery Assadchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine for dissatisfaction with the answer to the request for a criminal case filed on the basis of fraud. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:12:55]] For-195 Decision taken. Vasil Onopenk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the intervention of the Institute of Physics' Leaders of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine in the innovative activities of the Society with limited responsibility for "Semi-guided technology and materials, optoelectronics and sensory technology". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:13:35]] For-27 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Yeshchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the executive and law enforcement authorities of the Cherkas region regarding the alienation of property of the joint DAKO. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:07]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Vitalia Šibka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:14:32]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the head of the Coordinating Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption with the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the investigation of the criminal case for the arson of the Supreme Council's chief consultant's apartment on the issue of combating organized crime and corruption, which was committed to the purpose of intimidation and non-application of the actions envisaged by the Office's instructions. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:19]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Gregorya Omelchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on the outcome of the criminal investigation of the indictment of the President of the Domianabank Share Bank and other officials for the kidnapping of more than $25 million. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:15:52]] For-183 Decision taken. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the removal of obstacles to the closed-circuit association of the thermal network company in the use of the rented property of the Sumski TEC complex. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:22]] For-189 Decision taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the citizen's right to receive an inheritance. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:16:47]] For 172 Decision taken. Valery Assadchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the grounds of dissatisfaction with the response to the inquiry into the criminal case of violations in the Housing and Building Corporation "Academic-22". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:17]] For 190 Decision taken. Valentina Semenyuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply of the Prosecutor's Office of the Sumskie District to the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:17:47]] For 196 Decision taken. Vladimir Onishuk to the Attorney General on the facts of the theft of property of the collective agricultural enterprise "Victoria" of the district of Ananov of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:17]] For-189 Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the request to verify the prosecution of employees by the Director General of the State Enterprise Ukrnaftazcomplet and the theft of state property. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:18:50]] For-182 Decision taken. Vasil Gladys - to the Attorney General of Ukraine - on the delay in dealing with the non-payment of arrears from wages to employees of the Open Shareholder Association of the Balkan region of Kharkiv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:23]] For -8 The decision is not taken. Vladimir Puzakova, Minister of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine, in violation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Reform of the Agrarian Sector by the authorities of the Kirovograd district of Kirovograd. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:19:55]] For 176 Decision taken. Alexander Stoyan - to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine - on the investigation into the death of students by Mariana Rudakevich, a resident of the Ternopil region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:25]] For the The decision is not taken. Mikoli Tomenka, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, for his dissatisfaction with the request for the publication of the Appendices to the Treaty between Ukraine and the Russian Federation on the Ukrainian-Russian State Border. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:20:58]] For-188. Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the emergency situation of clean-up facilities and the need to finance the retrofitting of the chlorinated station in the town of Skadowsk Hersson. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:21:29]] For 193 The decision is not taken. Ah, excuse me, the decision is made. So I've looked further. Anatolia Kukoba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of Ukrainian land legislation. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:07]] For the 15th. The decision is not taken. Peter Oliynik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the assignment of the local councils of the Sokal district of Lviv to the zone of Polisi. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:22:33]] For-191 Decision taken. Victor Teren to Prime Minister of Ukraine on measures to honor the memory of the distinguished Ukrainian teacher Vasil Sukhomlinski. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:01]] For 199 Decision taken. Mikoli Rudzkowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution of a court decision by the National Atomic Energy Company Energoatem. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:23:28]] For-188. Decision taken. Roman Tkač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the transfer of the premises of the former Shareholder Industrial Bank "Ukraine" to the municipal property of the territorial communities of the Tismenic district of Ivano-Frankiv region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:01]] For 190 Decision taken. Vladimir Leshchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the crisis situation in the Open Shareholder Company of the Cernigiv Region's "Corski Electromechanical Plant". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:24:32]] For 196 Decision taken. Peter Damiensky to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the prevention of an extraordinary technological situation in the region of Borislav Lviv. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:04]] For the four of us. The decision is not taken. Anatolia Moroz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the purpose of lifting the wrong government decision on the submarine "SS-310" handed over to Ukraine by the Government of the Russian Federation to form a museum of naval forces in Kiev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:25:40]] For-191 Decision taken. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible violation of the labour rights of the chief editor of the newspaper "Rzistov" in political terms. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:10]] For 190 Decision taken. John Boki to the Attorney General of Ukraine. John Boko, I'm sorry, to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the illegal arrest of the head of the City Village Council of the Poltavian Region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:26:42]] For a hundred and Group of National Deputies - Alexijuk, Shirko, Cherniak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the theft of administrative property in the city of Equal Branch of the Commercial Bank "Finances and Credit". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:19]] For 193 Decision taken. Victor Baloga to the Attorney General of Ukraine for slanderous information transmitted on the channel "UT-1" on 28 June 2003 concerning the Ukrainian People's Deputy. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:27:49]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Greens, Jojik, Zagreva and others, only eight national deputies - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for gross civil rights violations by internal affairs officials in the course of the elections of the martyr's urban head. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:26]] For 196 Decision taken. Vladimir Yavorowski - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, for reasons of daily violations of applicable legislation, has to do with the cover - up of traffic on a number of streets of Kiev for the travel of officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:28:56]] For 196 Decision taken. Eugene Jovtjak is with the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation by the Irpine City Head and the Public Prosecutor's Office of the city, of the citizen's right to land. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:24]] For-189 Decision taken. Mikoli Polishchuka is the Attorney General of Ukraine for the outbreak of viral hepatitis in the city of Sukolsk Lugansk and the state of water supply in Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:29:53]] For 197 Decision taken. Viacheslava Anisimov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the inaction of officials of the District Public Prosecutor’s Office. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:19]] For-189 Decision taken. Maria Maruksh to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the repayment of the debt on the payroll of the employees of the closed stockholders' association "Teresvian Woodworking Union" of the Zacarpathian region and the verification of the abuse of officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:30:54]] For 197 Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the fact that he was in the actual military service of a soldier who had apparent physical defects. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:22]] For 190 For 190, the decision is made. Istwana Haydosh to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, Head of State Automobile Inspectorate of Ukraine for the transit of truck and car transport through the city of Brzegowe and the development of a comprehensive programme for the development of roads across the Zakarpat region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:31:59]] For -6 The decision is not taken. Mikhail Kosova to the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine on the threat of disrupting the work of the Lviv State Institute for the Design of Petroleum and Petroleum Enterprises. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:32:28]] For 197 Decision taken. Eugene Jovtak to the Minister of Transport of Ukraine, who is responsible for the Ukrainian minister of ecology for the threat of environmental disaster in connection with the planned construction of a technical railway station near the city of Vishnev. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:02]] For-195 The decision is not taken. I would ask Peter Mikhailovich not to confuse me. Decision taken. To -195. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio, Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine for the financing of construction and the acquisition of technical equipment for a retransmission centre in the village of Olgino, High-Paul district of the Hersonian region. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:33:47]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Anatoly Pisarenka to the Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Audit Authority of Ukraine, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine regarding the activities of the State Shareholder Company "Ukrainian Publishing and Polygraph Association". I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:34:22]] For-7. The decision is not taken. Peter Toloczko to the head of the Sevastopol State Administration on the threat of destruction of the building and history on Mount Fiolin. I'll bet you a vote on the request. Please vote. [[10:34:50]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Victor Mironka to the head of the state administration of the Lenin district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for violations of the law by the district’s officials. I'll bet you a vote on the request. [[10:35:16]] For 185 Decision taken. All the questions proposed by the secretariat have been considered. A draft law on political advertising is being announced for consideration. Mushroom reporter Valery Dmitrovich, head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Dear colleagues! It's suggested that this is a five-minute report, seven respondents asking questions, five minutes and a 10-minute discussion. Is there no objection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! In order to understand why Ukraine needs the Law on Political Advertising and why it has the meaning of what you are offered, and with such standards, principles and restrictions, responsibility and definitions, I will give specific examples of political competitions, particularly political advertising in various countries. Free political advertising is permitted in electronic media during election campaigns in the United States, Canada, Australia, Poland, Bulgaria, Hungary, New Zealand, Germany. The United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland, Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, is not allowed at all. Not allowed during elections in Austria, the faction, Israel, Japan. In the United States, freedom of speech is compared to freedom to spend money on an election campaign or any political campaign. Americans think that political advertising is paid messages with favorable information about candidates or attacks on them. We often turn to the legislation of other countries, so let me give you a few examples of this. Chapter 315 of the United States Telecommunications Act is called the Equal Opportunities Principle. He's saying that if a television station sells time to candidate A, it's bound to give equal time at the same price to candidate B. The amendment to this law, which is called "the quasi-species" defines that if a TV channel gives time to a group of candidates or a party, it's bound to give the same opportunity to the board. Chapter 314 is called Lowest Prices. Political advertising of candidates should be sold at the lowest prices that should be the same for different candidates for the same duration and time of transfer. Chapter 315A "The Doctrine of Equitable Lighting." Telejournalists should look for candidates with conflicting views. And if you give free time to one party, you have to give free time to another party. Chapter seventy-three nineteen of the rules approved by the radio committee are called "Political Editorial". If the radio station gives an editorial comment that is favorable or unfavourable to the candidate, it should be able to respond in time. And finally, chapter 73 19 20, Personal Attacks, it's called. When attacks refer to the quality of a group or party when discussing issues of public interest, the television company should inform the group and allow them to react. I apologize for the large number of quotations. But I would like to point out that there are no such standards in our legislation today. And these quotations should show the basic methodological principles laid down in the drafting of the Ukrainian law on political advertising. The bill on political advertising proposed for your consideration is developing the rules of articles 15 and 34 of the Constitution of Ukraine on political and ideological multimanence and constitutional guarantees of citizens' rights to freedom of thought and speech, to express their views and beliefs freely. The implementation of the rules laid down in this law will allow certain steps to be taken to democratize our information space. What are the problems that have been solved by a group of legal and political experts, journalists and advertising, sociology, and electoral technologies in the field of political advertising? This law for the first time in Ukraine, I emphasize, defines the basic principles and regulates the functioning of political advertising in society and fills the existing white spot in Ukraine's legal field. For the first time in law, he introduces concepts such as political advertising, antiadvertisement, counteradvertisers, hidden, unwarranted, false advertising. The law divides the media into state, party and non - party media, as has been the case in society today. It's a modern practice of using a variety of advertising media not only for the media, but also, say, bus, trolleybus and so on. It relieves the media of the responsibility for the contents of the shelves they are offered. He proposes a mechanism of responsibility and sanctions for violations. He protects journalists and the media during election or reference campaigns against reprisals, so to speak. He warns against any censorship, gives legal possibilities to answer unreliable facts, insults, humiliation of honour, dignity and business or political reputation. Much attention has been given to this law to the development and definition of basic principles for the dissemination of political advertising or propaganda information. An attempt has been made to put into law the basic principle is the level of political competition. The actual introduction of political advertisers into the circle of political or electoral subjects with all the legal consequences that result, as well as the extension of the limits of freedom of expression resulting from the legal conversion of creative media workers from propagandists to journalists. In addition, the law enhances the role of electoral commissions in regulating the relationship between the subjects of the electoral process and the courts. It regulates advertising and propaganda during the election of the President, the national deputies of Ukraine, the heads of state administration and local self-government. It should be pointed out that political advertising in this law is seen as a constant factor, so the electoral, referendum period of political advertising is set out here in a separate special chapter. I think that in preparing for the second reading, you can take into account all the suggestions for improving the law that came out of both the committee and the press. But in our view, the concept of the law is positive and promising, and the incorporation of it into social practice will reduce the possibility of illegal use of financial, administrative, information resources. Prejudicing some questions, I would like to say that article four on the language of political advertising has, in my view, a wrong formulation. It should be written that the language of political advertising is established in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on Languages. And the 4th article was formulated wrongly, I think. And I immediately say to the stenographer that in the second reading she should be like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u7	Clearly, there is a question. Sign up, your honors, for a question. On the board, please explain. Valery Dmitrovitch, would we not call this law on political advertising during the election campaign?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u8	I would like to emphasize once again that political advertising is a constant factor in social life. We have a separate chapter on election campaigns and referendums. So, I think we're going to have political advertising today, and tomorrow we're going to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u10	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Valery Dmitrovich, do you not consider it necessary to limit the paid political advertising of candidates to the Ukrainian national MPs during the elections? Because in the election of the Ukrainian national deputy in Montenegro on June 8, this year, individual candidates bought virtually all the television. For money that is far more than the amount allowed by the electoral fund. And there's no control on the part of the relevant authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u11	I want to say that this law on political advertising is set, let's say, the order of financing political advertising itself, by referring simultaneously to the laws on elections where these boundaries are set. And he determines who has and how to control the costs of political advertising. It's in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u12	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u13	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine." Valery Dmitrovicz, we had a discussion, a committee, and Vladimir Mikhailovich also referred to this topic. But let's give the basic argument that we can't solve this problem in our election laws, or maybe in our separate blocks, in our chapters. And in view of the need for a separate law. And the second block relates to how much in this law, if you really base the idea of a separate law, you have to sort of solve the problem of political advertising, of external political advertising. You know the story that I still can't find out about the charities who ordered political advertising all over Ukraine to support Leonid Kuchma's initiative. Then no one can tell me who ordered it and who paid for it. How can we solve the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u14	Well, as for a separate law, the thing is, of course, I think it would be possible in the election law to put a chapter on political advertising. But I want to repeat, Mikola Volodymyrovich, that political advertising is a constant factor. Well, if, let's say, there's a sign on the bus there that says "democratic party" or some party, whether it's going to be an election or not, it's political advertising, because political advertising, in general, translates from Latin means "screaming," "telling about something." And if, let's say commercial advertising works on these principles, you have to arouse interest, you have to, say, focus, you have to show the advantages of a product, let's say, and in this case it's a political product, and you have to make it work, buy this product or vote, let's say, for a particular party, this mechanism is the same for political advertising. That's why I think if. Let's say we have, I think, briefly, a positive information presence in our, let's say, social understanding today in Ukrainian, it's already political advertising. Well, let's say that if one candidate is talked about all the time and he's hung up on a television screen, and the other one's not mentioned at all, let's say that the political power is just being silenced, it's already, so to speak, a violation of the equality of conditions. So I think it's a separate law that needs to regulate not everything, let's say, this activity in elections, but also during, let's say, the inter-election period. When it comes to your second question. So this law has mechanisms in place, it says, when this political advertising and what it is, and how it should be ordered. There is a ban on ordering this political advertisement and they have no right to take part in political activities, such as government authorities, the President, say, the Cabinet of Ministers and so forth. And it says when they can and how they can participate in this campaign. Joseph of Viennese. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u15	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Valery Dmitrovich! Yesterday several channels belonging to the oligarchs grossly embezzled and covered the situation in the Supreme Council. You know, they said that the Supreme Council's decision regarding prices and the situation in the village was not accepted, because the opposition canceled the job, that it was there specifically looking at the political situation and so on. So there was a crude primitive lie on the presidential channels. This is political advertising, certain political forces, and anti-advertise opposition. You tell me this lie that was yesterday, as your law governs. These passersby may or may not be responsible. This was not even close in the Supreme Council. And I'm running. Vladimir Mikhailovich! I want to ask you. You're the Head of the Supreme Council, you were to be assigned this morning to the appropriate press and legal services to bring these passers-bys to criminal responsibility. Yesterday, just boldly a few channels of lying to the Supreme Council, including your position in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u16	Dear colleague! I agree with you that this is, let's say, advertising and anti-advertise or counter-advertise. These definitions are very good, in my opinion, in the law we have written. I think the first step to this is to separate the media from party, non-party, state and municipal, and it's clearly written down who and what they can do, for example, state and municipal media don't have the right to engage in political advertising in the inter-election period, they have the right to engage in advertising, but on the basis of, let's say, special agreements, written agreements, where all things are paid for, as far as the second question is concerned, the second question is that we are advocating that monopolies of this information do not feed their information, sometimes very harmful, our entire population. He's sitting on a national channel -- and what he wants is what he's saying, really disinformation the population. Unfortunately, this law does not provide for these things to the extent that you would like to. But what we're talking about is, let's say we're developing in the committee exactly the kind of norms that would limit, first of all, the monopolization of national channels. We need to define clearly in the concept of the development of our information space what national channels should be, who has the right to sit, who has the right to be an information product on these channels, and how it should be filled. Unfortunately, we don't have that yet. But you can, I think, lie, of course, because of the indiscreet facts we have in the Criminal Code, such things can certainly be brought before us.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u17	Yes, thank you, Valery Dmitrovich. Time's up. I just didn't look last night, I worked for a long time. I'll ask you to come here. Mikola Volodymyrovich, please analyze the information suggestions expressed by our colleague Joseph Vikcentiovich Winski. But there is only one way to do it. Once counseled. One man complained to President Putin that they were misrepresenting events. He says, "Don't look, you'll be healthier." Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. On the board, please. We agreed that we would be discussing this for 10 minutes. On the board of the national deputies who signed up, names. They signed up for the show. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please. The faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u18	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Honorable National MPs. That bill that we are considering is certainly not to be added, as was suggested today by you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, during the election campaign. Political advertising, Vladimir Mikhailovich, takes place every day. And every day for government money. Today, we show how bad the parliament, the bad forces here, is showing some traitors who today in a civilized society should not appear on television at all. And all the time, these people are asking questions and they're always opening political parties. Therefore, the Law on Political Parties, which was introduced and reported by the national deputy of Mishur, is a very correct law. I thank him for his hard work. For the first time, they made proposals, they worked things out, and now they're going to offer again. Of course, the law provides for a general order of use of the media and provides that they are obliged not to allow any political advertising in the news programmes, to ensure the implementation of the principles of political advertising for all political actors, to be equal to the conditions for the placement of political advertising, I understand that today the Lords of the Intera, the Lords of "1+1", "ICTV", "Ery" are not interested in this, because they promote only their political and business interests and promote every day and poison the people of the Ukrainian people. Therefore, this law must be adopted and adopted as soon as possible. Unfortunately, most people today don't, there are no people who are today who are running for hired journalists for the ropes, they're not here, unfortunately. I have, of course, a reference to this law. In particular, I think that terms like "political advertising," "political counter-advertise" or "anti-advertise," "false political advertising," "unfaithful political advertising," "secret political advertising" should be harmonized. I'm talking to my colleague Mishura, I'm talking to the committee, these terms need to be harmonized around the text. Of course, there is advertising, and no one will say it's fake, it has to be proved in court, it's very hard to prove. But the order of correction in the law of this political advertisement must be provided for in this law and nowhere else. So, dear friends, I'm going to pass this law on you, and I'm going to make it the law of the state. It'll be moral, it'll be decent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u19	Vladimir Puzakov. The next one is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u20	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština The bill is based on articles 15 and 34 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Let's take Article 15 of the Constitution, which says that the State guarantees freedom of political activity. As this "freedom" appears during elections or referendums, we have already made good progress. For example, in order to lower the rating of the Ukrainian Company, pseudocommunist party, CPT, CPWO and CPRS programs were advertised all the time. And all people understand that these pocket parties didn't make commercials for themselves. And where are their leaders today, Yakovenko, Savenko, who are sitting in trenches waiting for a presidential election campaign to re-advertise the bill of their soul as Ukrainians? If we're not allowed censorship, article 15, why can't I, as a communist, come on the radio and say hello to my fellow countrymen for any holiday? And if this is done in writing, then don't let God talk about Soviet time or say the word "communist," and they'll never let that text on air. The proposed Law on Political Advertising should address a number of important issues. But I can't accept the words of Dmitri Tobacco that censoring words is in European countries, and it appears as a reference to freedom of speech. Tell me, Mr. Tobacco, where is the freedom of political advertising like in Ukraine? For example, a trip by Mr. President of the Plains took place as a pianist, that is, a propagandisti-media action that is very concerned about the welfare of her father’s nation. This ad and ad already goes on to support the Couchma for the third term. They advertise it as the good of the people. How he also cares about the construction of an atomic station, about veterans, and especially about the village! And they can't see he's not there. But he was not alone on this trip. He was accompanied by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Litwin. But only the President was advertised everywhere. Even the name of Lithuania was not given. Why? Is that freedom, too? So, does it turn out that the head of the highest legislative body of the state was among the President's people? The head of the Supreme Council is not a boy on the run from the President, but the first official of the highest legislative body of the same country. Although the President did not think that his actions had demeaned the role of the Supreme Council and demonstrated his indiscretion in order to raise his image, which he does not have today. I would like to believe that the implementation of the legal norms laid down in this law will allow for the development of democratic principles in the political life of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u21	The word is given by Vladimir Yavorowski. The next school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u22	Vladimir Yavorowski, Victor Yushchenka's block, "Our Ukraine", the Majority District of Yavorovščina and Zvkovščina in Lvivščina. Dear colleagues, the venerable remnants of the majority, as well as our voters! I'm working on a committee on freedom of speech. We discussed every position of the bill in a pedantic and succinct manner and concluded that the Mishura bill was urgently needed today. It fits into our Ukrainian situation today. The need for such a law is ripe, and we will work on it. And for the second reading, let's clear up some of the little things that are there. I'd like to say, given such an opportunity, something else. It seems to me that the situation that is now both in political advertising and in political advertising, obviously, and about this phenomenon we need to talk about today, has practically created a qualitative new situation. That's what I'm It seems to me that a special radio listener and a special TV viewer have already appeared in Ukraine today, who has learned to see things the other way around, a smart person is beginning to think that this is all the other way around. Of course we can't get past yesterday's vacchanal, which, I'm sure, in the evenings of those few hours, we rejected Ukraine in the matter of freedom of speech, I'm sure a few decades ago. Because what was shown yesterday was a truly wicked lie, the heroes who were, because they showed one of the heroes who supposedly protected our beautiful Paradise of Richter and the newspapers say that he broke his jaw to his own wife. Well, from where I'm from, I can't just understand what happened: that kind of love for one and such a strange love for one's own. Instead of showing yesterday, to educate the national drama that's practically happening today, one of the richest countries that are agrarian, I mean, which could feed half of Europe, today every Ukrainian has to think about how it winters, whether it's enough or not. Instead, they show us that, look, the opposition, it's like she's broken. We didn't blow anything yesterday, and if we did, it might be the wisest thing we could do to stop the madness we're seeing today. I think instead of asking our President to apologize to his people and go to the monastery, he wants to sit on this little Russian throne again. Because of this, Valeria, I am addressing the author of this law, I thank you for this bill. And what I mean is, I think, even if this law doesn't come true, it's because it's political for smart people that they're only helping them to understand what kind of authority we have today and what channels it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u23	The word is given to Andrew Schleak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u24	The school of Andrews, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, the Ukrainian National Assembly. I would normally like to point out that this bill, in solidarity with my colleague, is necessary and necessary for Ukraine. But I would also like to make sure that we read it very carefully, carefully on second reading, and get rid of some elements that can be used and against opposition as well. That is, it must be clear and unambiguous, which protects the right of every political force to equal advertising. That's it. I think he's ready for the first reading, and for the second reading, we are the Supreme Council to correct, carefully track, communicate, contact with lawyers and prepare a thorough, quality, regulatory law that is absolutely necessary, that is to discuss the need for this law simply is not necessary, because its necessity is ripe. And mixing it with the election law is not worth it, because now we see advertising at every turn that is not related to elections or even related to certain political parties, it has to do with certain political trends. So pick a two-bedroom parliament -- and you'll be in Europe, reading on the boards, riding the Ukrainian roads. Choose, you know, less MPs, and we'll get, we'll read it in the newspapers, and we'll get more benefit and opportunity to pay our pensions. I mean, it's a normal speculation and it's not fake. But I would like to make it clear that this bill is limited primarily by the pronouncing and all in the languages of the administrative resource. And we have to limit it as much as we can, cut it, because it will result in a qualitative improvement in the electoral process in general. And I'd also like to add, of course, to what the colleagues said about the session of yesterday's parliament. I just want all the radios and all the voters who listen to us to understand that yesterday was stopped, at least suspended. Yesterday was suspended as simple and direct as the President's proposals, the scheme of voting for the project, the Constitutional Court's conclusion, the referendum with the result programmed, the permanent presidency of Kuchma. That's what we stopped. I don't know if in the context of this prime minister, the all-U.S. premiere of the American film Terminator-3, will it not be an element of political advertising, because I have this resounding, the name of this film with the project that was proposed on the Bank's and its anti-crisis manager, because then, really, in Ukraine, "Terminator-3" would come to power, and it would do anything that hadn't yet been destroyed, sold and implemented in Ukraine. So what I'm stressing is that we need to adopt this bill in the first reading, prepare it, comb it into the second. And later on, I think you could accept it as the law in the autumn session. And one more thing. I am convinced that we will not be able to implement through the walls of at least this Parliament the anti-State project, the draft constitutional rebellion that was proposed yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Discussion time is over. From the government, the word is given to the first deputy head of the Television and Radio Committee of Onufrychuk Mikhail Yakovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u26	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! We support the proposed bill and believe that it can be taken as a basis and further adopted as a law. At the same time, we think that we need to be more specific in terms of "false political advertising," "political counter-advertise," "anti-advertise," "secret political advertising," "unkind political advertising," which, by its content, duplicates each other. There are a number of other comments and wishes that will be submitted in writing to the author of the Bill Valery Dmitrovich Mishuri. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u27	Thank you, too, Mikhail Yakovich. Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on Political Advertising has been completed. We will make a decision at the appointed time. The draft Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Land Transporters is being announced for consideration. Now we're going to be looking at this and the following bills in a simplified way. Reporter: National Deputy of Ukraine Mikhailo Markovich Dobkin I'm asking you to prepare yourself as a co-rapporteur. So let's define the procedure. Report to five minutes, co-reporter to five minutes. Then we'll talk for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u28	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, present! You're looking at a draft law on mandatory civil liability insurance for transport owners. In accordance with the Ukrainian Insurance Act, the insurance of civil liability of the owners of the means of transport is attributed to compulsory types of insurance. Nevertheless, at present the current legislation of Ukraine does not provide for any mechanisms to control the existence of the owners of transport assets in valid contracts of such insurance. As a result, the civil code of Ukraine, according to which the owner of the vehicle that caused the accident must compensate the victims, is mainly used in dealing with cases of damage caused by the high-risk owner. This is usually done on the basis of the driver’s own resources and the compensation procedure is prolonged for a considerable period. The material situation not only of the victims but also of the guilty one and his family has deteriorated significantly. The experience of many countries regarding compulsory insurance for civil liability of transport owners has shown that the introduction of compulsory insurance for civil liability of owners of vehicles solves problems of compensation for damage caused by accidents. In economically developed countries, the social protection of victims in road traffic is achieved through a compulsory civil liability insurance mechanism. For example, this compulsory insurance is being implemented in virtually all European countries in the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia, and now Russia, Belarus. In the drafting of the bill, European legislation on insurance was based on insurance. Dear colleagues! It is also worth noting that this bill has already been drafted, and many comments and suggestions have been received on the text, both from the National MPs and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and insurance campaigns. As a result, a working group was set up with the participation of the national deputies of the Ministry of Finance and Insurance, as well as the newly created commissions for the control of the insurance market. As a result, the work has been created, the fruits of our work together are now being brought to your attention. The result of the working group was the adoption of the bill in the first reading. This is true of both national deputies, members of the working group and representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers. The adoption of the bill will soon allow us to take additional measures to protect our citizens and the environment from the possible negative consequences of the accident. And I would like to point out, to your attention, that this bill will allow our citizens who were involved in the accident not to appear in the situation where they are in the moment of the accident. And if a person has money, he pays and compensates for damage done to a third person or pays for the treatment of his health. If there is no money, the victim must remain alone with his problem. This law, when enacted, will remove this injustice and all liability for the damage is borne by insurance companies. The value of this insurance is equal to one year for those owners of vehicles that in our country are the vast majority, and the amount of such insurance will not exceed approximately 100 bracelets per year. [[We've been counting.]] [[I am referring to the owners of Soviet machinery, where the engine does not exceed one and a half thousand cubic centimetres.]] That's an absolutely affordable amount. And the amounts that will be paid in the event of an accident to compensate for the loss suffered by a person are disproportionately higher. In some cases, when it comes to life and health, such payments will reach more than 50,000 bracelets, as stipulated by the bill. I would also like to say that, in order for this form of insurance to be free from abuse, it is proposed to establish a very serious control over all participants in the insurance market, including representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, members of the people. There's a complex control system. So that the fund would be counted if the insurance company refused to compensate. And this fund assumes the responsibility of recovering these losses so that there will always be compensation for damage in any unforeseen situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Sit down, Mikhailo Markovich. We agreed, and it's agreed that the procedure has been shortened. It's okay to enter, please. So I understand everything very well, we agreed on the Conciliation Council, your honorary colleagues. I'm asking you to proceed. If it does, I'll give it to you. Now, one minute, Bespaly. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u30	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am, indeed, literally out of procedure. In our Conciliation Council, this is a purely advisory body. In recent times, we have been having a very difficult discussion. And I don't know on what grounds the committees here are making some suggestions that the law is being discussed for three minutes or five minutes. Although we do have a very clear regulatory requirement. The law is discussed either by full procedure or by a reduced procedure, where there are 4 necessarily speakers. There are no other options for a committee, according to the Conciliation Council, they simply do not comply with the Rules and are illegal. For example, according to the previous law, which was discussed in full procedure, even four speakers were not given the floor. So I'm asking you very much to organize such a way that the MPs have the opportunity to actually discuss the law essentially to the rules of procedure, not to the committee or any other motions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Mikola Kravchenko, please, then Cranovil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u32	Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I am fully with the people's MP Bespallian. Today, the Conciliation Council cannot be more than the Supreme Council and deprive me of the right to participate in the discussion of the full programme, especially such a serious document. You know, in the past, I have proved that, yes, there is a need to adopt such a document. But there were rules to be written, and they were not included in the law. In this law, the report makes no sense what the role of the supervisory authority will be, who will be the main insurance company and so on. In short, we're looking at a fund that's going to be billions. We already have a legitimate state social security fund with you, and the one that has already concluded that people have broken up and dispersed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u33	Thank you. Taras Cranville.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u34	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I have three very hard procedural observations. First. This law was passed for the first time as a law from one tape. To date, this law has been replaced by more than a dozen articles. Can this be done, at all? When the MPs are familiar with the first option, they simply will not see the outcome and will not know what it is. The other one. It was for the first option that he could go as a bill on a reduced procedure, a version of a law that contained really a few dozen articles, that he couldn't follow a simplified procedure. This is a huge volume. And the third. In all the accompanying documents, both the Scientific and Expert Office, and in a document that, the explanatory note and the conclusions of the committee, does not mention the main point. So we've actually been manipulated by forgeries. It is not mentioned that there is a fund that is being created that is not known how, we do not know who is being financed and managed. This moment, as far as I'm concerned, what we've been hiding gives us reason to take this law off the table, re-examine and deal with it fully.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! There were comments about me. I'll answer with your permission. And I totally agree with Boris Bespali. We, the four of us, even more, are speaking when we're even considering a reduced procedure, all of us who signed up, there's no warning here about that. But, dear colleagues, I want to pay attention. Come on, count it, at ten o'clock we're starting a meeting on Friday. We've been looking for 40 minutes, although it's not a procedure, and you're always agreeing, we're looking at parliamentary requests. Then you don't mention the procedure. You remember the procedure when something is burning for you personally. The second moment I want to talk about. Today, 12 drafts have been tabled. I would like to ask the distinguished national deputies: How can they be considered? I asked and I suggested, if this pain is to be discussed in depth and in detail, and in every way, all the bills, let's keep working. Don't look for clues where they don't exist. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Today, what we have on our roads is very much like fighting. And this conclusion confirms the figures of the wounded and the dead. Over the past five years, 30 thousand,621 Ukrainian citizens have been killed, and 191,000 199 have been injured, and more than 200,000 cars have been killed. Of those affected, only 2 percent had insurance policies. Only 3 percent of the victims received partial compensation from the State and insurance companies. I would like to remind you that today legislation remains unregulated in how the compulsory civil liability insurance of land transport owners should be implemented. But this does not mean that this type of insurance is not being implemented. The Law on Insurance stipulates that the regulation of this species is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This bill was discussed three times on the committee. There were so many comments, they're all taken into account. The committee decided to support this very important bill for the insurance sector in the first reading. But we hope that with the help of the second - reading deputies, it will be even more perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. As Boris Jakovitch Bespalij reminded us, he's gone, we need two in favor, two in favour, four in favor. On the board, please show me the names of the national MPs who are registered. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of our Ukraine. Get ready for Nemirowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u38	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I thought, what do we do? Now I'm talking to you out loud. If the Insurance Act provides for 34 types of compulsory insurance, 34 deputies will introduce 34 mandatory insurance laws. What are we going to do? Will we accept it if we follow that logic? We'll take it. And the committee will approve, all right. I can't say anything to my colleague Frost. The committee considers it necessary. And I want us to approach a complex consideration of issues once and for all, just to be complex. They went up, they went up in their consciousness to systematization, to codify legislation, and they realized that 34 kinds of compulsory insurance by 34 laws to settle -- it's called nonsense. And when we settle them, and what's the point of doing it, if you can do it in a completely different way. How can this be done? This can be done by amending the Road Traffic Act, the Police Code, the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code. Why? Because the law on order insurance and the conditions for its execution are approved by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 99th year No. 1175. But the government, both one and the other, and the third did nothing to ensure that the responsibility was established to ensure that the decision was implemented. Let's just set the responsibility first. Secondly, we now have very good proposals made by the author of the bill, and we will introduce other laws, thank them, and make civilised legislation. Now let's think about it, 191 thousand wounded. Only more deaths than in Afghanistan have the entire Soviet Union lost in 10 years of war. What's that all about? On account of the absence of insurance? Is It Bad Roads? On account of the fact that you allowed 65,000 Russian cars that were not equipped with safety pillows that were not ready to crash last year. So, then, what else is going on? So let's probably if we care about people, make sure they're all with pillows, normal cars to let go, so they meet world standards, not just the pockets of oligarchs who want to bring them here, because it's going smoothly. Therefore, dear friends. This law is required, only in the section of the insurance laws, and a separate chapter on transport means needs to be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u39	National Deputy Nemirowski. None. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u40	School of Andrews, Yulia Block faction Timoshenko, 121 constituency district, Lvivščina I would like to stress first that, of course, the law itself is necessary. It doesn't matter what form he's in. Is it added to the insurance law or will it be a separate law? There's a need for regulation. But I'll be honest with you, not in this way. The one who promoted this bill from under the field and so much so, he served the poor service of both the owners of the means of transport and those who wanted to use this bill and then the law for some of its own, perhaps its own benefit. Because in this way this bill cannot be proposed to Parliament. I'm telling you again, there was going to be a broad discussion, there was going to be an understanding. Because. It'd be 100 bucks a year. Even if it's 50. It's about creating another fund. And we need to know the nature of it, we need to know the regulation of internal relations in this fund and the ability to control it. It's all written out there weakly. And the main thing is that it's not widely discussed. It was true that at first the bill was narrow and not acceptable. I understand the committee that wanted to fix it. By constantly correcting this, it has grown into a broad ten - page bill that needs to be discussed more broadly. And my suggestion to the authors of the law to recall it, process it and submit it during a normal period of discussion, i.e. for a full procedure. Because right now you're going to call for this kind of promotion, it's counterproductive. And now I've been approached by the owners of vehicles, knowing what's going on in Russia right now. A person who owns vehicles that are particularly inexpensive is not always a rich and wealthy person, we know that. Because they stayed away from their parents and grandparents, these miserable cars that barely drive. In Russia there is now a strike because there is also compulsory social insurance. True, this coincided with an increase in the rate of duty on foreign vehicles, but it is not an exception either. So I just, my offer is sincere, call it off. , rework or agree immediately that re-reading with a view to letting it go to normal discussion, because it is not possible to use quality and necessary. There are no opponents in my person or in the person of the deputies of the Supreme Council, opposers of the social insurance of automobiles. I remember that even in the first version of the law, when there was a misunderstanding in the very sentence of the name, it was corrected. And they fixed a lot of other details. But I'm going to stress, again, that we need to put in a normal way, not to disturb the public, not to trigger, as they say, fire on ourselves and not fire on this bill. That's my offer. I want her to be dusted by the drafters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u41	Yes, Your Honor, who is behind this bill? We've already heard the point of view. Who's in? Please. Eugene Red.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! I fully agree with my colleague Karmazin. with Andrey Schlem. Of course, we are lacking in systemicity, but let us speak differently. If we're one step at a time, the declarations, the vouchers on the table, it's not on the table. If we step by step by law, we do not move forward, we will not get anything. Today, compulsory insurance is just a noise, which is what is needed on the road today. I understand the poor sections of the population. But today it is not even in the poor. There are different cost cars on the roads. The road traffic is very tense. Some bridges are about to be repaired in Kiev. You see what happens in the capital in the morning, in the evening. The machine is being purchased, whether we want it or not, more and more. The market grew by a hundred percent. There are different kinds of people behind the wheel, and there are different kinds of conditions. You know, we're often not in a very legal relationship, and when, for example, the six hundredths knock down a poor Prisoner, there are other mechanisms that are illegal. And pressure on the judges. So let's think about why we're doing the Ukrainian bike again. The whole world, rich or poor, cannot cross Hungary or Poland without a green card. A car is a means of increased danger. We can't do it. What about the fund? You know, when it's the Motor Bureau, I'm telling you how a person is not a stranger to cars. And its operation is governed by international treaties. Why don't you ask, what is an SMAP organization that has a contribution of $5,000 or $8 per participant in international transfers? Deposit. It's a responsibility. The other one. This is the Motor Office she's delegating her functions to insurance companies, believe me. Today, there is great competition among insurance companies and they are already fighting for their image. I believe that compared to other fights with other damage, the following law I believe is the responsibility of roads as the secretary of a committee of profile, the responsibility of the management of road construction for damage to a car, because these holes damage the car. But if we don't go and take this very first important step, and the sooner we don't go anywhere. Everything will sink again in declarations and in other areas of our life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u43	Yeah, who else is behind this bill? You hold the hand, you hold the hand, you hold the hand, you hold the hand, you hold the hand, you hold the hand. All I do is look to the left, to the right, and then the others get offended. City boy, please. Then Yavorowski, then Kravchenko. Yavorowski is recorded, from the site of the microphone of Ratushnyak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u44	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I just think that if there's a goal to kill a fly on the head, you don't have to do that with a shovel. It is certainly a civilized norm for insurance for transportation, real estate, and health. But, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think if we did it through a monopoly state insurance company, I would believe her and I would be insured there. As for today’s commercials, it is practically accumulating funds that are washed through the pockets of the same oligarchs as the Supreme Council and the entire state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u45	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u46	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Yavorovščina, Jovkovščina, Majority District. Dear colleagues, I can view myself as a professional driver, since I have been driving for over two decades and have traveled some 35,000 miles [35,000 km] a year, even 40. And one purely life's question. I was very ironic about all these insurance companies, there, and so forth. Last year he went to Crimea, driving alone. On the second day he left, rained like this on the Crimean roads. It turns out there's this kind of soap effect: when there's no rain for a long time and then there's this rain, it's very dangerous. There's a car coming out of the turn, it's hitting me on the right side. Panic, broke my door, back wing. And all of a sudden, I remember that before I went to Crimea, I wouldn't have thought of it myself, but my daughter, a TV showgirl, literally made me secure the car. I ordered it, fixed it all the time. And believe me, I came from Crimea, the insurance company, paid the station money brilliantly, and in about two weeks, the car was repaired so that you wouldn't tell me what it was. But I understand perfectly that I'm a national MP, they know, there, my peak, there, they ran, there, and so forth. I don't know how it would have been with someone else, how much he had to walk. So I stand by the fact that, of course, and here Ratushniak has already said that, in fact, we have to go through this civilization, this road, of course, the world lives on it and there are no problems, the machine is insured. But we have to keep in mind that this law will apply not only to us, but to the millions of drivers who live in Ukraine. And of these, 80 to 90 percent of people are poor people. And today, toss them into compulsory insurance, we'll walk with you and smell their backs, call us by name, and so forth. So I'm also absolutely convinced that don't let Dobkin take offense at me, and I'm convinced that this law is still lobbying, lobbying with certain structures there and so forth. I don't want to blame anyone. Don't catch me. That's why I think and support in this school that this law doesn't have to be rejected, it would be foolish, but let's just send it back to re-reading. And in the fall we have to look at these funds, how it is, what it needs to be clear, clearly, only then do we vote for it. I say again, this law is necessary, but we need to take it to an absolute X-ray and stop all possible abuses that might be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u47	Please, Mikola Kravchenko. What, what? One minute, you'll be in the end when we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u48	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Respectable colleagues. Kravchenko, Communist faction, President of the All-Ukrainian Union for the Protection of Drivers' Rights. In the past, I'm going to expand the historical record a little bit, and in the past, I was one of the initiators of this law, which is a compulsory state insurance. In the past, we have also worked on it, we have written it out, and the tax rate is back, there is a compulsory payment of between 30 and 70 bracelets for a particular person. The concessional category of people who participated in the war and so on was also taken into account. Nevertheless, the law has not been passed in that way. Why didn't he pass? Only because we live with you in a particular country and in a particular historical time where money is not available. And today I understand, and those tens of thousands, millions of drivers understand that today the civilized form of the relationship between drivers and, otherwise, the insurance. But today we are trying to pass through the hall a bill that is ten times worse than the one that has been convened in the past, which is not agreed upon by factions who are trying to carry on without discussion on Friday and so on. I speak to the authors. I don't know who's behind you, how this could be because you're in Parliament for the first year, let's go back to the first reading procedure, let's look at everything, let's write it out for different categories. There are mechanisms. Moreover, in the autumn we will quietly work out this bill. If you leave him like this, we'll basically bury it as a normal endeavor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u49	Please, Suslov Viktor Ivanovich, head of the State Commission on Financial Services Markets. Government position on the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u50	Dear People's Deputies! The Government of Ukraine supports the approval by the Supreme Council of the draft Ukrainian Law on mandatory insurance of civil liability of transport owners in the first reading. This is an official position. But as a national deputy of the two previous congresses, I would like to add that for the first time I have reported this project here in 1996. Since then, two of our assemblies have spent time discussing this project, so to speak, in search of perfection. And now I hear the same arguments are coming up again, about. I have not seen another way out, it has been seven years for me to take the first reading and the overall effort, taking into account all the comments made, with the participation of our commission and the Government to finalize it. Finally, we need to take a step forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u51	Final word to the author of the bill. Just hurry up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! I want to say something like that, no one takes a pound on Friday. This bill has already been submitted four times. It just wasn't his turn. It was both Tuesday and Wednesday. That's why no one's trying to pull the phone around here. As far as my colleague's concerned, I don't want to name my last name, but on the right of me, I mean, yes, I'm really lobbying. I'm really lobbying, I'm not ashamed of it. Two weeks ago, a close man of mine was in an accident. And I've been, we've got, in Harikov, that's four emergency hospitals. I've got a man over there with 15 from the RV. Five of them could not afford to buy drugs for money that were not available to doctors at the moment. I'm not saying it right or wrong. But I lobbied the interests of those who would be able to pay money by insurance companies, and in such situations, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, the draft law on mandatory civil liability insurance for land transport owners has been completed. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. I have only one request and one warning, my dear colleagues. Let us with our own mouths, by our own efforts, not disgrace Parliament. It's about stretching. All of this is a matter that is agreed upon by Parliament, the Conciliation Council, foreshadowed by the schedule of meetings. Let's get out of this. And give your own evaluation of the project, not the question. It's being announced. And here I'd like to consult with you, dear colleagues. We have three projects involving political parties. We'll see each other separately then, won't we? So you don't want to bring a purse? Will all of us consider at the same time? Different? Okay. Let's make it quick. A draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Sergey Slabenko, please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u54	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft law amending certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Law on Political Parties provides for the completion of the Civil Procedure Code and amendments to the Law on the Unification of Citizens. This rule was provided for in the Political Parties Act, which deals with the procedure before the Supreme Court of Ukraine concerning the prohibition of political parties and the cancellation of registration certificates. There are no such procedural rules today, and the Supreme Court today applies an analogy to other administrative matters. So there's a need for the law to regulate the procedure for dealing with these issues -- that's the first element. The second term refers to the Law on the Unification of Citizens, which was passed five years earlier by the Law on Political Parties, and on the basis of which political parties were formed and functioned until the law became effective. Today, there is a need to eliminate the gap between the rules contained in the Law on the Unification of Citizens and the Law on Political Parties. This is the purpose of this bill. It is mainly legal and technical in nature and ensures that the standards that were approved in the adoption of the Political Parties Act in Ukraine are met. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u55	Have a seat, please. Is Sergey Slubenko there? Who's from the committee? Is anyone present from the Legal Policy Committee? Let's move on to the discussion then. Please have the name of the national MPs on the sign-up table. The committee's proposal is to go back to work, so I understand, this is a project. Please, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, prepare for Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u56	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear People's Deputies, the 2015 Bill is certainly very important. It's very important, and that's why I want to talk about the dangers that this particular bill can pose. In principle it is right to supplement the code with a new article, I support the Ministry of Justice. And I support the minister. The only thing the minister may not have figured out is whether or not he's got it all figured out in some ways. These nuances can completely destroy democracy in Ukraine. The law on political parties in Ukraine states that it is only the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Attorney General of Ukraine in one person, Alexandre Volodymyrovich. However, the position of your bill, which you have just reported, raises such a question that it seems that both the prosecutor and the prosecutor are able to ask this question and can direct a motion to cancel the political party's registration, which is not envisaged by the Political Parties Act at all. So I think that's the kind of thing that needs to be determined. Of course, we can't extend our powers, and we can't hit political parties. And so today we know about the demands of the President's Administration to the Ministry of Justice that it expresses, to reduce the number of parties and even the number that we know, Alexander Volodymyrovich, to which we need to reduce. I would like to take advantage of the fact that Alexander Volodymyrovich is a law-abiding man, to address him and those workers who work, so that this is very, very carefully done. The same procedural arrangement and the 248 with the 27 and the addition with chapter 31-D, I think it's possible, unless we miss these violations that I said, if we don't break, we won't fix the situation in 248-28, where only 10 days are given to the court. But at what point? Since Minist filed or the Attorney General's Office has filed, and is it possible now to post and rely entirely on what the Attorney General's Office will do? That is why such a law is needed in principle. I'm in his favor, but he needs to be cleaned on the second reading as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u57	Vladimir Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. As we know, more than 130 political parties have been registered in Ukraine. This number of parties is, of course, surprising to people around the world. This is clearly an abnormal phenomenon, which indicates that the Ukraine Political Parties Act, which was in force before 2002, was not perfect, and this has generally been used by individuals pursuing useful goals to gain the status of a member and no longer. Neither did the power structures stay away and contribute to the establishment of virtually one-day parties and clan parties in the electoral canon, providing them with financial support. The aim is to confuse the people with unarmed eyes, to scatter voters' voices, and to distract people from opposition parties. All previous elections showed that most parties did not receive voter support. Few people voted for them. The participation of such parties in the electoral process only complicates the work of the regional and central electoral commissions. The Political Parties Act of 2003 will mainly help to reduce the number of parties, but we do not see enough. In order to radically change the situation, it is necessary to change the standard necessary for the registration of the party laid down in section III, article 10. It is appropriate to replace the “10,000 citizens” rule, which should support the signing of the decision of the founding assembly or of the party-building conference, with the “30-50,000” rule. Citizens." In addition, it is necessary to develop a monitoring mechanism by the Ministry of Justice in the establishment of urban, district and regional organizations, which were often created only on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u59	Insomnia. Boris Bespali, please. Do you mind, Boris Yakovitch?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u60	I'll tell you what. Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues! Indeed, there is a problem of fictitious parties spoken of here, and this discredits multipartyism, and therefore the reduction of the party registers currently being conducted by the Ministry of Justice has generally had a positive trend, by the way, no mass protests in connection with the de-registration of non-existent parties are going on. So this is saying that there are really fictitious parties. But in a particular law, I have serious doubts about some of his specific positions. First. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine has the right to appeal to the court about the expulsion of the party, its withdrawal from registration under this law. But the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office are clearly defined by the Constitution and there are such or similar positions of supervision by the Public Prosecutor's Office of parties and other positions that would allow for the interpretation of the role of the Public Prosecutor's Office in such an act. And there is no such thing, and in the transitional positions of the Constitution there is still a similar norm in the Political Party Act, but I think it's appropriate to ask the question of excluding this from the Party Act, and I don't think the Attorney General's Office, who, in my opinion, has the most qualified investigator in Ukraine, should also be involved in such matters and does not then have the resources to do the core work. The second question. I am extremely concerned that the party may not be allowed to register for another three years if in three years untrustworthy information is found in the documents provided for registration. There are large lists of voters and, for example, one of the people who support a party that is wrongly listed for example for the year of birth, and this could be or similar to some of the moments that you can deliberately assume, can be used to remove a party from registration at the very moment that is not suitable for that, for example, the electoral days, and then to the bottom of the barrels you can protest as much as you want. I'm just going to remind all of us that sometimes in the election, such "dirty" technology, when it's done, a good candidate registers with an MP who has unreliable information: a place of work, a year of birth, there, a parent. Then, if an unwanted candidate wins, a lawsuit goes to court and the results of the election are annulled. And we had these precedents, especially in Kiev. So I think these standards are very dangerous. Now it's about pros or cons. Of course, such things can be adopted in a second reading, and there will be no tragedy if the law is passed. But practice shows that the procedure for reviewing and adopting laws in the second reading has become very formal. So I think this bill needs to be removed from it first, so dangerous to democracy, and only then will it be adopted in a second reading. So perhaps rereading the first reading would be a better solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u61	I mean, you're in favour of going against it. Please, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Solomonine, please. It's possible from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u62	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. There are certain dangerous gaps in this law that can lead to anything that interferes with our political life and the exercise of the right of every political party to its activities and to promote its views, to defend the programmatic positions of its political organization. It is therefore vital that this law, taking into account the comments that have been made, be carefully worked out. And only in this case could he perform the function proclaimed in the preamble to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u63	Clearly, you don't want to do that. This issue is closed, we move on to the next, 1288, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. So we're in, we're in. We're in, we're in. Leukko Grigorovitch, please, if there's anything important, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Lukyanenko, Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. What existed in Ukraine was 124 political parties or more, a phenomenon of such a transitional nature: after a total totalitarian dictatorship, a nut was turned away, and so many parties were formed. Of course, it's a transitional period, and it can't be called unnatural, because it's natural to have a transition period from totalitarianism to democracy itself. But it is equally clear that it is necessary to promote creation in Ukraine, well, tens, sevens, fives or more that truly represent large segments of our society. And then they would have a real impact on the formation of power and all the things that are happening in our country. The Law on Political Parties began this evolution of the political system. And as such, he is very positive. The current changes reported to us by the minister of justice are undoubtedly such that they will have to be supported. But there are some things I'd like to say. First of all, after the Attorney-General has filed the case, the Supreme Court is considering, therefore, the removal of the party's national status, the Supreme Court of Ukraine is considering it at first instance. And the right to appeal no longer exists. So this problem, you can't think of it as normal. I think it's still necessary to leave the right of appeal, that is, to consider the party's withdrawal or to move it to a lower level, or to foresee that an appeal may be filed with the plenary of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Then it would be an additional guarantee that the party would not be shot because of some random sort of thing. I'm absolutely in agreement with the Inflammable, who spoke here and noticed that some formal inaccuracies made by the political party might be the key to taking it off the table. This will need to be clarified so that such trifles, such as really, for example, the year of birth is not accurate or in the name of something that is not accurately stated or anything else, do not cause such trifles to be removed from the political party. Now, one more moment. In principle, I'm very positive about this limitation, this evolution of our political system, and so I think maybe the 10,000 is not enough. You could say that the status of the Ukrainian political party could be used by a party that has 15 or 20 thousand members, let's say. It would also be one of those legal batogs that would contribute to the creation of major political parties and the rapid transformation, the rapid disappearance of those 24 political parties, the transition of the Ukrainian political system to, say, first there on the tenth, then seven, then five or something. So that's the ideal that we're talking about, and that's where Ukraine's going to go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u65	Thank you. Question completed. Let's move on to the next one. Please, it's Ratushniak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u66	Thank you for the word. I'm not interested in sub-items. I would like to draw the attention of all the deputies here to the conceptual moments of this bill. Here's a clear line of property to be able to close the party. I'd like her to have the opportunity today's majority, who will be in opposition tomorrow, to keep the parties. So that no configuration in Parliament can be affected by closure. Can we today doubt that Lavrinovich, yesterday’s motorist, now under Yanukovic, Medvedczuk and Kuchma, will defend the interests of the opposition? I don't believe it. And Lavrinovich, in that case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u67	Well, we don't have to. Let's move on to personality. Let's do it on the subject. Here we go to question 1288 of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine. Reported by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Winsky Joseph Vicentiovich. Please. I'd like to remind you that there's been no questions asked by the short-circuited procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u68	Dear National Deputies! If the previous law is intended to limit the activities of political parties, or to put some bureaucratic ones there, I'm absolutely in agreement with the previous statement on this, because this is, we've already dealt with it, and I'll be honest with you. The socialist party of Ukraine, which I represent in the Supreme Council, is absolutely firm against any possibility of bureaucraticly restricting or disbanding parties. It's not for officials to determine whether a party is needed or not, for people to determine whether they need it or not. And all the laws in this regard need to be reformed in this direction. Ukraine has two options for political development. To democracy. And that means the only way through the development of political parties. And to dictatorship. This is another way, the development of clan parties. This is what we have today in real life, unfortunately. We want the authors of this bill to implement article 2 of the Political Parties Act in Ukraine. What a political party. I'd like to introduce you again. The political party is a legally-registered voluntary union of citizens, supporters of a national social development programme that aims to promote the formation and expression of the political field of citizens, participates in elections and other political actions. That's what the definition of a party is. Unfortunately, today this large number of parties that we have in Ukraine are not responding to this definition. And we need to think about how to bring the actual activities of political parties into line with that definition. So the first proposal we put into this bill is the following. We must limit the influence of administrative structures on the formation and operation of political parties. We have precedents today, remember, a year ago how one political party was created with the full application of tax administration. When, under the leadership of the State Tax Administration in all the regions in one stroke, all the employees of these administrations were forced into one party or most of the employees, I have these cases. The point is, I have, we have, in the Socialist Party, one of the first secretaries to put the job in the tax administration before the election: either you're leaving the Social Party and you're going to the appropriate party, or we're kicking you out of work. Before that. And other parties, you say it all right. So we suggest that there be no possibility of using force structures and administrative bodies to form and manage parties, add to article 6 of the Political Parties Act a point: employees of the State Tax Administration. We mean that political parties cannot be judges, prosecutors, internal affairs officials, Ukrainian Security Service staff, military officials, and State Tax Administration employees. That's the first money. I think it's absolutely justified, because today, in our tax administration, there's a force block, it's extremely large, and the impact of this block on the situation in the state and on people much higher, which is, for example, the impact of prosecutors or the U.S.A. today. So this absolutely logical proposal to rule out administrative influence on the formation of political parties, because it doesn't match the definition of what political parties are. This is the first position. Next position. Our work under the Political Party Act has shown that unfortunately, in places of justice -- I'm going to use the presence of Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich to hear this -- they're totally abusers of their position, and officials are trying not to promote the political activities of people and political parties, but to prevent them. I understand that, in terms of, for example, the Socialist Party, the element is made clear: the President views us as the main one. The opposition, therefore, is given clear instructions, the socialists are prevented. But the same is true of others. We see the absolute problem today is that the main mass of the party members, where does it unite? In centers or in party organizations, for example, in ours. It's supposed to be in other parties. That is, if there are systemic parties, they are made up of all the party centers that include three, four, five, ten people. And today these centers can't register. Because the procedure for their registration today compels them to undergo the same procedure as that of the district city organizations of these parties. You represent, in order to register the primary organization in the village of Zapillovka, Kharkivka Region, it is necessary to submit a central party body. So Winsky has to sign for the Socizia submission to create three or four thousand primary organizations in some remote village. It doesn't make any sense. This completely inhibits the development of the political initiative of citizens. So the second is what we're proposing. We consider this to be an absolute right and balanced decision. For political parties that do not have a legal personality to foresee the possibility of simple legalization. When it's enough to file an application with the appropriate body of justice and to give an example to the local council or the head of this council that there's an original party organization in this village that's set up as an example of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I'll tell you, we're doing this work today, we're doing about a thousand applications at the primary organizations in about three months, and we're dealing with it. You see, Alexander Volodymyrovich, there are times when our people must carry a pack of chocolate and a bottle of champagne to the district hall of justice to register them. I addressed you with three submissions on behalf of the Socialist Party, three submissions. Zero's on the way out. You have given a letter, and this letter is not used again. Therefore, a legislative solution is needed. An official should not influence or interfere with people’s political unity and political activity. If we want to develop the democratic processes of the state, if we want the parties to become key political players in Ukraine, and they have to define what the Constitution provides for political parties. Two of these proposals are proposed by this bill. He was already with the beard, very slowly he passed the committee. I believe that this bill has the right to life, and it needs to be accepted as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz of the Committee on Legal Policy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Our committee supports the draft amendments to this law on political parties, as reported by Joseph Vicentiovich Winski. But before that, I'd like to say why we need to have a party by definition, not a political form of financial bags or a political form of the mafia. Here's the recent director of the Institute of Sociology, Mikola Alexanderovich Schulga, who just gave me an analytical reference to Sociology. Ukrainian society. [[94-2003 monitoring]] It's an academic institute that has made a clear cut of our society, where it's mostly people who travel by bus, by public transport, are looking for jobs, half of them are unemployed, I want to emphasize -- 45 percent and so on, because this is a real picture of our lives. How do they feel about these issues, whether to a certain extent or to a large extent they relate to our question of political parties? Today they're members of political parties -- two percent -- which is basically normal for any country, i.e. they're politically active people. They believe that more than half of the people in Ukraine should have a multiparty system. Next. They appreciate, well, I'm not going to say how they appreciate the president and others, so they don't have to be quoted in the hall. It's about the social situation. If there were a rally today, a demonstration, would you protest? An extremely high level: nearly half to 46.8 percent are ready for active protests. I think it's, by the way, merit, first of all, opposition parties, activity in recent years. What do you think people are most afraid of right now? Look, the increase in crime is 60 percent, unemployment is 76 percent, hunger is 53 percent. Next. It's about information space. What newspapers are trusted? Of course, the most trusted newspaper in the country is 7.5 percent. But they read the most "Arguments and Facts." Because it's being distributed for free. You understand the reason. Television - 80 or this has something to do with our question, directly, you know whose hands today are television, in whose hands the parties, and they actually did not own the etheric space, they acquired the right of people, the constitutional right to receive objective information. Let's move on. Assess the material standard of life for your family? More than 50 percent of the people called poor, poor, and poor to the average. In terms of employment, I said, half of these people don't have a steady job. A few more strokes are remarkable if you could describe your present life. 84 percent of those surveyed, and I'm repeating the general picture of our society living or quite difficult as long as they're coping with the difficulties, it's 44 percent and they're not likely to survive. Over 40 percent. If you could describe our time. This time suggested by the Institute of Sociology is answered by citizens. This is the time of politicians -- 33 percent, 35 percent beggars and thieves -- 52 percent that we still need to change this life. How the parties should work, which they should be by definition, if today what has changed the most in modern Ukrainian society. That's the state's attitude towards human beings -- 41 percent of citizens do. And tell me, from the list of words listed above, those that are most closely related to the image of modern Ukrainian society. The answer is that the poor are 62 percent, the disorder is 43 percent, the disruptive is 44 percent. And we hear that not everything is bad in our home and that reforms have gone well. This emphasizes once again that the amendment made to the draft Law on Changes in the Law on Political Parties is perfectly correct. We have to restrict, first of all, the legislative way, and all of our political life systems to the formation of parties, not by definition, but the parties that represent the oligartic structures, the mafia and all that is most disturbing to our society today. I would like to take these circumstances into account, to support the project reported by Joseph of Winsky, and to continue to care for parties as state - owned structures in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u71	Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich, your attitude towards the proposed bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. I'm authorized to state the Ministry of Justice's point of view on this bill. I want to say that the two directions proposed for the modernization of the law are supported by the Ministry of Justice. And we understand that these directions apply today only to the 27 parties in Ukraine that have their own network in the areas of Ukraine. And the rest, which totals 99 parties that are currently registered in Ukraine, do not apply this standard. And what the reporter said about the facts that he knew that some district administration had to take candy for registration, I'd like to call it the name of the area, because otherwise it would be the spread of false information or slander on people. If you know the name of the area, please tell me if you want to do what you need to do. And we support the adoption of the law in the first reading. There is a need to correct several positions that need to be brought into line with the terminology of the Constitution. design technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u73	So it turns out, Alexander Volodymyrovich, that you have a broad field of activity to eliminate those political parties that don't have their own centers in the fields. They should have in most areas according to the law. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u74	According to the law, there are now 42 persons, 42 citizens of Ukraine, who want to be a political party in Ukraine. This is what is now enshrined in the Law on Political Parties, as it is interpreted today in the Supreme Court of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, since the proposal for this law and the Cabinet of Ministers, the government in the Ministry of Justice, and the arguments on the appropriateness of this law are supported, we will agree and move on to the consideration of other bills. Okay, yeah. I understand. Please state the name of the national deputies who signed up for the performance. The word is Carmazin. And before Karmazin makes a statement, perhaps Joseph Vikcentiovich’s suggestion to write immediately: The original party organization should also report to the local authorities, write in writing about its creation, because it can come and say that I have reported. He'll say he didn't report it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to both Winsky and Frost and Seminyuk for offering such an offer. I'll remind you that we have 62 thousand people in the ranks of the state tax administration today, including an armed militia. That's almost half the military force that our president plans to leave behind. He's planning to leave 150,000, 62 of them, I say 62 are taxpayers, not tax collectors, I'm just comparing it to understand. And that's why the potential of these people in the election campaign, in the course of some opposition campaign, is extremely broad. There's a lot of decent people there, and we have to provide them today, and that's what we're saying, that they can't join political parties, that's all. Moreover, with regard to your observation, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to the authors of the written report on the establishment of the local administration of justice, it will be the case in the law. Thus, Vladimir Mikhailovich, the authors considered your opinion, perhaps on the Internet or something. I would like to draw attention to the protection of party members who raise important issues. Thus, the head of the regional organization of the Party of Protectors of the Motherland of Alex Bliznyuk, who works as the head of the farm, has about 30 acres [30 ha] of land, a pig farm, cultivates bread, was arrested under interesting circumstances when he received funds to build a church in the interests of the religious community of the city. And to that person who then said that he seemed to demand bribes from him, a member of the district council, a farmer, demanding bribes. Can you imagine? He writes to this man, giving the book, "Thank you for your charity." And so on. That was the way Stalin used to be. And today, this person who exposed the export of the forest outside the Cherkas region, the destruction and sale abroad of this forest, which exposed the beating of citizens who were obstructing the area, was simply taken into custody. Realizing that this is done in order to destroy that farm, that is 30 acres [30 ha] of land. So, Your Honor, we need to adopt this law, we need to improve, we need to provide some guarantees for party leaders who do everything for the people. I think in this case, the story will give me the conclusion that I've given. I think the authorities will be ashamed. We swap places for those who arrested him, with him. I promise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u77	Thank you. George Ponomarenko, please, the Communist faction. Boris Bespaly, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u78	I am in favour of the two positions that are outlined in the draft law on changes in political parties. There were already 62 thousand taxpayers. We've got all the guns before the election. And before the election, there are parties that are almost half the company of Ukraine. We have just held our XXXVII meeting of the Ukrainian Company, and we have made changes to our statutes regarding changes in the adoption of the law on political parties. And they were forced to write, "The primary party organizations are registered under the Political Party Order Act." And there's no such thing as a party law. And I think you can hear the offer of the authors of Winski, Ice cream and Seminyuk. But, I think, Joseph Vicentiyovich, you call only rural and rural. What about the city’s regional significance? What about the cities of district subordination? So it's about fixing, it's about registering primary party organizations. I think it's necessary to take changes like that. But write more clearly the norm. And in order not to return, we have the next law of Igor Greeniv. I would like to say that I also have this observation, that certain norms are not the norm of this law on financing political parties at all. I don't think I'm going to speak out on this. But our agreement is that we need to adopt changes in the laws on political parties regarding the financing of political parties that have passed has passed the appropriate barrier in the elections, but there are many observations. And I'll give them to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u79	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u80	Boris Bespalij, Ukrainian People’s Party, city of Kiev The problem that led the authors to introduce this bill is, we all understand it. It is a brutal abuse of power that has become widespread. But I want to ask all of us. Is the problem limited to the formal membership of those or other officials in the party? In my view, abuse goes uninterruptedly, and it is a massive and total phenomenon. So I didn’t bring the problem to such formality. We all knew that once before, twenty years ago, because the CPD is the inspiration and organizer of everything that's going on. And someone today is responsible, for example, for the food crisis, what is the political power in the state? I think that the problem in Ukraine is precisely the political anonymity of power, the non-disclosure of the President, for example, it's rather a pity than joy. And that includes, by the way, government officials. That's why the attitude here, I don't think, is that clear. Regarding specific suggestions. I don't think we need to support the tax administration part of the tax department. Here it is in principle no different from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And this has to be taken fully into account. As for the civilian employees of the State Tax Administration, I have great doubts. There is a certain discrepancy. Then let us also deprive all civil servants, officials of local self - government, of this right. And by the way, it doesn't fully comply with the Constitution, which is what the conclusion of the Science-Expert Authority is talking about. So this question, I think, remains open. Next problem. Legalization of local centres I think the initiative of the drafters is very good, but maybe it's not completely consistent. Or in modern conditions, it should not be brought to an end in a sequential way. I am generally convinced that, as in democratic countries, as in Ukraine, there should be no such institution as the registration of a political party. Actually, the parties don't exist with the permission and the charity of power, but the parties do exist, and that's the right of citizens. And the license to do that is an allogeneic thing. So I think that parties, just like public organizations, as well as trade unions, should basically just report on their creation. If they are formed and there is a violation of their activities, then the authorities should refer to the court rather than to the party’s preventive approach to power, i.e. there is a presumption of guilt in politically active people. But since we can't, let's say, achieve it all at once, move one step at a time, I think it's logical to adopt this law in the first reading, because there's a reason for it to improve to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u81	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I also share the view that this bill should be adopted, that the issue of parties should be dealt with in a legislative manner, and that it should be placed in the appropriate context of the legal field, and that the parties should act in this legal field, and behave accordingly, and that they should be protected by law. That's why I'm in favor of the first reading of the bill. Now, with regard to some painful points, perhaps not as much of a bill as the problem of political party activity itself. First of all, it's a matter of registration. I'd like to support the Bezpalog MP, which is a certain nonsensence at all in the license of registration. If everyone has the right to be a member of the party, the parties can form, claim their own creation, but they register, John Alexanderovich, and they register on the basis of their claim that they were made. If there is a violation of the law, then some sanctions are already being applied. So we can't, in the end, end up depending on the civil servant's will to form a political party, and all of a sudden, someone's going to do the wrong thing, so we need to think about this mechanism, which is how the party testifies to its existence. The second question. It's about who might be a member of the party. I'm just sharing the novels that are in this bill -- relative to the officers' ownership and, in particular, the officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Tax Administration, which can't be an organization where there are armed forces. This question also needs to be resolved, and there is an attempt to resolve it. Third moment. How are the centers legalized? So it's all about legalizing the party itself and legalizing the centers. Yeah, yeah. And here I'm also supporting the novel about how this should happen. But the question is, if you even go the way you're going, how do you register? Report to the head or to the radio? I still think it's for the council. Not the council's head should decide, I talked to the justice minister about this, he just told me about this, he shares this opinion that there should be an appeal, not to the council's head, but to the council. We need to bring it into line with constitutional terminology, for example, not "became valid," but "became effective."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u84	And the last. My dream, my dream, is that in Ukraine there will be parties of Parliamentary type that are only being formed practically under elections that don't have any action going on all the time -- parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u86	When a party official asked: are you a member of the party? He said no, I'm her brain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, we are finalizing the draft law amending the Ukrainian Political Parties Act. The decision will be made in the light of the discussion. A draft law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts has been announced for consideration in connection with the introduction of State funding for political parties. Igor Green's reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u88	Green Games, "Our Ukraine, Party of Reforms and Order." Dear Chief! Deputies! The bill that we are considering today is a bill that proposes to amend several laws of Ukraine. First of all, about the political parties in Ukraine, "The Election of People's Deputies," "The Central Election Commission," "The National Audit Service in Ukraine." The bill is designed to introduce two forms of State support for political parties. It's the constant funding of those political parties that play an essential role in society and compensation to parties or electoral funds spent on electoral companies. In recent times, we have all seen what kind of discussion Ukrainian society is involved in on the occasion of the so-called constitutional reform. The more professionals engage in this reform rather than the so-called public debate, the more the reform is about real political reform. Which has many subjective and objective reasons for its further implementation in Ukraine. The previous discussion that has taken place in this room today has been very much back to the role of political parties in this reform, and I personally believe that due to political reform, due to the increasing role of political parties, the introduction of purely proportional legislation is possible, a real, qualitative change in the reform of Ukraine's political system. In order to carry out this reform, a number of steps need to be taken first by strengthening the role of political parties. First. This is usually a new electoral law. The other one. This is to focus on the responsibilities and rights of the political party that have found support in the electorate, the formation of government, the formation of an effective majority, and the formation of state policy. And the third is the incorporation, I emphasize, not the regulation, but the incorporation of the political finance system. This applies to both the financing of political parties and the financing of electoral companies. This third, but not the last, and extremely important pillar of a democratic, effective and responsible political party system has, to our conviction, also to include budgetary financing for political parties. There are many explanations and reasons for this. First of all, the state funding of political parties will help liberate political parties from the pressure of the finances of oligarchy origin. The parties cannot express the narrow interests of financial and industrial groups and regions. As an expression of the interests of the broad social strata of society, the parties have to foresee internal democracy and the inability of shadow funding, not to mention statutory, not to mention parliamentary activity. This is addressed in the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 22 May 2001, particularly the political parties, to receive funding from the State budget to prevent the establishment of dependence on private donors and guarantee equality of opportunity for all political parties. State funding should, on the one hand, be determined in proportion to the political support that the party has, taking into account objective criteria such as the number of votes cast or seats won in Parliament and, on the other hand, allowing new parties to appear in the political arena under fair conditions to compete with more stable parties. Secondly, this is the transparency of policy financing. We've talked about this a lot, and we're going to talk a lot more. I think it's one of those stumbling blocks that our young democracy might stumble upon. And by taking power in fact in bureaucracy, we're going to take over the new oligarchic business nomenclature. And so at least to make this process transparent, it's necessary to do it the easiest way if it's going to be done from the State budget and it's going to be controlled by the state. In our law this should be done by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the basis of data from the Central Election Commission. We are proposing to set the amount of funds that will be allocated annually to finance the statutory activities of political parties at the level of one hundred percent of the minimum wage multiplied by the total number of citizens of Ukraine included in the voter list in the last election of national MPs. As a step towards more transparent funding for electoral campaigns, we also consider offering compensation to political parties and party blocs that have gone to parliament, spending on companies within the set maximum size of the electoral fund and reporting on the costs of the electoral fund. With regard to this aspect of State funding for political parties, the rules on the financing of political parties adopted by the Venice Commission in March 2001 set out in particular: State funding should be provided for all parties represented in Parliament; the State should promote the policy of transparency of political parties receiving state funding. These documents cited by the Council of Europe show the right direction if we go to state funding for the political parties that almost all countries of Europe have gone to today. The latter included even conservative changes in their regulation, such as the British and Russian Federation. State funding has already been implemented in these countries. We continue to work on the bill. We are very grateful to the National Deputies for their suggestions and comments, and we are grateful to the Committee on Legal Policy, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. Their comments were already the basis for further improvement of the bill. Thank you very much, and I look forward to supporting the session room, the national deputies, the factions, the political parties and the blocs on the day of the vote. Thank you very much, too, for the legislative initiatives that helped to develop this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u89	Thank you. Please sit down, Yuri Alexiyovich. Alexander Alexanderus Moroz of the Committee on Legal Policy has the floor for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u90	Alexander Moroz, Committee on Legal Policy, Socialist Party of Ukraine At our committee meeting on this subject, we had a very heated discussion, but we finally made a unanimous practical decision to support this draft amendment to the Political Parties Act, taking into account the agreement and the intention to financially support the political party State. And I'll tell you why the discussion was so intense. Because we have a tradition of accepting parties in society as something that lives in itself and has no connection with the state-building process, with the construction of the state. Generally, such perceptions were formed in Soviet times. And indeed, at the time, the Communist Party was one of the tools of government, in fact, the most important organ of government, and it promoted such a line, and it was naturally perceived and recorded in people's minds. But let's remember. In recent years or during so-called reconstructions, when, instead of the "April wind" was pulled by stretches in Ukraine, Mikhailo Sergiyovich Gorbachev introduced some innovations against which party activists were taking part, in particular, I appealed to the central committee on the non-acceptance of a sharp increase in wages to the workers of the apparatus. This was done at the same time as blocking the operation of party committees. And then the team went, "She's learning to make money in places. You rent a wedding ride there and everything else, make sure you get your own money." How could the ruling party at the time, even in the Constitution, be able to provide for itself as a state institution? I think it was completely wrong, which, in principle, turned out to be the result and work of the party itself, and the perception of its society. So now we're all guided by the same stereotypes. In the meantime, the world has moved on and acted differently, otherwise acting in a way that is oriented toward the political party’s governmental subject. And if it acts on its own, not independently, but in the interests of its members and in the interests of a program in which it is declared to protect the interests of society, society should think that this party, this political force, should be independent, independent and must express the interests of this society. If that is not the case, we see what is happening in Ukraine today. Let me give you a few examples. Recall the 1999 presidential election. Is this a political campaign or not? Yeah, it's political. The fund, so-called social protection, was created by taxpayers and other efforts of the President's Administration, has accumulated a billion four hundred million dollars in its own account in order to hold today's President in high office. These are the people who went around the houses, warned that if you didn't vote, you'd lose the job that teachers, doctors and so on were collecting, and they were doing the proper advocacy work for the money that was ripped out of society by gangs. And we want a political party to work on that basis? So in addition to the previous draft of the law that we've been looking at, we have to set a limit: it shouldn't be. The parties should express the interests of society and implement their political programmes with the help of society, for the benefit of society. Then all of this will be consistent and understandable. You see how we today, even in our parliament, have MPs who are represented by those parties that are dependent, whose members depend on their financial leadership, directly from the authorities. Because we have business today, power and crime -- that's the same thing, you know. So, after yesterday's vote on changes to the Constitution, the conclusion that we're making in the Socialist Party, I'd like to focus on this by focusing the attention of our radio audiences, because depending on these dependent media parties, they make very different reports. Thus, the main motive of the positions of the Presidential majority in the Supreme Council for voting on the procedure for sending draft laws on amendments to the Constitution, at the conclusion of the Constitutional Court, was to put the President to a mandatory vote for the purpose of directing only his draft, not with the MP. Even the voting of both projects would be used by the President's change initiators to support or approve only his project. In order to ensure that a new referendum is held and that the President is personally comfortable with the change. The diagram is simple and straightforward. Like everything the President has to offer. Voting on project orientation. The other one. The finding of the Constitutional Court that it does not conflict with the Constitution. A referendum on the programmed outcome and the permanent presidency of Leonid Danilovich, all of us, our beloved President's society. Yesterday Parliament did not miss another adventure by the President. What steps he's going to take now, I'm talking to representatives of political parties who are sitting here and who should support a step towards independence, full independence from the mafia of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u91	Let's move on to the discussion. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who have been enrolled. Yuri Carmazin. I asked my esteemed colleagues to cut back, and we still have some bills that the national MPs insist on. I'd like to ask you briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u92	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The essence of political parties is to promote the political will of the people. And when I look at the media: and why are those political parties doing something, and to whom do they do something? So it's those who can't speak on television; they're doing exactly who's doing everything today so that Ukraine doesn't finally become a clan-oligaric country. And that's why the political party's activity for the state is extremely important. It is particularly important that it, and the support of this party, be financially supportive. This support must be absolutely transparent, depending on the number of votes that this party received during the last election, and that's absolutely right. I cannot say that this law is not without its flaws. Unfortunately, there are shortcomings in it, but in general, I thank you for Green's comprehensive approach to addressing these issues, even predicting that the expenditure will be monitored at the expense of the General Audit Authority, and predicting changes to this law, he predicted that he could control it once a year. At the same time, I believe that when the parties are reorganized, there is a need to draw conclusions and they also have no right to be deprived of funding. The same bill provides for the deprivation of the right to finance. So I think this law will bring us closer to Europe and civilization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u93	Boris Bespaly, faction of our Ukraine. Please. Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u94	Boris Bespalij, Ukrainian People’s Party, city of Kiev Dear colleagues, I don't think you need to cheat anyone, you can't fool people anyway. And there's money everywhere where there are structures. Where there is no white legal register, there is a black box, or green box. The budget should be funded, but who? In my opinion, really, it's perfectly logical to finance from the State budget of Ukraine those and only those political parties whose representatives went to Parliament. Why? In this case, these political parties are already part of the power; they are part of the power, not just the voluntary unification of citizens. It is also logical to finance them in proportion to the support received in society. And to that end, it is appropriate to move on to a proportional electoral system based on electoral lists that are much less susceptible to peer pressure. Who should not be financed? Of course, there is no need to finance or finance those who have not received the support of the electorate and have not received as many people as they have formally listed. I think it's supposed to be the same thing as funding and party centers at the local elections, only at the expense of the local budget. So this party organization, which has its representatives on local councils, is also part of the government and, of course, has to be financed. The world’s experience also speaks of this. With the rest, dear colleagues, we understand perfectly that where there are no bright parties, there are dark clans filling the vacuum. And as a result, where the legal light of multiparty is open, there is a transparent public authority. Where there's a clan structure, which unfortunately today is in Ukraine, there's also mafia-clan power. Since the law in general contributes to the legalization of power, legalization of financing contributes to, indeed, transparent democratic power. Therefore, this law must be supported in the first reading, thanking its authors and developers, especially for their courage, because they dared to bring such an important but painful subject to public discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u95	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The issue of political finance is an extremely sharp, puzzling question, and it needs to be addressed. In general, I think the bill deserves support and can be adopted in the first reading. Not only can you do it, you have to do it. A few words are essentially a problem. State support is needed for those political parties supported by the electorate. This is first of all those political parties that have their factions in Parliament. It's pepper. Secondly, the possibility of sponsoring support for growing party muscle before the election is not excluded. There is a world experience: all of this is done transparently. You can help the parties that go to the elections, party supporters can do that, that is to say. And State support to ensure the operation of the party, and sponsoring support for the party to grow muscles and win elections. In Ukraine, almost all influential parties are financial and political groups. That's what's abnormal. They're financed not by the state, they're financed by the sponsors, but they're transparent, they're funded by certain people who are practically manipulating the parties, and the parties are losing their independence. The parties are making money, let's admit it, including our parliamentary parties, and by voting and lobbying bills. That's how they make money. It's not normal, we need to put this issue in a normal legislative field, provide state support, sponsoring transparent support. And finally, I'm stressing once again that in the end, the solution is to move to a party of parliamentary types, as in many countries of developed democracy. After the election, the parties are shrinking sharply, the minimum cost of the apparatus is going to go up, and just before the election, they're going up again, they're going to increase, they're going to elect MPs, and they're going back to this process of reduction. So there's a lot less spending, and once again, support needs to be transparent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u97	Taras Cranville. The "Our Ukraine" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u98	Dear Vladimir Mikolaiovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, it is a pity that there is not in the hall as required by the reduced procedure of those who oppose the bill. It would be interesting to hear their arguments, but the very fact that none of them took the floor, did not even sign up for it, and as it turned out to be not present, speaks quite eloquently. There are people who are interested in untransparent financing of parties. Entering parties into a shadow structure and actually into a shadow business system. I am convinced that this law must be passed and we must pass one rather difficult and obviously unpleasant social moment. It will usually be difficult to explain to voters why some amount of money that might go into social problems will go into the problems of party development, of party building. But the main argument remains. As a result, two very important social problems are being addressed. First, if this law is able to lead to the absolute execution of it, there is a huge dissipation and budget cuts, and there is a shadowy sphere in which large amounts of money go to support a whole range of parties that are thus given the eloquent name: oligarchy parties. This has already led to a large cost economy. And second moment. The structure of society is increasing and as a result the efficiency of the work of all elected authorities, the whole of the representative power, is increasing. Not only are the authorities higher, in the Supreme Council, but the rural authorities are directly involved. We see well enough that it's people who represent real-life, not virtual or so-called political oligarchy parties that can normally work in local authorities. I'm going to analyze it, let's say, in Lviv. My colleagues are, let's say, from the Communist Party they're analyzing this in a number of other areas where they're clearly pointing out that it's those people who came from real parties that are actually, normally, working well. They work in commissions, not just in sessions, there, they come up with some questions, and they lead to real results. The positive will be tangible, and the financial benefits will also be appreciated. There are two nuances that I would like to be warned about very briefly. The main task of this law, as we understand it, is to stop this shadowy, non-legally motivated financing of political parties. This implies a very large number of hard enough additional points that will still have to be introduced into legislation in the future. This automatically reduces the level of liberalisation of social processes that can be reversed against the same real political parties when laws are not implemented or when laws are enforced unilaterally. So in continuing the process of drafting legislation on this issue, and this is just a starting law, we're actually going to have to work out a whole series of things that, by increasing regulation, will not lead to the elimination of liberalisation, so that we don't reverse everything. But clearly, this law as a starting point is to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u99	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u100	Very short. The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. I'm literally two words after this bill. He must be supported with certainty. But I want to make two remarks for the transcript. First, I agree with the need to support those political parties that did not break the four - percent barrier but raised 3 percent. But nevertheless, you have to make a warning that these parties continue to finance, that's understandable, but what Carmazin was talking about, he meant a little bit different. When the faction in the political party parliament disappears, the financing of this political party ceases. That's not true. And I think this has to be corrected, because the political party continues to exist. And the fact that the faction ceased to exist can be a union, a trivial formation of a block, and so forth. I want this to be in the transcript, and I want this to be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u101	Thank you. I'll ask the Justice Minister to express the government's point of view on the bill that we're considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u102	The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine did not consider this bill. And I can express the view of the Minister of Justice, which is that I support the concept of this draft law, and I want to say that when it needs to be implemented into specific laws of the law, we need to remember that there is a budget code in Ukraine, that there are other laws in Ukraine. And standard design technology is a necessary element for the law then to be used for everyday use, and the conceptual approach is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, we will conclude our consideration of the draft of this law. I'd just like to add, obviously, that we should take. And I'm coming out not so much of a political motive here, not only of the need to structure and strengthen the role of political parties, but also of the position that we'll obviously need to settle the issue of the Supreme Council being reimbursed for the costs it spends essentially today on the hidden financing of political parties. I mean, first of all, it's funding a machine that handles factions and parliamentary groups, it's 90 employees, it's funding helpers, and we're going to be honest with you, in a number of cases, funding secretariat staff on committees. That's what's happening. Then we'll work more professionally, not on a party scale, I mean Parliament. A review of the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the introduction of State funding for political parties has been completed. We will make a decision on the day of the vote. We still have time, maybe we should try to get a look at the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Tax Added on Cable Guides. I'm asking for a report from the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozachenka Alexiyovich. And then Fedor Aleksyovich Jaroshenko. I'd like to ask very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u104	Thank you. I'll be very brief. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The need to adopt amendments to the Value Added Tax Act is due to the situation in Ukraine in the cable-conductor market. Today, all domestic cable factories, 27 companies with 12,000 jobs, are discriminated against by similar SND producers. Discrimination, in addition to the difference in domestic prices in these countries for energy and raw materials, is that cable-leading products of SND manufacturers are imported into Ukraine without paying VAT for living costs when they are scattered, i.e. bills. While the production of Ukrainian factories cannot be imported, for example, to Russia without the previous actual crossing of the border by living taxes on added value. Even more is the cost of Ukraine's imported cable-conductor products, the pressure on the market of the non-returnable VAT, which in effect only half of the VAT is paid by the importer when using the relevant schemes, I mean the cost. As a result, the policy of supporting and protecting a domestic producer aims to eliminate discrimination against businesses. The import sector of Ukraine is proposed to adopt the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Value Added Tax. The project proposes to complement the list of goods not covered by article 11, paragraph 1.5, of the Added Cost Tax Act on the release, circulation and repayment of bills, which are subject to tax on imports of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine, with goods under group code 74, 76. [[It's just a group of leadership products.]] I will add that the implementation of the bill, in addition to protecting the domestic producer, will also lead to additional revenue to the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u105	Thank you, Alexeiovich. I'm requesting a microphone from the Secretary of State of Finance, Jaroshenko Fedor Alexiyovich. We actually have two projects coming up. What difference does it make?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u106	I'll tell you, it doesn't matter. The profile committee supported the project as a whole and proposed it, because in fact it's technical trailers that are different from the government's, to adopt the MP's law, then the government's sense is lost, because it's actually one-on-one, identical.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u107	Then I have a perfectly logical question. Your bill was introduced and registered on 9.04?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u108	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u109	Does the government essentially make the same bill on May 12th?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u110	That's not for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u111	I'm here to see the Secretary of State, not you. Please have a seat. _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished voters! Indeed, laws were developed independently. And the essence of the law is what was said. They're identical. But we technically worked on this bill. And please, the position of the government is completely consistent with the bill proposed by Kozachenko. So the request, our position, is to approve it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I thought Vasil Petrovich was gone for a long time. Please, Vasil Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u113	The Financial and Banking Committee supported the bill. This bill works for the budget, works for our producer. There is therefore a proposal to adopt it on first and second reading. Because, in fact, if we agree with the concept, both the author and the Government supported it, i.e. it coincided, so it remains accepted on first and second reading. Because there's nothing to add to it on second reading. He's cleaning up and everything. The Committee therefore proposes, when we vote, to adopt it in the first, second reading, as a whole, and to send it to the President for signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u114	Thank you. Let's move on to the discussion. Carmazin and School signed up. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u115	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I fully share the concern of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin when he says that two equal bills -- April 9th -- are being introduced by Kozachenko, May 12th is being introduced by the government. What's that for? How much paper to spend. And why do state husbands sit?Oh, my God! They're exactly the same bills. I don't want to say that it's plagiarism, or it's a coincidence, but there shouldn't be such a coincidence. I'm, for example, indignant about this, and I'm indignant at the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, specifically where the performers, Chechtov and Anufreyev, I want to say that they are against the development of the domestic product. And it's very simple -- we're canceling the possibility of using the import of goods that come here, this cable, the suspension of the tax on added value by means of promissory notes. And all in all, that's all the advantage we're going to give to our native producers. Because importers have to pay right away, so any country protects its own. Where has it been published so that we do not protect our own? So I am in favour of adopting this law in the first and second readings. I believe that this was a very correct proposal from the committee made by National MP Tsushko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u116	Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u117	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. I would like to point out, first of all, that bills that support a domestic producer are to be adopted unanimously and unanimously in the Supreme Council. Because the Ukrainian manufacturer protects himself weakly, lamely, and incoherently. And if there's any lobbying laws going on, then. And they are conducted through Parliament, and very often under the protection of a domestic manufacturer, there is a simple lobbying of individual enterprises. So in this situation, it's a clean, quality short bill, which is very good, proper, confirms my constant observation that MPs are preparing more quality laws than the Cabinet of Ministers. Better ones, faster prepared, in time. And here, after a while, the Cabinet of Ministers, after reading the MP's bill, decides to propose its own. I can tell you that there was a machine, a machine that worked, a machine that was running, and this one, you have to regulate this car, you have to keep lubricating it and making sure that it doesn't fail, like it did this time. That's why I'm calling for support in the first and second readings because it's short, it's quality and it allows domestic producers of cable wire production to work normally in the internal Ukrainian market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u118	Thank you. A duck, please, a microphone. The faction of our Ukraine. No, it's the microphone of the Kachura People's Deputy. I think you'll make it to the rostrum and you'll be able to make your warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u119	Given the very limited time, honourable deputies, I have a request for you. There are several more bills, but there is one that applies to specific people. That is, an unregulated norm affects the interests of specific people. So if, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if there is no objection to the MPs, we should consider a bill called the amendment to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, and to consider it today, taking into account a very short period of time. I would very much ask the national deputies to support this. This applies to the fate of specific people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! One minute, dear fellows. One minute, I didn't give you my word. Just a minute. Dear colleagues, if that's how you can arrange it. If there's no objection, one minute, from the MPs whose bills are to be considered now, if there's no objection on the part of the deputies who signed up for "different" and we've got forty people's deputies, then we can look at this project. With this project, we need one, two, three, four, five, five, five, five, and then a discussion. We just can't physically catch up with him. We need half an hour at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u121	Let's do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u122	I ask the consent of the Supreme Council. If the Supreme Council. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u123	Turn it on, please. Julia Timoshenko's block. Vladimir Mikhailovich, the law is really important. Let's be honest with you. We'll work things out here. Let's be honest, we'll deal with you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's be honest with you to pick the day next Tuesday, and everyone will. But it's absolutely fair that it's on the coordination board and it's on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u124	Dear National Deputies! We're not in the market here. On the Conciliation Board, I'm going to bring you to your knowledge that there's a proposal to consider this project. And the decision of the Conciliation Council, we will then consider it. Well, don't make me uncomfortable. Well, if there was a will now, there's a denial. I don't deny it, but there's a denial.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u125	Well, give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u126	Yes, 13 hours. Let's move on to the "Variance." Yuri Carmazin. On the board, please, who signed up for the Miscellaneous. Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine, to prepare Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u127	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I have repeatedly raised questions about the dispossessing of our nation’s forest resources. I am also now addressing officials, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, where no one can be appointed, I am addressing Prime Minister Janukovich of Ukraine and directly Leonid Danilovich Kuchma! Leonide Danilovich! On the GUAM of several presidents, you two came like that song -- me and my Masha. So we probably have to go back to our problems, to our problems, because in a situation of economic decline, total unemployment, its poverty, the Carpathian Forest Unions are developing a cable project for Ukraine called Carpathian Land. According to this project, the Austrian firm is leased for a long term lease of 200,000 years. Ha Carpathian forest along with all the infrastructure -- labor force and the right to cut out the forest. The project envisions the complete closure of the Austrian forest user’s territory and the 100% absolute management of the entire farming process over 25 years. In doing so, the Austrian firm is quoted as saying, "..the right to choose the necessary technology for the firm's judgment, the right to unimpeded movement of all forest roads, the right to free disposal of all produced products." And this is at a time when our fellow countrymen, the electorate deprived of their jobs, suffer from poverty and hardships, are forced to go abroad in search of a better destiny. How can our nation allow the basic forest resource — wood — to go abroad? Why do Austrians not want to cut the forest in their own home? By the way, the percentage of forests in Austria is much higher than in Ukraine, but they keep their natural resources! The forest is followed by Ukrainians, using the unscrupulousness, sales, and bribery that prevails in this area. The Austrian government was not interested in the Hersonian deserts and the lower plains. In their project, Austrians plan to operate exclusively in the area of the relict forests of Carpathians, almost the only place in Europe where the pristine nature is preserved. What else are Carpathians attracted to? With cheap labor, the ability to adapt to outdated technology, to fully manage the Ukrainian forest, and to be completely free in their actions. Because the project excludes the use of forest resources by the Ukrainian side. The issue of the inadmissibility of the project was repeatedly raised in the Ukrainian media. But the State Forestry Committee, and the head of Kolisnichenko, and the local forest leaders both hand in hand for the project. Well, of course, could the CEO of Lvivlis Daneko give up such an easy prey?Oh, my God! In his interview, he claims that the project will make considerable profits. And I claim that such people harm the future state and do not even fear the Lord. The Carpathian Land Project is an unprecedented violation of Ukrainian legislation, its Constitution, the rights of our citizens to the natural resources of the state in which they live. Implementation will cause the unemployment of our workers. Let's think about our children's future, because they have to live after that. And I ask you to correct what I have said, to the Attorney General's Office, to the Security Service, to the government and to the President to take immediate action to stop the destruction of the forests.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u128	The miller, Mikola Eutyhiyevich, will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u129	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, as you know, there was an acute socio-political crisis in Kirovgrad that paralyzed the city's viability. All the troubles have arisen as a result of a confrontation between the city's head, Mikola Chigirin, and the faction of "Trudova Ukraine", which has failed to ensure victory in the election of its candidate. Since then, she has set herself a goal: to move the legitimately elected Chigrin out of the position of head of the city so that it will not be scratched by any means. With the main weapon, they broke down the city council’s sessions. Twelve sessions were cancelled. As a result, the city’s budget, which was to be adopted in January, has not been approved until today. The lack of adoption of the budget has led to the total impoverishment of the entire city’s infrastructure, the lack of repairs to the objects of activity, roads, schools, and the city’s preparation for the winter. These actions have cost the city more than 10 million dollars. Teachers don't get paid, they don't get paid, they don't get paid, they don't get paid, they don't get paid, they don't get paid. Mishquikonom has been deprived of the ability to provide medical assistance to veterans and all the elderly. The population waited patiently and hoped for a better six months. But patience came to an end. Desperate representatives of budgetary organizations, pensioners, and veterans began mass protests and nursing sessions with budget requirements. The apogee of this struggle took place on June 9. After learning that the workers had refused to put the budget into order again, the participants entered the sitting room, closed all the exits, and demanded the adoption of the budget. People went to extremes. The mass picket was repeated again on June 25. It is a matter of serious concern that the opposition and opposition of workers to virtually every community of the city are well - known to the Tihypka - head party of the Labour Ukraine, Yanukovich - Prime Minister of Ukraine, who visited the city not so long ago. He knows what is being done in Kyrovograd and the President, who was repeatedly approached by the city’s inhabitants. The Kirogradans well understand the company that is being developed under the leadership of "Trug Ukraine" and other oligarchic groups as such, which leads to the artificial genocide of the population of a separate city as the destruction of the socio-political base of the state. All of this is happening in front of the head of the government and the President of Ukraine. You do not care how the city and its people perish. The city’s crisis is the result of the opposition of a party of oligarchs under your control. Why do you not respond to destructive limits? Are you really interested in the destructive activities of those parties that undermine the foundation of your power? Mr. President, if you still have a sense of responsibility to the people, the people of the city are asking for your immediate intervention in the situation in place, to help the city’s head carry out their duties, for the patience of the people has come to an end. And as a result, social and political shocks are possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u130	Yuri Solomatin, get ready for Michael Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u131	Yuri Solomatin, a Communist faction, the city of Kiev, and the region of Kiev Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, at the commission of the Kiev City and District Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine, I have to inform you that the political organizations in question have decided on Wednesday, July 9, in Kiev, to take care of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the increase in prices for essential items, especially food products. At nine o'clock, 45 minutes, everyone who is not indifferent and who stands up to defend their constitutional rights as a Ukrainian citizen is to come to the Arsenal Metro Station, to the Arsenal Metro Station, and continue to pass together in columns up to 10 o'clock to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Right here in front of the walls of the Supreme Council, to present your demands and suggestions to the main legislative body of our state, and at 11 o'clock in front of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the street of Gruszewski. So I call upon all residents of Kiev and Kiev, first of all, the areas that are in the nearest location from Kiev, and from which electricity can be delivered by buses, to the city of Kiev, to respond to these offers and at 9 o'clock at 45 minutes at the Arsenal train station. This will be what it is, the exercise of public duty and the exercise of the constitutional rights of a Ukrainian citizen. Everyone has the right to use that. That's what the Constitution says. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u132	The word is given to Melnik. Next Costinjuk. Please, Mikolo Eutychyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u133	Mikola Melnik, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnichtina Dear Chief! Deputies! In this room and with its borders from the memorable February meeting of the President of the State of Kuchma, Prime Minister of Ukraine Yanukovic, we are conducting an empty conversation with Ukraine with little breaks about the catastrophic situation in the agricultural complex of Ukraine. It is facing adverse weather conditions, the failed reforms in the countryside that have led to the collapse of this leading economic sector of the state. Who does not speak or criticize or promise support to the village. In the meantime, the village gradually sneezes, fades. This long barren speechless village has not been compensated for its natural losses and failed reforms, nor for its bracelets. The 500 million bracelets that Yanukovic promised hit arable land on the way to the agro - industrial enterprises. 500 million promised is a pit for such a large agro-industrial complex in our Ukraine. To those benefactors who think of saving the village from themselves for now, I'm going to schematicize the figures. Ukraine sowed within 8 million acres [8 million ha] of winter. Five million of them died. For each hectare, the farmer spent a thousand dollars. Five million deaths are multiplied by a thousand bracelets — equivalent to five billion dollars! 500 million are just crumbs, 100 bracelets per hectare, which the village has not seen and will probably never see for a simple reason. The core of corruption in the state is the President and his immediate environment. The promised interest rate reduction on the loan is frozen. Or they will receive only customers who are miraculously able to borrow new loans. Everyone, from the President to the Head of the National Bank, knows that all banks, without exception, make an additional 5-7 percent deal with the customer to develop their banks. From here the village receives not less than 18 percent, but all 25 percent. At the same time, government officials warn, the loan for compensation will be granted only to those farms that will miraculously arrange for some deranged banker of 18 percent. High guild cynicism! There will be no compensation for the village. Today, all of a sudden, MPs, even most of whom are hostile to the peasants, are impaled: The threat to the food security of the state! I'm calling the numbers. That is from two to five million tons of grain that they are willing to take to Ukraine! Is this not a continuation of last year’s destructive policy that led the village to an economic catastrophe? Agrarianism is no longer the time to believe liars who hold public office. A corrupt official is a criminal, a Kuchma environment, and all millionaire officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u134	The word is given to Bogdan Kostinyuk. The next cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u135	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The renewal and progressive, progressive development of any society, especially what is being formed, depends in many ways on how society and state institutions treat young people, contribute to their full introduction into their own lives. Hence, the problem of young people today must be considered not only in the present but also in the future, for society continues because of young people. Can a person today claim, a young person, that he daily cares about himself in all the institutions of the State? No, of course not. The present young generation has, unfortunately, been formed, not in the conditions of a rich democratic state, but in the conditions of moral decay, corruption and bribery, the political assassinations of the best representatives of the Ukrainian elite. Socio-economic conditions and mass unemployment have forced over 7 million of our citizens, mostly young people, to go abroad looking for livelihoods. Children who are employed are raised without parents, and families are broken up. In addition, a large part of Ukrainian citizens are of the will of employers. Unlawful in her own country. And even though it looks like it's all wild, no one's making a special secret of it anymore. A very small share is government procurement in higher education institutions of the State, and the fees for education are too high. In fact, only the children of materially provided parents are taught in colleges. Rural youth make up the smallest percentage of the population, living conditions in the village have become so unattractive that young people take the first opportunity to stay in cities, industrial centers or to go abroad. Very bad is the material and technical provision of rural schools, which has a negative impact on the level of student knowledge. Traditionally, I emphasize, the traditional Ukrainian family has always brought up in the younger generation the work force, honesty, orderliness, the negative attitude toward excessive spending, and so forth. Today, I would say a city family is operating on very different values — the ability to establish the necessary business connections, the closeness to distribution of resources, travel abroad, and so forth. In our criminal-mafias market, it's essentially impossible to find a place without protection. June 29 was a youth’s day in Ukraine. There were mass shows called "Youth is our future" and holiday salutations. And the next day, things are going to be the same as they were. Youth policy is now under the supervision of the current head of President Viktor Medvedchuk’s Administration, who is on the verge of extinction. I believe that the problems of the young generation are a matter of Ukrainian national security. And in the context of national security, I would like to consider listening to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on young people's problems, in order to hold parliamentary hearings, in the context of Ukraine's national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u136	Stepan Cloud. The next one is Storm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u137	The cloud, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Respectable compatriots! Today, the food problem has darkened all problems in Ukraine, and it has pushed them aside. And it was this problem that showed all the corruption and banditry of today’s Kuchma regime, which is the result of its activities. Instead of solving these urgent problems that are not shrinking, they are increasing. The Kuchma regime has embarked on a major political adventure and, under the accompaniment of the so-called political reform, is trying to legitimize and deepen the criminal mafia regime of Ukraine led by Kuchma through the revision of the current constitution. This happens at every turn. And the problems that exist today in Ukraine are not the result of the imperfections of the Constitution, but rather the failure to comply with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and, above all, President Kuchma. For example, I want to tell you one point where the judicial branch of power is being destroyed, which is not yet completely dissolved and is not fully placed in the service of the regime, unlike other power structures, which, instead of protecting citizens' rights and interests, are actually working to serve and protect today's regime. For example, a situation in the High Council of Justice that is particularly important in the formation of a judicial branch of power. and the impact on the climate in this branch of power. As a result, the Higher Council of Justice is working outside the legal field, as it is headed by a former filmmaker, now the national deputy Kiwalov, who is illegally head of the High Council of Justice, and all its decisions are illegal. And what does she do? We've seen judges being dealt with, and we've done the same thing with the deputy chief of the Kharkiv District Court of Appeal, Mr. Borodini, who was illegally released as a result not only of his illegal leadership of the Kiwalov High Council of Justice, but also of the Supreme Council of Justice overstepping its powers. Likewise, I would like to deal with Judge Vasilenko, who dared to file a criminal case against Kuchma, and the High Council of Justice has also filed an illegal application for his dismissal from office as judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal. So I urge all of you, honourable fellow citizens, to take part in the July 9 campaign under the slogan "No increase in food prices! Get your hands off the Constitution!"..
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u138	Yeah, there's no Shurma, I can't see. Next Yuri Shirko. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u139	Yuri Shirko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party, town of Raven. On July 11, 2003, the Presidents of Poland and Ukraine planned a joint event to commemorate the victims of the Polish-Ukrainian conflict during World War II. In preparation for the sixties of tragic events on Volina, Ukrainian scientists have for the first time seriously raised the historical layers of the Ukrainian-Polish resistance The 20th century. Considering the conflict between the Ukrainians and the Poles, not only in the area of Volinsky but also in the area of Volinsky. The Dutch, the Nasty, Scientific conferences held with the participation of Ukrainian and Polish historians, the study of archival materials, the examination of witnesses have shown that the international opposition of Ukrainians and Poles has deeper roots, greater causes, other proportions of human losses than were accepted by the official Ukrainian authorities from the Polish side, particularly the heroized Polish AK, which acted as an army occupying ethnic Ukrainian lands. And on account of 10,000 innocently murdered Ukrainians. In this context, the role of the Ukrainian rebel army, which has not yet been recognized by the independent Ukrainian State as a belligerent in World War II, needs to be classified as a legitimate and fair national-liberal struggle on its land against all the invaders. This is also required in the approved decision of the Wallin District Council and supported by the Ravenska and Ternopil district councils to address the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This document refers to the inadmissibility of the planned massive actions in the Volin area on 11 July 2003 to honor victims among the Polish population with the participation of the official delegations of Ukraine and Poland. It remains a mystery that the formations of the joint statement will be recorded by Leonid Kuchma and Alexander Kwasniewski. Is it really the equivalent of a two-sided desire for mutual forgiveness and reconciliation between the two neighboring nations that have passed the difficult historic path in their relations, or is it a unilateral apology to Poland? The latter would be a disgrace to the Ukrainian people. Anyone who shed his blood for freedom and independence is worthy of the glory of the hero of Ukraine. The statements made by the presidents of Ukraine and Poland at the meeting in Pavlovec on Volin, if any, should be the beginning of truly friendly, good-neighbourly relations between the two European peoples and states. Recognizing the importance for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people of the veiled mystery of the meeting in Pavlovka of the Ivanichov region on the Wall of the Presidents of Ukraine and Poland, we invite you to take part in the events of 11 July 2003 and to witness an important historical event -- the mutual forgiveness and reconciliation of the two neighbouring nations -- or the defender of the dignity of the Ukrainian people, as well as a rally in the city of Lutsk, which will take place at the same time at 18 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u140	Andrew Schlell. Next Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u141	Thank you. School Andrew, Julia Timoshenko’s faction, Ukrainian National Assembly Well, I'd like to use this time to say hello. Many devoted themselves to the topics, many of our performances dedicated themselves to the work, the entire parliamentary commission of inquiry for the murder of journalist Gongadze. And I would like to welcome his mother, Mrs. Lesu Gongadze, to his birthday and hopefully to the better part of the Supreme Council. She was 60 years old on July 2, this year. This is the man who bravely endured the abuse of himself, the murder of his son. And I think she's worth it to be greeted with this day. And now I'd like to move on to the subject. First of all, I would like to point out that we are getting less and less attention to the situation in the regions. There was now a speech by the Prime Minister from this rostrum, who told us that some criminal cases are being committed against those who are hiding grain, some have committed crimes there, and that there is now a difficult problem with the provision of grain and the supply of flour according to the bread-care industry. So we don't know who, like, I feel that the prodigies, as they were in 1917, will go to the area, the representatives of the tax inspection will beat the bread out of the food, the last grain out of the food, because I never heard who did it. Nobody told me that and nobody informed me, because we didn't see the Attorney General from this rostrum. I hope next week he'll be allowed to come here, as he's been accused of anything that can only be blamed by an official of that level. In addition, I wanted him to give me an answer to where the 3 million bracelets were distributed by the Supreme Council, voting in favour of his own decision to allocate 3 million dollars to the victims of the disaster in the Lviv region. This is particularly of interest to the electorate of my district, because in the three districts of my district, 70,000 were allocated to one area, 7-, 140,000 were allocated to the other. And where did the rest of the money actually go, 3 million dollars? Where did they come from, from which pocket are they translated? I would like this part of my speech to be formulated as a parliamentary request for 3 million bracelets directed by the Supreme Council to overcome the natural disaster that took place in Lviv in the middle of the spring of this year. I also wanted to emphasize something else. Here, once before, there was a problem with the absence of clean buildings in the largest area of Ukraine without cleaning facilities, in the Sambori area. This was about the Volin tragedy with the Poles, and I'm completely in solidarity with this topic. But let us not forget that there is a place in the Sambir that dumps all its waste in the Vistula River Basin. And this is all left to our state's conscience and the lack of basic funding for Sambour. I hope that this will also be formulated as a parliamentary request. This will be my fifth request for the lack of financing for the construction of cleaning facilities in Sumbir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u142	Vladimir Leschenko, next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u143	Vladimir Leshchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Chernigovščina, deputy association "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia". Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. From the brief media reports in the hands of the bourgeois authorities or the bourgeoisie itself, you learned that on June 29, this year, on Youth Day, at the border of the three Slavic states of Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia, there was an international youth festival near the village of Sinykovka, in the region of Chernigiv. As a participant, I want to inform more about this grand campaign of the brotherhood of our peoples, which is of interest to them. First of all, the tradition of holding youth festivals in this sacred place was initiated exactly 30 years ago. The festivals are always held at the official level, regardless of the political situation, the attitude of the senior management of the republics. This is where the leaders of the Chernigian, Gomel, and Bránsk regions, representatives of parliaments and governments of the three nations, come. Youths arrange tent towns, negotiations, contracts, sports competitions, concerts, political discussions, and national parties, and so forth. There are no borders in these days, without obstacles, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Russians, and representatives of other nationalities face each other. Foreigners, tax collectors, law enforcement officials, and others communicate with one another in a friendly and lively manner. No one forcefully chases people here, but they walk, ride bicycles, cars, buses, and small, and old, close and far tens of thousands. This year, it is estimated that some 30,000 people were present at the festivals of the Slavonic peoples, and in fact more. Although official delegations from three nations had only 20 members. When you are in the midst of this very important human action, you forget about today’s troubles, the political ambitions of the leaders of the nations, their repetitive views somewhere in the West or the ocean, and you deeply believe that the brotherhood of the three independent nations must be made, not by the presidents, but by the nations. And our alliance begins with Sinykovka. In part, I will point out that the parliaments of Belarus and Russia pay considerable attention to international youth festivals. Deputies are necessarily members of official delegations. Only our Supreme Council has yet to put them on the proper level of government. Therefore, six Ukrainian national deputies, members of the "For the Union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia", took part in this year's festival informally, although they met with members of the Belarusian and Russian Zubr. Last year the festival hosted Russia, this Russia, the next Ukraine. So let us join in the preparation of Hennady Andriyovich and his distinguished fellow national deputies, and let us be sure to take part in his preparation. By doing so, we will contribute to the creation of a single economic space and in the subsequent brotherhood of three equally independent Slovenian states. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u144	Vladimir Yavorowski. Next Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u145	Vladimir Yavorowski, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. I would like to join Andrew School’s words and indeed welcome this troubled mother of Georgia Gongadze, who has been unable to carry out her Christian obligation to bury her child for so many years. And I'm calling on the Lviv city authority, to Mr. Bunjak with a big request, and I think from all the conscientious deputies, we have a lot of them, so let's see, in the end, housing for this woman. She deserved it. I'm sure Mr. Bunjak will. I went up to this rostrum to carry out the commission of Victor Yushchenk's Block, "Our Ukraine," and to bring to our voters the position of the "Our Ukraine" Block on the events that are now taking place. To be honest, it seems to me that if there are thinking people in our power and there, in the Bank, and there are thinking people outside Banking, and they probably are, then perhaps today they should recognize what they are, about their rule of Ukraine history will write as a gray, free absolutely period that has led to the collapse of our nation. If that's what this is about, let's say people hear it. In fact, our power today has lost not only its conscience but virtually all the important controls over the economy, over the nation's agriculture, over the army, over everything. She's busy today with one thing: self-preservation. Perhaps there is no more immoral authority anywhere in Europe! Look, our neighbors are moving forward at this time! How it builds the potential for economic, political, authority of its Poles, Czechs, Slovaks! The only thing that falls on our heads is, "Damn, shame, shame and another shame." We were dragged into a terrible, wild adventure with a lack of bread in Ukraine. It could only be in 33 years when Joseph Jugashvili involved our nation, and in 47 years where there were certain and postwar situations. What reasons there are today!? And this is an affair that power has committed! And the representatives of this power are sitting here in this room! For nothing, bread has been brought abroad, for nothing. Now they have sold this bread, sold it at world prices, and sold it to us! So twice, twice, actually, our people have dropped out of it. And at that point, instead of thinking about it yesterday, instead of adopting these bills, they postponed everything. The most important thing is to save Leonid Danilovich! The most important thing for them to sit still is to be guided by us. Who do you think you're running, good people? Look what's going on with this country. We don't have a nation leader today! Today, only the authority with the trust of the nation can resist reform. And today, a meager confidence in the President and this constitutional so-called reform! I say again, it's all for one reason -- that Leonid Danilovich will rule Ukraine for another three or four years. If that happens, believe me, in two years, no one will rule. That's why we stood, standing with the opposition to prevent these pseudo-reforms from being able to maintain Leonid Kuchma's authoritarian regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u146	John Boki, the next one is the workman.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! There was a comedy at the end of the meeting yesterday, and then it was published on the first channel of Ukrainian television, where the opposition was put on the wall, as if this opposition had ruined the work of the Supreme Council. On the contrary, it was the majority of yesterday because she wanted Leonid Danilovich Kuchma to transfer the draft of his constitutional reform to the Constitutional Court to continue his mandate and bless him for the third term. It's all very funny. That's most of it showed itself, I'm sorry, by this fairy tale fool who was handed a snitch to beat his own windows. Well actually, actually, if most of us were more represented here, here I see only two representatives of the majority, actually I think it's time for you to stop. To deal with a character like Kuchma. You all understand that Kuchma is a national disgrace to the Ukrainian people, and a shame for all eternity. And you're grabbing at him. It's like a rescue. That's ridiculous! That's disgusting! And that's just rude, I'm sorry. And you think you're a politician, I'm sorry. And the fact that Leonid Danilovich Kuchma wants to rule is another fact. The Department of Interior of Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs exhibited some very interesting examples of very interesting technology. These are machines designed by the docking designers on the basis of CROSS to install water cannons there. This is so that during peaceful demonstrations, people will be restaffed with water. From these water cannons, water will knock people down 50 meters [50 m]. And you know, when the President gives the team a command on these things, it means he's afraid of the people, he's afraid of himself. Staffing people like the Stalin used to be in concentration camps, staffing them in peaceful demonstrations. The only way to think about it is in agony. And this agony, as we can see, lasts in our eyes. And I want to remind you, as did previous speakers of the opposition, that nine numbers we call upon all the Chinese, the representatives of the regions, to gather at the Supreme Council to express their protest and against that genocidal loave that has just begun in Ukraine, and it has been blessed by the authorities to raise money for the next President's election. They're planning, or maybe they're going to be elections. Or to keep yourself in power. So at 9:00 in the morning, we're all waiting by the walls of the Supreme Council. And let's say in the end that most of those who receive from the President, those thugs who beat their windows, and let's say to the authorities that the time has passed, let her not be ashamed, let her go from this people, for she is not worthy of this people, the great people, the people of Taras Shevchenk. And it must inevitably go. She's leaving. And it is not intimidated by the water cannons, nor by the cannons at all, nor by the changes that are taking place so disastrously. And you realize that it's all like just, well, a theater action that no longer has a name, I think at the end of the day it's time to tell this authority what it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u148	Yuri Orobec, next Taras Czarnowil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u149	Honorable MPs, distinguished voters! I took part in and watched a lot of elections, but what power and SDPU did in Mukachevo, it goes beyond anything. I'm testifying that the SDS candidate has opened up a financial pyramid. VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE "O," "O."
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u150	And he tried to give everyone 20 bucks. However, this did not help. That's why we've organized a court-martial, a court-martial to withdraw our Ukraine's candidacy, but that didn't work either. When the judge read the court's decision, the MP from SDPU(O) Schufritch began to disrupt the court's proceedings and tossed it down, after an hour and a half, he pressed the judge to change the judge's mind. Only when the Ukrainian national deputies from Kiev arrived did this disgrace end, and Deputy Shufrich fled through the back aisle. [[Laughter, applause]] That's why SDPU(o) realized that they were losing the election because they had no chance of winning, and a good sociologist indicated that their candidate was not passing. That is why it was decided at 15 hours to break the election. It was called from Kiev’s plane with representatives of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. After an anonymous call, these polling stations were replaced. We, the National MPs, came to the police station and made sure that we didn't give in to these provocations. Directly involved in these provocations was the Head of State, Head of the Department Scissor. Nina Karpachov arrived, and after all, the elections were held to the end. When it was clear that the SDPU(s) had lost. It was called SDPU(o), three hundred brothers shaved naked, with chains, bandits who knocked out the doors of polling stations, beat windows and MPs had to control election ballots so that they wouldn't be taken away, was not damaged. And we won. The SDPU(o) wants to make the election impossible now because of the court, indicating what they did, how they did it, and that the election was not recognized as real. But the O.D.U. and the oligarchs lost. Our voters are no longer buying for their stolen 20s, and we claim that Mukachevo is Stalingrad SDPU (O) of the oligarchs and their President, they will not pass. Get Kuchmu out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u151	Taras Cranville, next Mikhail Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u152	Dear Hennaday Andryovich! Dear fellow MPs! Dear Ukrainian radio listeners! Yesterday and today, media outlets force the propaganda duck on how the opposition did everything possible and impossible to prevent the adoption of a number of necessary laws for Ukraine, the adoption and approval of a number of judges, and the main opposition blocked the process of saving Ukraine from hunger yesterday. I want to say that a greater lie, a greater distortion of everything, is just hard to imagine. Yesterday we were able to stop for a while, but still stop the abuse of the Constitution, the introduction of dictatorship in Ukraine, and another step prevented those who wanted to make a very unnecessary living on the Ukrainians, the unnecessary once-in-a-lifetime use of our people, in the same villages and once-in-a-lifetime theft of more gigantic sums of money. The solutions that were offered, and all the hysteria that is taking place around the present crop and food crisis, are impressive. The main course of these events can be laid out at several points, in several steps of theft. Initially, in the past year, subscriptions were made too actively to raise what seems to be a record - size crop, resulting in the opportunity to export huge amounts of grain abroad and to sell it for a large amount of money and for the first time to earn it. After it was discovered that, in fact, the grains in Ukraine were almost at a critical point, they began to disperse the food panic. You can see the channels on which these materials go, going, constantly unfolding. It is those who own these channels, these media, today, who want to make a huge leap on food prices. It's a perfectly artificial process. Then, through the Supreme Council, there are first changes to the budget, with half a billion dollars to the agrarian branch. None of these billions of bracelets will reach the village. After that, regulations are being made that plan for further giant incursions also seem to be in the agrarian field. That money doesn't come to the village. This is the third robbery. Fourthly, allowing to enter Ukraine without duty, without taxes, without any import grain, which, among other things, earned for itself by earning for the next presidential election of Kuchma, earning his fake, as always, referendum referendum for his support of the President's initiative, and, in short, simpler and more honest: for the continuation of the President's term of office for another 2 or 3 years -- and in parallel to invade the Ukrainian village and start this looting for the following year. Let us be aware, be aware of those actions and actions, not yielding to the agitation that tries not only to deceive us but to swindle us. We won't let ourselves be fooled or let ourselves be robbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u153	Mikhailo Kosov. Next Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u154	Valentina Semenyuk is a very nice woman, and I have nothing at all. Honorable colleagues and respected radio audiences, especially TV viewers. After yesterday, I had a lot of phone calls from my fans, as it turns out that the camera also fixed me here last night, near this rostrum. So I want to explain to those who are either concerned or interested in their position. So what happened yesterday. Yesterday we were supposed to adopt, just think, the Act of Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. The rapporteurs were two -- the Justice Minister Lavrinovich and the Head of the State Building Committee. We listened to Matthew’s report. The head put his proposal, the draft for the vote. In the hall, this project received 202 votes. This was predetermined because in all the comments of the presidential structures and co-ordinators of the so - called parliamentary majority, it was said that nine tenths, imagine before the vote, they knew that nine tenths, or 90 percent, were behind the Presidential project. What's in the presidential project? On the one hand, they're bribes. That is, the bribe of the Constitutional Court, members of the Constitutional Court, in which the term of their tenure and the age of their tenure is taken down. A bribe to MPs, all of whom, starting with the deputies of the village council and ending with the Supreme Council, have an extension of another year, that is, five years. Thus, the election of deputies will take place, not in 2006, but in 2007. But at the same time, the election and the deputies and the President in one year. So if you and I are going to be chosen for this project on the last Sunday of March 2007, today's President is just on the first Sunday of December 2007 as well. This President and this authority want to continue their existence for exactly three years and one month. Can Ukraine endure that? Can the stolen Ukrainian people endure this? Because what happened in the Ukrainian grain market is not a mistake, it's a crime, it's a crime for which the authorities have to answer. They tricked the village and then robbed it. That is why they want to continue their existence for another three years and one month. That's why, dear voters and sympathizers, I was here yesterday at this rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u155	Please, Valentina Seminouk. Next Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u156	Thank you. I want to keep going. Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. I want to support the respect I have for Mikhail Vasilovich Kosiv in terms of what they wanted to continue and they want to continue their powers today through the surrender of bribes recorded, I mean, under the terms of the Constitution. At the same time, I want to say that this kind of tax, which was given in the form of draft agrarian-sector laws, is what the money was for. And today, the bread affair is an affair between the Ukrainian people and the next election. That is what our citizens of Ukraine need to explain. And what happened yesterday in the Hall about what was not supported by the proposal to refer the Presidential version of the Constitution to the Constitutional Court is the result of that struggle, either Ukraine is not going to be, or the criminality is going to rule the state. At the same time, I want to address Ukrainian citizens. Today, many and many depend on citizens. Recall 1999. After the presidential campaign. After five or eight months, there was no pay. As soon as we got onto the asphalt, the one on Krestletick, and the people on foot started walking from Zitomir, Chernigov to choose his constitutional right, and immediately there was money in the state, and they started issuing wages, pensions. When we entered the street, we showed the authorities that we would protect our constitutional rights. That is how we today need to protect our rights. In 1999, the Socialist, Communist, Fatherland and other political forces in Kiev created the Civil Committee for Constitutional Rights. We went outside, stood in front of the Cabinet of Ministers, when the question of the privatisation of Kievenergo was raised. There was no privatization. Because the public went out on the street. This was our constitutional obligation. And we saved an energy-generating company. Today we have to ask: "No increase in the price of bread! The people need bread, not Kuchma!" That's the kind of slogan we need to go out on the street today. And I'm talking to representatives of different political parties. A meeting of the Civil Committee took place yesterday. Come out on July 9 in the morning to the Supreme Council and let's say, "No!" - to this bandit government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u157	Lilia Grigorovich. Next Slatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u158	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm authorized to make a statement from the faction "Our Ukraine." On June 29, there were unprecedented elections in Mukacheve, which demonstrated the abuse of illegal activities by law enforcement authorities and their real growth with a criminal element during the election of the city's head. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that Mr. Mukachev's previous vote at the trial did not take into account the criminal acts of a trusted candidate for the post of city chief, Mr. Ernest Nusser, who, using his position of office, distributed medical kits and expenses to the nurses during the election campaign. Witness statements and evidence were ignored. When a criminal element appeared at the polling stations, the police did not intervene in the event. Yes, there was an attack on Mrs. Goodness’s STB journalist at District 12 and a police officer at the police station, Deputy Chief of the City of Mukachev U.S.A. simply disappeared, although he had a clear task of protecting an object and a national deputy responsible for the area. Such a situation has already become a routine. When transporting electoral ballots unknown on cars, they blocked the stations and refused to allow them to leave the local commission after the vote had been completed. The intervention of the national deputies alone forced the police to respond, allowing the vote to be successfully completed. On the day of the vote, there was suddenly a so - called police case for the replacement of polling stations. On June 29, at 15 p.m., electronic media reported unreliable information about the alleged fact of replacing everyone — think! - 36 districts in Mukachevo. The deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Mrs. Nina Karpachov’s ombutzman at the time were at the stations. Real information on this fact on the service line came within 45 minutes, and government officials, according to the legislation, were not warned at all. The chronology of events indicates that the media were unable to find out about this information within an hour of the official police warning. In private conversations, dozens of honest militiamen, who are conscientiously carrying out their duties under difficult conditions, testified that inadequate teams were found. The elections in Mukachev showed that they took place in the days of the Constitution, that the current authorities work in the wrong field, use law enforcement agencies and the execution of political orders, and stimulate the rise of the criminal world with power. No citizen is insured from this system, as the elections in Mukachev showed, regardless of his status. Today, this is a dangerous trend for opposition and for the common people. Tomorrow it can wait for others. In addition to the recent election in Chercas, Suma, Chernigo, and Zaporozhye, it became clear that the authorities were quick to test new technologies aimed at destroying the concept of "alternative candidate". The elections in Mukachev strongly overshadowed this threat to the Ukrainian trend. In addition, the faction of Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine" calls for the creation of a commission of inquiry into the facts that took place during the elections of the city's head in Mukachevo. Please consider our appeal official and address the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u159	Please follow the Rules, everyone please. Sergei Slabenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u160	Sergey Slabenko, Volinsk region Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! We won't waste time. For several days now, the walls of parliament have been looking at a crisis situation in Ukraine’s agprom industrial complex. In addition to the issues raised by the highest officials, the issue of real aid remained unresolved, namely, the agreed approach taken by the public authorities in the person of the tax authorities to pay the fixed tax and other taxes paid by farmers. That is: I'll give you an example. I was approached by voters and explained what the authorities are doing in places today. They say it's the Ukraine Act of 21.12.2000 "On order to pay off taxpayers' obligations to budgets and government trust funds", which provides for the cancellation of a hopeless tax debt, including fines, pennies in case circumstances arise. Power, that is, force majeure. Article 18 of this law establishes the order for the write-off of a hopeless tax debt approved by order 103 of 14.03. In 2001 By letter from the U.S.A. of 18.02 C.E. In 2002, she further explained that in cases of force majeure, the taxpayer turned to the tax authorities and asked for tax debt to be written down, confirming this fact by means of a set sample. What is in place? There's one thing in places. A taxpayer who is no longer able to keep up in the village today has suffered real damage, has help. He comes into the tax office, and they say, "So if you have a tax liability now, we'll write you down. And then you'll pay all the taxes." He says I'm going down! I'm supposed to make bread, sell it in the fall, and you're making me pay taxes again? - Yeah, that's what the team's all about, 'cause we need to fill in the budget. The budget is filled in another way. Today the heads of village councils are speaking, saying that they have become taxpayers for the added value. Think about it! The local government for renting land has become a taxpayer of value added tax, thus completing the state’s budget. And then? Then we ask, where is the money to be distributed back to the agrarian sector in the form of grants? We're twice, we're in the middle of a situation, we're robbing a village, and it's looting at the state level. I believe that, for today's day, we must first draw the attention of the authorities of the State to the unconditional observance of those laws that we have written, to the execution of those provisions of the Cabinet of Ministers that have already been approved. Therefore, I suggest that the tax authorities pay attention to my speech and give proper assessment to the activities of tax administrations on the spot and commit that, in the event of the damage suffered by the sellers under such difficult conditions, they were entitled to reduce their tax debt to the State budget. Please consider my address to the Ukrainian DPA and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u161	Please, George Manchulenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u162	George Manchulenko, 203 constituency, Cherniewec region, faction "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! We all remember how many spears were broken when the Ukrainian State Budget Act was passed for 2003. Only through a constructively balanced position of the Parliamentary Budget Committee has a fairly balanced document been adopted. You know, there's also a support proposal for 1 million. Money for capping, or what they're now called, subsidies for investment projects in each majority district. This rule is laid down in the State Budget Act for the current year. Regrettably, by this time these funds are not going to the region. On June 4, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted an appropriate decision, where 16 administrative and territorial units were approved, including the Chernobyl area, according to agreed investment, in each of the four constituencies that are in the Montenegrin region. Today, on July 4, unfortunately, the unacceptable mechanism is how these costs should be accumulated and directed to the region. The people in the places of these funds are really looking forward to, because we need to build a school, we need to gasify the village, we need to maybe repair the road, and especially the 203 constituency that I represent, where half of my district is made up of mountain areas, which are extremely affected by natural disasters, and unfortunately, to this day these costs in the Chernivian region, including 203 districts, which are actually 4 districts in the Kismensky, Visniński, and The Watchtower did not give in to these expenses. So I urge Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine to take personal control over the development of the mechanism, the accumulation and the sending of funds to the region. So financing subsidies for investment projects, because that's how July, August, when these funds are going to go to places and when they're going to be developed. In order for this not to happen, I'm just asking the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister to have it under his personal control, and that the mechanism for sending funds to the region will be operational as soon as possible. That is, for the implementation of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for the current year and the decree of June 4 of this, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Because our people are waiting for this money in place, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u163	Leonid Konstantinovich Kadenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u164	Kadenyuk, 205th District, Cherniewec Region. While in the district, I meet with people on a periodic basis, among the problems that exist, attention should be paid to the health of our population. On the average, of the 10 who are at the reception, 6-7 are patients who need treatment. In addition, many are in such a runaway state that they need immediate surgery. The expensive drugs and the lack of funds to buy them are one of the main complaints of people. We would not want to take a deep look at the causes of the almost catastrophic state of health of our population, which are largely objective, that is, those who depend both on our parliamentary activities and on the state, and on each individual individual who needs, if he does not know, to learn how to preserve his health. We're struggling with economic difficulties more or less actively by adopting appropriate laws. Sadly, though, such an important factor in national security, such as human health, seems to me to be not paying enough attention. Of course, improving the nation’s health generally takes a long time. That is why we need to make an urgent breakthrough in the resolution of this issue by taking drastic measures. It is not only the adoption of appropriate laws but also the necessary funding for their implementation. Special attention should be paid to the health of children whose primary activity is school and college. That is why I propose to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, along with the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, to review the curricula in schools and universities, taking into account international requirements, that is, simplifying them. They're more complicated than in the same United States. The textbooks should be written in a much simpler, more accessible language for faster understanding rather than in a leaky teacher’s language. In my view, in schools children need to be given basic medical knowledge, especially about the right way of life, about useful and harmful food, which is highly dependent on human health, about the risks that lead to cardiovascular and oncological diseases. With white in his soul, he watches many of our children from 10 to 12 already smoke cigarettes. And as a result of the acquisition of diseases that are sometimes written off as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Schools and universities need to reduce the psychological burden on children. So I think we need to review the necessity and relevance of exam sessions, because the exam is stress. And that's why we need to define another form of quality assurance. As I have pointed out, health depends to a large extent on the food we use. That is why the Ministry of Health, along with food specialists, will meet the right requirements, standards for food. National health care is a whole set of problems that need to be solved immediately. In three minutes, it's impossible to say anything. As a result, I propose to organize parliamentary hearings on the health of the nation with urgent measures to improve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're done with the Miscellaneous. One minute, head of the committee, please calm down. If there's no objection, please. If there's a denial, we're done. All right, that's very tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u166	I'm in Sudzólski. Respectable. Mikola Polishchuk, Victor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine. Dear Gennady Vasilovich, distinguished national deputies, the peoples of Ukraine. Democracy is not about equality, it's about creating a level playing field for life and, above all, ensuring the rights to health. An extraordinary event in the city of Sudólsk Lugansk, where the largest outbreaks of hepatitis A in Ukraine’s history, with about 600 patients, have been recorded, is a vivid demonstration of the irresponsible, indifferent attitude of the authorities toward meeting the basic household needs of our fellow countrymen as declared in articles 49 and 50 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u167	Tell me what the committee's doing about it. That's not what you're talking about. You came to me for another reason. If you have nothing to say for the committee, we're done and gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u168	Gennady Vasilovich, I'm about to tell you what the committee is doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u169	It's not different anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u170	I'll say. First of all, the event that took place in Sudólsk is a violation of sanitary standards of environmental standards, of urban construction standards. And this is primarily because the people are not supplied with drinking water. Ukraine’s supply of good drinking water is growing in Ukraine. More than 80 percent of the population of Ukraine uses open - water water to satisfy their drinking and household needs. And about 30 million people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-07-04-m0.u171	Dear Mikolo Efremovich, please finish. Turn off the microphone. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The plenary session will begin at 10 a.m. on July 8. Good-bye.
