ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u1	People's deputies are invited to take up their jobs. We'll continue our work. Please invite the national deputies to the session room. Yes, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:05:19]] Registered -436 There are 436 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform you of the results of the meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and factions. They took place both with the participation of all leaders of MP groups and factions and individual factions of the opposition, with the exception of representatives of the Communist faction and the factions of the majority. Everyone has an understanding of what needs to be done to unlock the process, there's not just a common touch point. Given this and the fact that the Musiyak People's Deputy has introduced a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the preparation of a draft Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, I will now vote to do so. In order to save the bills that have been drafted, which we have discussed, I will now put to the vote. First vote. To reread the first three bills. In order to unlock the work of the Supreme Council and continue to work. The other one. If a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is needed, which was introduced by the Musiyak People's Deputy, who is tasked by a temporary special commission to draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which was established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order, to prepare a harmonized draft of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. And then, dear fellows, I'm putting to the vote the first proposal to re-read the three bills that we've discussed. This is the bill of the People's Deputy Rudzikowski, the Bill of the People's Deputy Gavrish and the Bill of the People's Deputy of Hubski, or three bills. I think we can unlock the work of the Supreme Council by ourselves. Please vote. Vote, please, so let's unlock the Supreme Council's work. [[16:07:47]] For-93 The decision is not taken. I put to the vote a draft decree by the Ukrainian MP Musiyaki on the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies. I'll read it. To entrust a temporary special commission to draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, established under the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of December 26, 2002. Prepare a harmonized draft of the Ukrainian Law on Election of Ukrainian National Deputies for a Proportional System. In preparing the bill, take into account the draft laws introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Rudzkowski, Gavriz, Assadchev and others, as well as the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies in the course of their discussion. A temporary special commission to submit a draft bill for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by November 20, 2003. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[16:09:01]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Dear National Deputies! Now it's a combined offer. I am voting for the re-reading of the three bills with the mandate of the Interim Special Commission to draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine to finalize these bills and to introduce a coherent draft. Please vote. [[16:09:48]] For-86 The decision is not taken. So this is how I speak for the stenographer. The laws that we've been looking at, they've been rejected, we'll go back to their consideration at the next session. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 has been announced for consideration. Please, is Sergey Terjohin there? Where's Terrohin? Please report. You don't? Dear National Deputies! A draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 is being announced for consideration. Calm down, dear fellows. The Rules state that the Head of the Supreme Council may give, not necessarily give. There is a statement to announce a recess for 30 minutes, but according to the Rules, a recess may be announced. Let's finish the discussion, then we'll call it a break. Please, Peter Alexiovich. You can report from the scene. What will we discuss? There's nothing to discuss. Dear National Deputies! May I have your attention, please? Clearly, you understand these bills. Clearly, there is no need to discuss them. Right? So, your honorary colleagues, there's a vote for adoption on the basis of draft laws number 4,000-1, and draft law number 4,000 for adoption as a basis in a package. Please vote. Calm down! Please vote. [[16:12:24]] For-136 You don't want to discuss it, do you? Okay. Just a minute. I'll put it to a vote. In a package, they say it's wrong to do it. I am voting on the adoption of draft 4000-1 draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on taxation in relation to the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2004 as a basis. To the vote. Please cancel the vote. Azarov. So let's give it a chance to report. Why don't you? Please give us a chance. Give me a chance. Please, your will. First Vice Prime Minister's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u2	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished members of the people! The draft State Budget Act of Ukraine, the conclusions and proposals of the Budget Committee, taking into account the changes, have been made by the factions. It's important. Conclusions and proposals of the budget committee, taking into account changes made by factions leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u3	We're voting now, Mikola Yanovich, not the budget. We're voting 4,000-1 right now -- this is Teryochin who's reporting that project.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u4	We need backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u5	When we discuss it, there will be a word. All that's going is the vote. I'm voting for acceptance as a basis. There we agreed to consider the offer. On the basis of draft law No. 4000-1 of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on taxation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act "On Ukraine's 2004 State Budget". Please vote. [[16:15:03]] For 244 Decision taken. I'll put it to a vote. The factions, please. I'm voting for adoption on the basis of the draft law on Ukraine's 2004 State Budget. Please vote. [[16:15:59]] For 121 The decision is not taken. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u6	Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I asked you to vote on the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets, taking into account the changes made by the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u7	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a basis, i.e. in the first reading, of the draft law on the State Budget of Ukraine, taking into account the observations and proposals made by the MPs and factions. Please vote. [[16:16:53]] For 231 Decision taken. I told you what would happen. You didn't want to listen, you didn't have to. The factions, please. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2003 is being reviewed. Reporter Peter Poroshenko. Yes, Peter Alexiyovich, are you reporting this question? Report from the scene, then report from the location. Please turn on the microphone. Assadchev, please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u8	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I think that when we were looking at the law on changes in the tax system, at least he needed it. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u9	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u10	Yes, because we're going to be again as taxed to individuals. Azarov told us about 500 million, and the imbalance was 2.5 billion. I want everyone to know what happened now. Now they've voted for the introduction of VAT on drugs, now they've introduced VAT on library services, now they've introduced taxes on all actually social costs, now they've actually cancelled the zero VAT on agriculture, now they've now balanced the budget by about 2 billion grand. [[It's for the peasants to know about it.]] So I realize that you can do anything you want. I just want to remind myself. I've talked about it. Mr. Azarov is doing everything possible and impossible to destroy the Ukrainian economy. He did this when he was head of the tax administration, and he's still doing it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u11	Thank you. Peter Alexiovich, are you reporting? Please. Allow the head of the budget committee to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, the process is already under way, let's find a compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u12	Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues, let's find a better understanding. Mikola Janović, do you support this project to amend the State Budget Act 2003?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u13	First of all, on behalf of the Government, I would like to thank those MPs who supported two extremely important bills on first reading and thereby widened the budgetary process. You gave the Government the opportunity to work with you on the 2004 budget. And that's why I thank you for that. We have an important law on the agenda on which the food security of our country depends: the elimination of the value added tax on grain imports. And I ask you, Alexander Alexandrovich, as President of the Supreme Council, in your time no one has blocked the rostrum when the most important laws have been passed for the country, I ask you personally: unlock the rostrum, vote in favour of the law that repeals the import VAT on grain in Ukraine. An extremely important law. Unlock, vote - continue to block. The issue raised by Vladimir Mihajlovich is certainly an important law for the resolution of the Pension Fund. He should be voted on, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u14	Alexander Frost. Then Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Mikolo Janovich. I'm talking to Mikola Janovich Azarov. When I was the Head, you were the head of the Budget Committee, you never considered the budget in the way it is now: when did they vote, and now everyone has taken over the head: and what did they stress?Oh, my God! Well, come on, so be it. In the same way, by the way, you can vote on all the other bills you called. On the contrary, this morning we were concerned that the Zero Rate Act had been taken to about 30 places for the import of grain, and it had to be voted on from the very morning. And it was also necessary to take action a year ago when we referred to what criminal decrees and decrees and orders of Kabmin, and local administrations resorted to the adjectives that led to this condition with grain now. Today, there is no appropriate response from the government. But that's another question. You've demonstrated, you can vote, we don't interfere with the vote. Vote, accept, if you think that this is the normal work of the Supreme Council, that you can lie to people about political reform, that their rights stand here in Parliament and so forth. Work in this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u16	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u17	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies, I think it is time to separate the flies from the wrinkles, as they say. When it comes to political issues, when it comes to political interests, it's one thing. But if we're looking at a bill that deals directly with the well-being, the immediate well-being of our citizens, which is why we're here, and we're here, in any case, in the pre-election programs, we're all talking about it, I think we need to move on to a concrete, absolutely pragmatic and peaceful work. And what he is now proposing to us to adopt a government-specific bill is, I think, quite logical. I will vote for this and call on my colleagues to reject at least for a time the political interests and vote in favour of the economic bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, let's continue our work, vote for those bills, determine what the government is proposing regarding the import of grain. I'm asking you, let's vote, let's finish the draft bill that I've announced, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2003 and then we'll consider the tariff on grain. And if it's your will, then we'll finish the job. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u19	Dear colleagues! Dear Mikolo Janovich! On behalf of the faction, I'm asking you to immediately confirm the government's position that for the next year, the system of last year's value added tax system remains. If you don't confirm it, because now the law has been passed without us, the faction will not vote until the end of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u20	Please confirm the position that the interests of the agrarians will be taken into account. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u21	Dear Catherine Timothy! By procedure -- first reading -- these are the conclusions, proposals of the budget committee, and we have now voted on the plus of the shifts made by the factions leaders. On second reading, we will make the decision I have agreed with you and the decision I have taken at the meeting. We will not deviate from the agreement that has been reached. Why should we now raise that question?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u22	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u23	Dear National Deputies! Dear Catherine Timofievna! Dear Mikolo Janovich! On behalf of the Committee on Finance and Banking, I want to confirm that the new rules on value added tax proposed for agriculture will be introduced, as we agreed, as of 1 January 2005. Before we agree again with the government and our committee, there will be another year and a system that works today, this year, in connection with the crisis you know in this area. So I would like to take this into account, therefore, Catherine Timothy, you are a member of our committee and I will not be able to change this view of our committee in the process of second reading. So the request is to take an active part in the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We are in the process of reviewing the draft law amending the Ukrainian law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. You report it or you say it, we vote, so we insist on voting. The committee's proposal is to accept it as a law as a whole. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a bill of draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2003. This is document number 4175. Please vote. [[16:30:39]] For 234 The law is passed. The factions, please. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, please. It doesn't work, does it? Come on, then. Valentina Semenyuk's microphone. Tell me what you want to say from this microphone. Please, Semenyuk microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Today, you know, I took part with you and I was the head of the Budget Committee at a meeting with the education staff. A number of the National Deputies of our committee, members of our Committee of Bauer, Droguncs, Proskuratov, I am representatives of various factions, the entire committee supported, proposed amendments to article 56 of the Law on the State Budget on the Mechanism for payable for municipal services to educational institutions. I would ask that we be this bill, which, to the best of my knowledge, supported the Ministry of Finance and supported the Ministry of Fuels to include it in this law. This is what we would pay today the 39 million debts that today are in the schools, schools, more loyally, vocational schools, universities, technicians and stockpiling for 2001-2002 as a result of the government's underfunding of these educational institutions. Please be supportive. Number 4245, he's all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u26	Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to find this bill and give it to me, we will be determined. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the term of zero import duty per grain]] Please, Sergey Teryohin, microphone. Your position as committee and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u27	Dear National Deputies! You remember that a few weeks ago we voted to put a zero bet on grain imports. After that, our committee, the Agrarian Policy Committee, was held and two points were added in agreement with the government. One point is the possibility of getting a tax bill within 180 days for importers of grain to plan, to reduce the cost of this seed. And the second item to be allowed if a State has a liability for budgetary compensation is to account for VAT received in the sale of grain. All of this is completely consistent with the two committees. Once again, Budget, I apologize, Finance and Agrarian, with the government and no expense to Ukraine's State Budget. Instead, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to add, technically it turned out that such bills should appear to be any enterprise or with or without foreign capital. We're going to complete this in technical order, it's already in the hall. So the request on behalf of the committee, the two committees, again both the Financial and Budget Committee, to support this law, I apologize, and the Agrarian, to uphold this law and put it into effect as soon as possible in the final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u28	Mikola Rudzkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u29	Rudkowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Only partially solves the problem. But I don't understand how Mikola Janović can support this question -- the introduction of tax notes and the compensation or the charge of VAT. Mikolo Janovich, the oligarchs took out grain last year, counted VAT. And now they're gonna drive and make an account. They made export money, now they're going to make import money, and we have to make it up to them, actually make it up to the budget, so make it up to them. It is necessary to remove VAT and not favour large importers, but to remove VAT on imports and to allow small importers to work. Well, that's understandable. I don't understand the position of the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, all of you. Please, Buttercup, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u31	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I have to say that the committee is now filing a falsified project for the second reading. The point is that in the first reading, at the suggestion of the People's Deputy Teryochin, only one point was adopted -- to continue the zero rate of import duty until July 1, 2004. Now they're in the left column saying that they've been accepted and other items, it wasn't, it's a forgery. The other one. I made my proposal to the Committee on Agrarian Politics in connection with what was being prepared for the second reading. It dealt with the question of putting out an article seven in the form of: "In order not to allow the increase in retail prices for bread and onion products to be placed temporarily before the first of July at zero bet on grain crops." The Agrarian Policy Committee has reviewed and supported, and I can't see anywhere in the comparative tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u32	Dear National Deputies! Given the discussion that has taken place here, as far as I can see in the tables that have been tabled, they have been taken into account, I'm voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt the draft of this law in second reading and in general as a law. This is document number 4156. Please vote. [[16:37:55]] For 226 Decision taken. I ask the Secretariat to raise all the documents in connection with the comments and statements made by the national deputy Lechchenk so that we can find out all the circumstances. Well, let's work it out. That's what I'm talking about. "For" - 226, law passed. A draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Act on Export Customs for Waste and Garbage of Black Metals is being announced for consideration. Huh? Isn't the day okay? Why? So let's put it off then. Well, calm down. Calm down, I'm going as planned. What are you yelling at? He is in agreement with us. The drafter proposes to postpone the consideration. The committee doesn't deny it, does it? No, it doesn't. Stanislaw Nikolaynko, give me that project you asked us to vote on. Allow Nikolayenko to base the project on amending article 56 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2003. Please, Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, tell me from the scene, please. Or at the rostrum so that everyone can see you. The question is important, all the more. Niklaenko's microphone. Nicolanca refuses to report?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I ask because not all the political aspects are fully identified, let's take a little break. We're gonna make a deal now, and we're all gonna start working calmly. And we're going to vote on this bill because, in fact, today 220 schools of vocational education, 36 technikums and several colleges are down. We need to make a 2001-2002 debt account in the amount of 39 million dollars at the expense of the funds not paid by Naftogaz to Ukraine in the budget. There he did not pay nearly 4 billion dollars. But since this is the situation right now, I would still like to ask: let's vote on this issue after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-10-23-m1.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, since there are two factions: the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the factions of the Communist Party of Ukraine, that we should announce a 30-minute recess for consultations, we will probably have no opportunity, so with your permission, I declare that the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The next meeting will take place according to the calendar. I ask that we, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, date and time determine, hold consultations, and agree on how we will continue to do our work. I thank you for your work. The meeting was closed.
