ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:04:45]] Registered -446 There are 446 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Joofe Yuli Yakovič. Let us greet him, wish him well, and wish him every success. Honorable fellow workers, in line with article 2.5. 2 Wednesday's regulations have 45 minutes for statements by authorized factions and groups with proposals, requests, statements, messages. I'm asking representatives of the MPs and factions to file a statement. And if there is no objection, I could announce the questions that have come so that we can send them to the appropriate authorities. Dear colleagues, today is Human Rights Day. In this regard, I ask your permission to speak to Hennaday Josephovich Vudovenko, head of the committee, the committee’s chief committee on this matter. And then we'll look at the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. Today, the world’s public celebrates the International Day for the Protection of Human Rights. Congratulations to all of you on this great day. Today it coincides with the 55-year anniversary of the adoption by the UN General Assembly of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The ideology and content of this, of course an outstanding international legal instrument, were of great importance to the overall development and understanding of the concept of the protection of human rights on a global scale. Ukraine at all levels may claim that its basic law, the Constitution, contains the entire list of rights and freedoms enshrined in the declaration. This is a fully dedicated chapter of the second Constitution of Ukraine — the rights, freedoms and duties of man and citizen, which contains almost a third of all constitutional articles that experts, experts in the international race, estimate meet with the highest international standards. In particular, articles three and twenty - one of the Constitution of Ukraine give priority to human rights and freedoms. They are declared unmovable and inviolable, and their security is determined by the primary responsibility of the State. As the head of the Supreme Council's Preparatory Committee, I can say that in 12 years of independence, we have a legislative framework for human rights and a citizen that meets the highest standards in the world. But it's hard to say that the Constitution and the laws in this area are not being implemented. It raises particular concern that not only human social and economic rights are being violated, but it can also be explained by the difficulties of the transition period, the prolonged socio-economic crisis. As for fundamental civil and political rights, the right to personal freedom and to inviolability, the right to freedom of speech, thought and worldview, the right to vote, the right to vote, and the right to vote, must be established that the actual situation testifies, firstly, to the neglect of these rights by public authorities at all levels, and secondly, to the low level of legal awareness of many Ukrainian citizens. Here's where we're going to have to do our best to overcome negative phenomena and trends, to make things better. I want to express the hope that we will eventually be able to do this together and in the near future, when all the quality-enhanced branches of government in Ukraine are united in a common desire to build a modern democratic rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u3	Yes, Your Honor, let's move on to making inquiries. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Alexander Goodima to the President of Ukraine regarding the reasons for the dismissal of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Vitaly Hajduk. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:09:36]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:10:01]] For-189 The decision is not taken. People's Deputies - Savitsky, Lapin, Makeenko, only 23 national deputies - to the Supreme Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces on the impeccability of deploying the 30th separate tank brigade located in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. Please vote. [[10:10:39]] For 171 I would like to vote on this request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:11:01]] For 227 Decision taken. Stephen Cloud to the President of Ukraine on the reasons for his dismissal as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vitali Hayduk. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[10:11:31]] For-154 The solution. Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[10:11:53]] For-160. The decision is not taken. Mikoli Rudzkowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the violation by the Executive Directorate of the Social Insurance Fund of the temporary loss of employability of taxpayers' right to purchase New Year's gifts for their employees at the expense of contributions to the fund. Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for providing false information on the repayment of debt on the wages of miners of the “Switanok” mine, “Yellow-coal” mine, as well as the solution to the issue of domestic coal security. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to end violations of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' constitutional rights to pensions, in accordance with current legislation. Gregory Bondarenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the change in the 2004 budget for the Kyiv region. Groups of National Deputies: Bogatyrova, Demiński and others to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the development and preservation of the historic construction of the central part of the city of Lviv. Ivan Tomić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the deficit of the budget to pay for energy in agrarian educational institutions. Maria Markusz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economy and European Integration of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the financing of the unfinished construction of the Solotvina Allergy Hospital's Children's Corps. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for outright ridicule by the newspaper "Donetsk Cross Plus" of the Constitution of Ukraine, the inflaming of national hostility and the provocation of regional opposition. Julius Timoshenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal of the head and deputy head of the Chargord District State Administration of the Vinick region. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unjustified increase in coal prices in Herson and other areas of Ukraine. Vassil Gavriluk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the attempted bankruptcy of the open stock company Cremenchuk Gas, the illegal activities of the stockholders' company Poltavavoblanergo. Michael Melniczuk to Prime Minister 3 on the need for the annulment of the Cabinet of Ministers Order of 27 August 2003 "On the approval of tariffs for work and services performed are provided at the fees of the institutions and institutions of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service". Anatolia Átovajka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of forced eviction of residents from dormitory number 1 in the city of Kirovské Donetské region. Stanislava Nikolayenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of damages to farmers in the Herson region. Lesia Tanjuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the situation around the film studio Ukraine. Olga Hinzburg to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the intervention of the administrative authorities in the work of the Scottish Milk Union of the Suma Region. Anatolia Orzhachowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of preserving the natural complexes of the Black Sea Biosphere Reserve of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of the head of the Bilopil District State Administration and the head of the Yellow Village Council of the Sumsk district by his official position and the conduct of the actions that led to the financial inability of the Verinian Sugar Plant to material damage to the State. Mikhail Rodionov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine for the improper use of Olympic symbols by entrepreneurs and media. Victor Baloga and John Ivancho to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violations of the Law "On State Service", approved by the Director of the Zakartat District Employment Centre for the promotion of the leadership of the District Public Administration and the assassination of the State Employment Centre of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine for the appointment of the Director of the Mukatov City Employment Centre. Stepan Cloud to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the position of the Ukrainian government on the attempt of the only energy. Russia's energy systems take over power distribution companies in Ukraine. Sergia Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, in connection with the enumeration of the costs for the formation of light cars into the accounts of a non-state enterprise called Automotor Resources, rather than the State Budget. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of the land under construction in the suburbs of the Hmeljna multi-child family from the village of Tserpova Hmelnicki district. Mikhail Rodionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of the completion of the consultative clinic of the Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. Sergia Kiwalova and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine on violations in the work of the Odessa Director of the Ukrainian State Postal Service, Vladislav Troschenka's Office to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of new tariffs for the services of the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Service by the Cabinet of Ministers. Osika's Sergei to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, to pay off the debt from the Chernobyl benefits. Dmitry Rudzkowski to the first Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the appeal of Ukrzalnica for damages for the transfer of the population's tax categories. Vladimir Leschchenka to the First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the promotion of individual state bodies to the bankruptcy of the Open Shareholders Association of the "Silbnian Rajagrochem" of the Chernigiv region. Osika to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the additional grant of the budget of the city of Slavotic. Romana Zvarič to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the appeal of Bogdan Kanduk for falsification of his signature and consideration of parliamentary petitions on this matter. Vladimir Yeshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the heads of the State Executive Service of the Sosnov district of Cherkasa and the law enforcement authorities of the Cherkasa and Vinnitsk regions in relation to the common Ukrainian and French. Igor Alekseieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of Ukrainian law in the award of rations to citizens of the Odiopol region of Odessa. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the beating of minors during their interrogation by members of the police of the Righteous District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev. Pavel Žebrovsky and Vladimir Fialkowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unlawful involvement of tax authorities in the work of the Open Association of Shareholders of LUAZ. Petra Cibenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation of Ukrainian law on the status of the Ukrainian People's Deputy. Valery Assadchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Kyiv City Head, on the protection of constitutional rights to life, health and housing of residents of House 20-B on the Prospect of Soviet Ukraine in Kiev. Leukka Lukyanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for informing the people’s deputies about the implementation by the Attorney General of the recommendations made in Supreme Council decision No. 140 of September 12, 2002. Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation in the Malovsky region of Kirovograd as a result of unlawful actions by the head of the district government. Igora Alexeieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violations of Ukrainian law in relation to residents of the village of Nova Dolina of the Odiopol district of Odessa. Vladimir Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the misconduct of some of the employees of the Zaro District Police Department and the Public Prosecutor’s Office of Suma. Mikhail Pavlovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, for reasons of unbiasedness in the examination of the facts of the complaint made by the employees of the Open Shareholder Association of the Hmelnick Sugar Company. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the death of the head of the Gordock District Organization of Reform and Order, Yuri Bosaka. Alexander Turchinov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal detention and criminal prosecution of the judge of the Kalinin district court of Gorlovka. Julius Timoshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on human rights violations committed by law enforcement authorities to the Novoselk village head of the Buzek district of Lviv. Victor Rozwadowski to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the acquisition of hearing aids for disabled persons by hearing the inhabitants of the 69th constituency of the Žitomir district. Anatolia Grozhev to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the situation around the monument of garden and park art of the state importance of the park "Forosky" of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Victor Slavata to the Ministry of Environmental Protection of Ukraine regarding the strengthening of the coastline of the Azov Sea in the area of the New Azov region of the Donetsk region. Dmitry Rudkovsky to the Minister of Agrarian Politics of Ukraine regarding the abuse of office as director of the Biloczerkian subsidiary of the Kyiv Regional National Trimpics. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Ministry of Transport of Ukraine regarding the construction of the 60th apartment building in the town of Cosatín Alexander Baranowski to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the facts of corruption, bribery and abuse of office at the Zitomir Military Institute of Radioelectronics. Michael Melniczuk to the Minister of Agricultural Policy of Ukraine regarding the non-payment of payments to agricultural producers in the region of Novoselické region for the sale of young cattle. Mykoli Tomenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the clarification of the order and the reasons for the issue of special registration plates. Valentina Savitsky to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine on the untargetability of the 30th separate tank brigade located in the city of Novograd-Volinski Žitomirsk. Viktor Rozwadowski to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of medical equipment to the Romanian District Hospital and the High-Picked Medical Clinic of the Žitomir Region. Alexander Ustenko to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the problems of accounting for all types of cash payments to military personnel released from the reserve. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for the payment of compensation for food to the Chernobyl disaster liquidators in the region of Chernobyl. Vladimir Puzakov to the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on the violation by the Lenin District Court of the city of Kyrovgrad of a lawsuit to remove obstacles to land use. Paul Silent, head of the National Broadcasting Committee of Ukraine, head of the National Television Company of Ukraine, head of the National Radio Company of Ukraine for failure by the National Television Company of Ukraine and the National Radio Company of Ukraine for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hold parliamentary hearings on the theme "Spiritual crisis of society and ways of overcoming them". Levka Lukyanenka headed by the National Property Fund of Ukraine to verify compliance with the current legislation of Ukraine to privatize property in the territory of the National Hortica Reserve. Valentina Seminouk to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the suspension of privatization of project institutions, Crimcomunproject and Crim project reconstruction, excluding them from the list of property rights subject to privatization. Mikoli Steele, head of the State Committee on Family and Youth, heads of the Odessa District State Administration on the status of children’s homes. John Mihowich to the Chief of State Service of Ukraine about the mispractice of the Zacarpathian district administration with management personnel. Vladimir Yavorowski to the President of the National Television Company of Ukraine for systematic violation of the leadership of Ukraine's First National Television on Information, Television and Broadcasting, on the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy, which appears in constant disinformation about the programmes, intentions and actions of parliamentary opposition in news broadcasts, blocking access to television to opposition leaders, which violates the constitutional rights of voters to obtain reliable information on the activities of elected national deputies. Paul Mouchcan to the Kiev city head for failure to implement the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take over the land for the construction of a state-owned historical-memory complex of victims of hunger, political repression and violent deportation. Valentina Semenyuk to the Kiev city head about not taking action to stop construction work related to the superstructure of additional roofs of a building on the street of Kruglounisty in Kiev and the lack of response to the appeal of a special control commission. Alexander Dove to the crowning city head in violation of Ukraine’s land lease law. Jury Artemenka to the prosecutor of Zaporozhye district on the illegal increase in the cost of technical examination of cars in Zaporozhye region. Julius Tymoshenko, head of the Bankruptcy Agency for the Inability to pay back the financial aid to the Golo-Pristani District Public Organisation of Ukraine for the purpose of liquidation of the share-holder commercial bank "Ukraine". Vladimir Puzakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation and delay of the investigation into the murder of Lieutenant ZBU Romanenko Alexandr Ivanovich on March 5, 2002 in the city of Kirovograd. All the questions that have come have been made. Let's move on to the speeches authorized by. Mikola Kravchenko from the procedure, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u4	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I'd like a moment's attention, I've taken the floor from the procedure to the next moment. Recently, the media has been pushing the situation through the Ministry of the Interior. An illegal order has been issued to seize the rights of drivers. A major operation now unfolds, which threatens to be seriously beaten, the so-called Belt Operation. Yesterday in the media on TV, you know that from the TV screen we were threatening to get to the Supreme Council, and today a team of sergeants were given to stop all the cars that have the Supreme Council numbers. We are not defending ourselves, but it is a matter of driving down to the top today, and almost 10 million of them today, are grappling with it. That's why I'm proposing a procedure. I propose to consider this as an official request by the MP, the Minister of the Interior, what this is. And the second. Invite him on Tuesday, next plenary week, with a report on the matter. Thank you, for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let's move on to speeches commissioned by MPs and factions with statements, reports, information. Victor Pinzenik of the faction "Our Ukraine" has the word to prepare Michael Melniczuk. Please, Your Honor, follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u6	A statement from the faction of our Ukraine. The government’s 2004 parliamentary majority budget is remembered for its citizens not only by lowering the minimum wage, from 237 to 205 dollars. Against the backdrop of the unprecedented increase in bread and other foods, such a New Year’s gift to fellow countrymen was not the only surprise of the budget. The 2004 Budget Act carries out a serious revision of tax legislation aimed at increasing the impact on the social interests of citizens. Since the New Year, taxes have been taxed: charitable aid, funds to protect work, maintain medical institutions, and social enterprises, profits from social organizations of disabled persons, coal to families of lost miners. The government and its majority have apparently decided to implement the principle of medicine only for the rich. How else can you explain the decision to impose VAT on medicines, medical services, and an increase of 8 times the alcohol excise that is used to produce drugs? Such decisions make it impossible for most citizens to receive medical care. Since the new year, our fellow countrymen will have to pay a cumulative, or increasing, tax on the added value of selling apartments, which in general makes it impossible to sell. The same tax will be taxed on the sale and delivery of newspapers, the sale of books. The Ukrainian peasants have not received additional attention. As a result of the introduction of the world’s unique VAT rules for the export of agricultural products from the village, 2 billion dollars will be added, 20 percent will be increased for farmers to pay for land ownership. The "Our Ukraine" faction claims that government statements of tax relief are an empty declaration. There was a significant increase in taxes, not only in the pockets of citizens, but also in the Ukrainian economy. Against this background, claims of a lack of funds to put the minimum wage into effect in 237 dollars seem cynical. The Ukrainian faction insists on the 2004 antisocial budget review by abolishing the tax standards included in it and by introducing a minimum wage of 237 dollars, while restoring inter-employment salaries in the salaries of educators, doctors, scientists, cultural workers. The head of the Viktor Yushchenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u7	From the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Leonid Vernigor has the word to prepare Anatoly Rahanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u8	Leonid Vernigora, a socialist faction of Ukraine. The criminal regime stole a piece of bread from hungry mouths. Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. The Ukrainian authorities, in which they cynically mocked their own people. The long - awaited increase in wages and pensions has resulted in the turnout of human rights. Referring to the 22nd article of the Constitution of Ukraine, the regime by the hands of the government and the collected, apathetic to the fate of the people by a majority of Parliament on 25 November this year reduced the statutory minimum wage from 237 dollars to 205. Depraved by impunity, the Bush regime has taken away the last hope of being saved by bread, which the same authority has traveled on and on and on and on and on and on and on. With such a gift, the regime welcomed its citizens with the coming New Year’s, making their flock happy before Christ’s Christmas. Saving himself from a righteous court, desiring to retain anything in power, the regime on account of the already meager wages and pensions saved itself in the 2004 budget of 2 and a half billion dollars to repurchase a presidential chair at the expense of the citizens in the next election to continue pretending to be human beings. Citizens have already come to terms with the fact that their pension, their salary, does not amount to half of the living minimum that it does not pay in time, not that it increases. Children go hungry to school, and the last few are paid for schooling, utilities, rent, and medicine. However, in order for such a brutal and deplorable way to give up the increase in wages, to snatch the last piece of bread from the poor one’s mouth, this was the first time even in antisocial policy of the regime. These are the same methods that the former totalitarian regime organized in 1933. After celebrating the 70th anniversary of the famine, the bush started the famine in 2004. Once again, the lying authorities tricked the people, delayed the salary hike for another year, and then the pension. The presidential majority in Parliament did not want to support a well - founded social figure of a minimum wage of 305 dollars, so again in schools, schools, kindergartens, dormitories there will be cold, and hungry teachers will come to hungry children, and doctors to the same patients who have nothing to pay for food and medicine. And there's money in the state for both a palace with chimeras and a sanatorium for the employees of the President's Administration to raise wages for the strong structures. Socialists warn voters in eastern Ukraine of attempts by the authorities to bribe miners with a lying line in the budget of double-assignment to the coal sector. As always, it will end with new debts, new strikes, the next enrichment of the daughter’s oligarchs, and the impoverishment of real miners. Only a criminal regime can resort to the wolf law "The Stronger Takes It From the Weaker." Let them all reduce their wages so that thieves can increase their income in order to snatch a piece of bread out of their mouth. Socialists call on citizens, do not believe those who are constantly lying to you, who are deceiving you. Be Watchful! Together to a better fate! We're going to win." Alexander Moroz, leader of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u9	Thank you. Anatoly Rahanski of the deputy faction of the political parties of the Ukrainian industry and entrepreneurs and "Trudova Ukraine". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u10	Anatoly Rahansky, Epatorian constituency, Trudova Ukraine. A statement by the deputy faction of the political parties of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trudova Ukraine". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The universal truth of “population health depends on the quality of drinking water. ” Sadly, in recent years it has deteriorated dramatically both in cities and in villages. But special emphasis has been placed on providing drinking water for the rural population. At present, only 4 out of 16 million villagers are able to use centralized water supply systems. The rest take water from wells, adapted springs. Most of these objects do not meet the established standards, since they usually have surface water. The shipping of wells has shown that water pollution by chemical agents, radionucleides, exaggerates the sanitary standard to tens or hundreds of times. In addition, 1,228 villages and towns are forced to use imported water. The use of contaminated water every year has caused epidemics in many regions of Ukraine, especially dangerous infectious diseases such as hepatitis, dysentery, and even cholera. Our faction has repeatedly drawn the attention of authorities and the public to the problem of drinking water quality. As consistent, we continue to insist on an urgent solution to the issue of providing quality drinking water to the population of Ukraine and the efficient use of public funds allocated to water programmes. Since 1999, the Supreme Council has foreseen in Ukraine’s national budget the cost of drilling artesian wells. The cost of these works was set apart in a single line. They amounted to 10 to 12 percent of the total funding for the development of the mineral and raw materials base. This allowed 700 artesian wells to be used in rural areas. In the adopted Act on Ukraine's 2004 State Budget, funding for further work on drilling artesian wells has been allocated to the development of a mineral raw material base totalling 248 million dollars. And what part of that money will be allocated to drilling wells, unknown. From the foregoing, our faction considers it necessary to go to the Cabinet of Ministers with a proposal to prepare an appropriate decision on financing the drilling of artesian wells within the cost of developing a mineral raw material base in the amount agreed on in the first reading, i.e. 35 million dollars. I request that you consider this a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u11	National MP Sinchenko from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Get Terran ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I'm not on the rostrum to say that we have a Communist-led protest in Ukraine today about the price of bread. It, this journey, takes place objectively, regardless of whether the public has assured a coalition but yet irresponsible Kabmin that the bread will not be valued or not assured. It is not because yesterday many people have sincerely rejoiced, but not all of the 234 voters who voted in favour of the country's humiliating deployment of military helicopters for peaceful purposes to the State under whose flag the world ocean has been plagued by pirates and smugglers of the twentieth century for the past few decades. Mainly, you have fulfilled your purpose and “whirl” thus the opposition. Congratulations on the success of some of the majority, who, after two failed previous attempts, were very proud of themselves and personally told me that they would never vote in favour. I have a small Ukrainian district and a typical problem. A private enterprise of OAU Lysican Soda, the sole producer of food soda for particularly advanced sodium bicarbonate, was suspended on 5 August 2003 because of debt formation of management's inability to remove the enterprise from the crisis. The current salary is not paid to the three-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-total since April 2003. The length of the prior dismissal is calculated over the years. The factory employs entire families who have been deprived of their means of subsistence through the rule of law, due to the constitutional right to receive a salary no less than the prescribed law, thanks to fed, served, intimidated and non-profits, and contrary to the Penal Code, where there is an article, which the employer is charged with inadvertent non-payment of wages. In the collective letters, the workers refer to the President, the Government, the deputies, who list the disgraces in the factory and the screams for help. Desperate hundreds of people pick up local prosecutors in order to return law enforcement officials and law enforcement officers to their functions. Today, for the fourth time to draw the attention of the authorities at all levels to the problem of extreme necessity, there is no train movement within eight hours of the motorway of the Donetsk Railway. At that time, when the production of an old but, in principle, a profitable enterprise is liquid both in the domestic market of Ukraine and abroad. I have a question: how and what will our Government and Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovic Yanukovic report to the President on the performance of his mandate if Chubays and others like him will accept tomorrow's plant, a food soda monopolist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u13	Thank you. Victor Terrence of the Julia Timoshenko block. Get ready for Vasile Right away.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u14	Victor Terrence, Yulia Tymoshenko block. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Each year we hear joyful news of the growth of gross national product. So recently another news has been flying around Ukraine and is so happy because a new budget has been adopted far before the New Year. And it would seem that these joys would be on a standard of living. But it's happening and it's really happening from the opposite point of view. I've already been talked about here by colleagues, and I have to say again, to emphasize this, the price of bread has risen, in November we have a record level of inflation, and as a result of the new budget, the price of medicine is going to rise. And because VAT is introduced into the printed product, the Ukrainian printing and opposition press will be destroyed. The population will remain hungry and illiterate. The same figure is 500 million dollars to return to the budget. And now for more details about the return on savings. Members of the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, submitted a bill to the Parliament, according to which at least one per cent of the gross national product should be paid for the return of savings to the budget. And I hope that, with some amendments or other amendments, this bill or other similar bills that solve the savings problem will be adopted by the deputies. But unfortunately, I am equally convinced that the President will not sign such laws. After all, for three years. The Kuchma Supreme Council fourteen times, I want people to listen to it, 14 times vetoed laws that guarantee people's return to their contributions. The government says there's no money. He has no money for Ukrainian books and medicine, bread and savings, but the budget has raised again millions of expenses for the Attorney General’s Office and the Tax Inspectorate, for the State Administration of Presidential Affairs, the insatiable so-called aunt Dussu, as she was baptized in the people. There's money for a military contingent in Iraq. There is nothing more to return the same savings to the people, and that is because there is an anti - Ukrainian government in Ukraine that does not protect Ukraine’s interests. And while Kuchma travels to Moscow more often than Dzcherbicki did, he will never violate the issue of Ukraine's return to the 132 billion. The money that was transferred in the 91st century was saved and then disappeared into the bottomless Moscow pockets. The Ukrainian authorities do not protect the life interests of every citizen or state in general. It is estimated that the ex-Minister of the economy of Lanové Ukraine will lose between 10 billion and 15 billion per year as a result of the accession to the EP. Annuity every year. I'm done. Today is the day of human rights, and every citizen of our nation must have the holy right to bread, the spiritual bread, but in Ukraine every citizen must also have the holy right to Ukrainian authority, at last the right to the Ukrainian President, not the one who, through the Constitutional Court and the constitutional machinations, is now bridged by a third term, because normal life can be guaranteed only by Ukrainian authority, not by the present-day cavalry authorities, but by the Chevaliers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u15	Thank you. Basil Nadrag of the National Election Group has a word for it. prepare Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u16	Dear Vassili, Lugansk Region, People's Choice. Dear colleagues, I am speaking today, I am coming to you with a proposal on behalf of the members of the People's Choice on the following subject. There are more than 200,000 people living in Ukraine today. Citizens who, following the Second World War, participated in foreign wars, military conflicts and coalitions in more than 20 countries around the world. Given the composition of the families of veterans of foreign wars, this topic concerns more than a million of our fellow countrymen. Of course, the most famous conflict on this subject, where our people participated, was the 79-89 Afghan War, the largest and longest war since the Second World War. Since that war, 3,360 soldiers have never returned to their homeland, of whom 3,280 have died, 80 of them missing or captured. Today, there are more than 150,000 participants in fighting in Afghanistan, of whom more than 8,000 are injured, and 3,560 are disabled. Father and 2729 mothers, 505 widows, 711 children are orphaned. I'm not telling it to tell you how difficult it is. I appeal to you with support because you are not the worst of me, you know that it has become traditional to celebrate the anniversary of the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan. In all the district centres, large parts of the district centres contain monuments of soldiers who died in foreign wars. On 15 February, State leaders, people's deputies, local authorities, the general public, veterans of the Great Homeland War and veterans of foreign wars took part in the memorial activities. Much of the role and great participation, thanks to this, is taken by the church in these cases and is independent of its concessions. I would like to ask you to support our initiative to support proposals and sufficiently many years of proposals by civil society organizations of foreign veterans, participants in hostilities in other countries, when they proposed and applied for the establishment in Ukraine of the All-Ukrainian Day of Veterans of Foreign Wars, and thus to legislate the traditions that have emerged in our society. Of course, if we accept it, such action will help us to consolidate society and will find appropriate support for hundreds of thousands of people who are unaware of what war is abroad. Therefore, today I am addressing you esteemed colleagues, please support you, some have already responded to the call to support the proposals for the President of Ukraine to establish 15 February as the State Day of Foreign Veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Igor Shurma, faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. Please prepare Vasil Kalinczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u18	The faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Ukraine's Social Democratic Party MP in the Supreme Council of Ukraine sees the solution of the most acute social problems as one of the most important priorities of its activities. [[united]] First of all, we are concerned about the health problems associated with the activity of fellow citizens. The strong belief of Ukraine's Social Democratic Party is that some 3 million disabled people living in Ukraine must be constantly alert and concerned not only by power but also by public organizations. [[united]] This belief is the result of our constant little work aimed at helping people with limited abilities. The party welcomes this year’s proclamation of people with disabilities. However, we believe that public organizations and political parties should be concerned about the needs of citizens with disabilities, not in slogans or in red days, but daily. Today, it is clear that social problems cannot be solved by just one law - enforcement approach, although this is a very important element in helping people with disabilities. It's not enough to give a person a mechanism of action, it's also necessary to create all the conditions for self-implementation. And it is here that there are virtually unlimited opportunities for public organizations, social integration of people with limited capabilities and assistance in realizing and realizing their inalienable human rights -- an area of social activity that public organizations, and first of all, their mass-unifications as political organizations, can and should be fully implemented. The arsenal of party organisations in this direction is diverse and multifaceted. Fine actions, legal advice, support for the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, explanatory work, including through printed party media, the involvement of persons with disabilities in party work, regular round tables and public actions involving persons with disabilities. The ability to talk about ourselves and to fight for ourselves is a direct responsibility of public organizations. Taking into account the number of parties registered in Ukraine and their real rather than declarative interest in the status of persons with disabilities, the declared position is capable of solving the overly significant health problem of recognizing them as equal members of society. It is not a secret that today in society is dominated by stereotyping a disabled person as a person to be pitied. Such a position also allows for the real transfer of disabled persons from the degrading condition of applicants to the principle of new quality fighters for their rights. If there is an active lobby for people with disabilities, society as a whole will gain. Yes, education, health care, employment, housing, and social protection of persons with disabilities are a direct duty of the State, and their equal status in society, the deep conviction of the party, the honor of public organizations. Ukraine's Social-Democratic Party calls on all political parties in Ukraine to concentrate their activities in Parliament on ensuring social adaptation of people with disabilities, raising their social status. Every real step of any political power in this direction will be a worthy act within the stated year of people with disabilities worthy of human action. The Supreme Council should set an example in this regard. And the faction calls for every sessional day to begin with the consideration of laws that deal with the wrongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u19	Thank you. If you remember, yesterday we passed about 10 bills that have something to do with it. From the Agrarian Party, the word is given to the National Deputy Kalinchuk. From Postfaction to Cosachenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u20	Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. In the budget, the State Budget Act 2003 provides for debt to the National Shareholder's National Budget, Naftogaz Ukraine, to send 130 million dollars to build pipelines to rural areas. As of November 26, 1826, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers has already provided for the construction of gasification facilities at the expense of these funds. And that can only be supported. But it's December 10th. There is no funding mechanism for construction of gas pipelines to rural areas. First of all, no one knows where it is. So in fact, the construction of the country's gas pipelines is not financed. And it can happen that these funds that are provided for by the State Budget Act for this year and by the same decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the gasification of rural areas may not be used, the gas-waters are not built. The faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party calls on the government to speed up this work and to inform us what has been done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u21	Thank you. The word has the national deputy of Ukraine, Kozachenko Aleksyyyyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u22	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I stand for the commission of the National Deputies to join the Interfractional MPs' Association of Majority. A statement. "Dear colleagues! During the last year, certain political forces in the Supreme Council have been trying to ensure that the Law on the Election of National Deputies is adopted on a proportionate basis with closed lists. Despite the repeated rejection of the relevant bills, this issue is again referred to the agenda of the daily session in contravention of the rules of the Rules. We MPs elected in one-maned constituencies express our protest over the actions of individual factions. They have nothing to do with the will of the electorate, and the methods used to achieve the desired decision have all the signs of political blackmail. Electoral legislation has become the subject of a political trade. The work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the exercise of its constitutional powers, is at stake. The lack of acceptance by the majority of national deputies and the vast majority of voters of the purely proportional electoral system is caused by its imperfection. The restrictions laid down by the Constitution of Ukraine on the rights of the electorate of citizens. Ukraine today is not objectively ready for a proportional system of closed lists elections. The political unstructured society, the low level of trust in the party, the opaque approach to the formation of party lists make it unacceptable to the country. The effect of applying such a system in existing conditions will be to ignore the interests of the electorate, to trade in places in the lists of parties, to reduce the representation of regions in the higher legislative body, to monopolize the political life of the country. Moreover, most countries in Europe have already refused to vote for not only a party but also a particular individual. Our conviction is to move closer to European standards, not to the introduction of outdated electoral schemes, which should be the main objective of the change in Ukraine’s electoral legislation. With this in mind, we urge us to stop speculating on the subject of electoral legislation and to abide by the rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the work of our legislative body. The further oppression of the situation around this topic, we MPs elected in one-maned constituencies, will see as an attack on the constitutional rights of our constituents and us, their representatives. In the event of the introduction of previously rejected election bills to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we leave the right to oppose these purposes, regardless of who they come from." A total of 53 signatures of the people's deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u23	Thank you. I just want to say. Don't make any noise, please. I would just like to say to the National Deputy Cosachenka that the Constitutional Court -- he and only he -- has the right to rule on the constitutionality of certain laws, to answer that this is constitutional. You can think differently. Yes, all the performances are over, we're starting to implement the agenda. You know, dear colleagues, that you and I adopted the changes to the Rules yesterday. This decision has been effective since its adoption, because today, Wednesday, you and I have to consider ratification issues and make appropriate decisions on them. Out of procedure, please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorowski and Žovkovsky districts, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, there must be my letter, and I want to exercise my parliamentary right, which is stipulated as a national MP. I am dissatisfied with the response of the president of the National Television Company and would like to express my opinion on this and repeat this request. Do I have the right to do that, or don't I have it anymore?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u25	You have the right to do so, but you have agreed, since this was not from the faction today, but from your own personal faction, you will receive such a right on Friday because there are other national deputies here. So on Friday you will implement it. Thank you. From what? From the question, what will be considered? Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u26	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I suggest you save time. Among these issues that are being ratified today are the framework agreements. So if we can even discuss them here and so on. We're still going to ratify them. There are some here that need to be discussed, for example. Like an archaeological heritage, or...? on cooperation in the field of defence, or on the demarcation of the state border. These are the ones we can discuss and discuss. And all the other questions are framed. Let's just vote for them and save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u27	Thank you, Vitalia. I, my dear colleagues, understand and that's how we're going to act: a draft law is being announced and we're going to make decisions. There is a need to discuss, to listen, and so forth. That is, we will act as prescribed by the Rules. Carmazine and we're moving on to the bill discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u28	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's block "Our Ukraine". Dear Adam Ivanovich, your Honorary colleagues, yesterday under the influence of some, some forces who did not understand what they were voting for, Project 3736 on amending the Criminal Code and the Code of Administrative Offences was not voted on. I addressed the Head of the Supreme Council and you, Adam Ivanovich, were promised to set up but then forgotten. I'd like to go back to that question, because it has a sovereign weight, it doesn't need Carmazin, it needs a state. In addition, Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you as chairman of the session, asking you to protect the problems of Ukraine's state sovereignty, which is that the head of NAC's Naftogaz Ukraine Boyko has been beating the thresholds in Moscow in the Kremlin for two days to ensure pressure on the appointment of Ukraine's Vice Prime Minister. And he's the first deputy minister of fuel and energy. And this is Ukraine's national security. I ask the government to explain it immediately. Who sent it when there's no such department?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u29	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, this is a matter of government, where, for what, how, and how to send a cabinet official. You and I have absolutely nothing to do with this. We tell them, we make notes if they interfere with our work. Why do you want to interfere with their work? This is the division of branches of power, Yuri Anatolyevich, come on, you're the most always on the letter of the law, don't let it get in the way. In terms of your first offer, 3736, Yuri Anatolyovich, or 3536? 3736. Dear colleagues, I'm asking for your support. There's a proposal, and yesterday we really voted this bill, it didn't get the required number of votes. If you don't mind, I'm voting for a motion to have us re-read Bill 3736. What's that about? That's what happens when you set a minimum. Assadchev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u30	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, for example, I supported him in reiterating his first reading or something. Well, let's not insolently violate everything. There's gonna be a vote tomorrow. We'll vote tomorrow. Well, it's one day, but we're not going to break it already, and we're not going to break it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u31	Well, the thing is, I'm not violating it, because before I put it to the vote, would I put it to a vote, or would you support that? Let's support my colleague Assadchev about what he really is. Yuri Anatoliyovich, tomorrow Thursday, tomorrow we will settle the matter peacefully and not excite the hall. Okay, thanks. The draft law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Cuba, registration number 0103, is being complied with. Is there a need to report on this bill? No questions? Then I propose to support the law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Cuba. Vote. [[11:05:26]] For 208
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the national deputies to the session room. Mobilize, please. We agreed that the ratification would be voted on, as my colleague tells me, the ratification of treaties is sacred. I am voting on the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of the Consular Convention between Ukraine and the Republic of Cuba. Please vote. How the law of voting is treated. Please vote. [[11:06:17]] For 265 Decision taken. A draft law on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Cuba on legal relations and legal assistance in civil and criminal matters is under consideration. Are there any warnings about this document? None. I am voting for the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Cuba on Legal Relations and Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:07:01]] For 276 Decision taken. A draft Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage is being announced for consideration. Any warning? Who has the warning? I bet on the vote, Your Honor: on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the European Convention on the Protection of Archaeological Heritage. [[revised]] Please vote. [[11:07:42]] For 333 Decision taken. A draft law on the denunciation of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Uzbekistan on the prevention of double citizenship is being announced for consideration. Please, Hennady Josephovich. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, Honourable People's Deputies. There are two bills for your consideration: a bill on the denunciation of the Treaty with Uzbekistan and a bill on the denunciation of the Treaty with Georgia. These documents were discussed in the committee. And we recommended that the Supreme Council denounce these contracts. But because of the well-known events in Georgia, we propose that we now consider this issue to be postponed in order to hold the necessary consultations with Georgia's new leadership. But I would stress that this proposal is not for legal reasons but purely for ethical reasons: a new leadership has come and needs to be accepted. I would like to accept this proposal from the committee. That is to ratify the denunciation of the Treaty with Uzbekistan and postpone it with Georgia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u34	Honorary colleagues, when there are no warnings, I put to the vote a draft law on the approval of the draft law on the denunciation of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Uzbekistan on the prevention of double civility cases. Registration number 0154. Please vote. [[11:09:44]] For 335 Decision taken. With regard to the draft law on the denunciation of the Treaty between Ukraine and Georgia on the prevention of double citizenship and elimination, there already exists. Double citizenship. The position of the committee has been proven to you. Please, Gmira, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u35	Thank you. Vladimir Mihajlovich, I just think that, with regard to these denunciation decisions, it is necessary to say on the air that this has nothing to do with the deterioration of relations between States. The very word “denunciation” is broken down by treaties, which are due to objective reasons. At least two words to let the people know what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u36	Please, Hennady Josephovich, then from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Please, Hennady Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u37	What's this all about? The Supreme Council passed the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, which is more liberal in granting the right to Ukrainian citizenship to Ukrainian citizens, relatives and so on than the Ukrainian-Uzbekistan agreement. I mean, if we're being approached by a Uzbek citizen and he says he's getting out of Uzbekistan, that's enough for us, because he has to pay a lot of money to get this document. And our people live in the poverty of 2/3 of our people. That's what denunciation is all about. We were negotiating, not us, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was negotiating with Uzbekistan, Georgia. And people are waiting, many people, for the issue of citizenship to be resolved. In connection with this, the existence of this treaty. And I think the Ukrainian public will approve of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u38	First Deputy Minister Vladimir Jelchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Gennady Josephovich Udovenko said quite correctly, this position is supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and in this case it is a positive denunciation, not a negative one. That is, it will simply improve the position of those who want to acquire Ukrainian citizenship. As far as Georgia is concerned, I also fully agree, those documents were submitted for your consideration long before the events in Georgia. Today, indeed, the situation is that it is better to delay and give our ministry the opportunity to hold consultations, at least to inform the Georgian side of what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u40	No objection, dear colleagues? A draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Mongolia on cooperation in the field of defence is under consideration. Andrew School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, you have to listen to a representative of the Ukrainian military because I want to know what cooperation will be between Ukraine's more powerful army and Mongolia's even more powerful army? When it's reflected, I think we understand that maybe we'll get a couple of war camels or something. I just want to know what such cooperation will be like.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u42	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u43	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! We moved on to the issue of Mongolia, but I realized that we did not vote for the denunciation of the agreement with Uzbekistan, so we failed to do what Hennaday Josephovich and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked. So please go back to the question, vote for Uzbekistan, postpone Georgia, then consider Mongolia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u44	Thank you. We voted on Uzbekistan and made a positive decision. We have only postponed Georgia to the head of the Hennadia Committee of Josephovich Widowenka and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We voted on that question. Please, Alexander Ivanovich Zatinaiko. Report from the scene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u45	We propose to ratify this Agreement because there is a wide range of issues that will be addressed by state-owned enterprises within the Ministry of Defence. It's modernizing and repairing aviation technology, MlG-21 aircraft, helicopters of all types of MIs, BTR-60.70 armored equipment, anti-air defence and communications that are on the armament of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, but they're finally getting out of weapons, as we're moving on to more promising digital communications. Today, 14 treaties have already been signed by the state with Mongolia, and so this is one of the agreements that will be the only bloc for military and technical cooperation with Mongolia. In addition, those technology models, weapons that are obsolete and removed from weapons that are to be disposed of, will accordingly be offered to the Mongolian side for the implementation of technology and weapons. We think that the Mongolian market has considerable prospects for domestic manufacturers of defence and cooperation products under this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u46	Yes, dear colleagues, the point is that we're going to be helping, so we're going to be developing essentially military-technical cooperation. Is there no warning against us ratifying such a document? I'll bet. The committee supports. What's more, says the committee's first deputy head. I am voting on the approval of the draft law on ratification between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of Mongolia on cooperation in the field of defence. Registration number 0146. Please vote. [[11:16:30.]] For 322 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law on Ratification of the State border demarcation clause between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova is announced for consideration. Alexander Fedorovich Motsik, please microphone. Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u47	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. The demarcating of the state border between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova was signed in January of this year in Moldova. In accordance with article 7, paragraph 2, of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, the above-mentioned provision is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft legislative act was developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and agreed with the administration of the State Foreign Service and the Ministry of Justice. In view of the Moldovan side’s implementation of the necessary internal procedures, the Supreme Council’s commitment to Ukraine’s position will create the necessary preconditions for this position of validity. Acquisitions and its practical implementation will allow: First. Implement the position of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova on the State border in the part concerning the demarcation of the common border. The other one. Create legal ambushes and ensure a systematic approach to regulatory regulation of the conduct of the demarcation of the Ukrainian-Moldov state border. Third. Establish an effective mechanism for the functioning of a joint Ukrainian-Moldov demarcation commission and properly demarcate the common state border. In view of the above, please approve the above draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, this is about the position, the methodology of the work on demarcation. Is that what I'm saying? It's not about demarcation. Please, Yuri Carmazin, then Yavorowski, then School, then Yuri Solomatine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin, the Party Protectors of the Motherland, the Solidarity Unit of Victor Yuschenk "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen of the people, distinguished Vladimir Mikhailovich. I have great respect for Alexander Fedorovich Motzik. True, I don't know if today he has authority under the President's Order, which essentially conveys Mr. Eagle's function of MFZ and Mr. Medvedchuk's control. And they probably need to think, we need to hear now, or we need to do something about that decree. I'd like to ask them, both of them. Article 5 defines agreements that cross-border pillars are established by each side in the territory of their own state. And this agreement was signed by the government on January 29, 2003. After that, the border pillars were buried in the territory of the Ukrainian object, Dnistrovska GES, which has very serious economic significance for the entire region. And there's a yawn on our territory. And ruined Ukrainian-Moldov relations. Our noble army didn't even collapse, the MCS didn't do anything either. I would like to be told what is being done now and why this Article 5 is being violated, it is already being violated that it is not within its borders.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u50	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski. That's the same question. Andrew School, then Yuri Solomatin. And then in the end, I'm going to ask for an explanation. Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'd like to draw your attention once again that we don't have the right here to consider the issue of. the law on even ratification. We have to denounce the delimitation of the border between Ukraine and Moldova because it was carried out: (a) illegally, (b) none of the state's senior officials even noticed that in Ukraine they had opened up the sovereign territory, 17 hectares of sovereign Ukrainian territory, along with the conductor Dnistrovska GAES. I'm just wondering why the Moldovans didn't take the whole Kiev, I think, along with Bank Street. Because this delimitation could have been done in the same way. She was illegal, anti-State. And sooner or later, all those who carried out the delimitation would be brought to criminal responsibility for treason of the state and state interests. So now everyone who pushes the button for this bill will push the button against Ukraine, against its independence, against its territorial integrity. And we don't need any explanation here that the Moldovans have put a pillar in their territory. This territory was given to her by Ukrainian officials, and only then was it installed, this fungus. That's why I insist not just on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u52	Thank you. Yuri Solomatin, then Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u53	Yuri Solomatine, Communist faction, Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. Our committee had a field meeting, where the national patriotic opposition is breaking the writings. Indeed, there are problems. But those problems are tolerant, in a spirit of mutual respect, our Ministry of Foreign Affairs solves them. And I would like them to finally have a cousin for Ukraine, Moldova, these questions are normal, just as they were tolerantly decided and proposed for approval by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the second. At the same time, there are some problems in this ministry. And these problems are related, not to the fact that its powers are transferred by the Ukrainian Presidential Authority, but to the fact that the right of nationalist power in this ministry pushes it in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u54	Thank you. Roman Zvaric, microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u55	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, I just wanted to remind you that we agreed that in cases where bills have been tabled by legislative entities by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or by the President of Ukraine, you would announce who was appointed by these institutions to present the relevant bills. And if there are differences between the designated representatives of the subject’s legislative initiative, they will not be given a word. I have full respect for Alexander Fedorovich Motsik, but I would still ask that we follow this constitutional procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, we have our positions here. Since the Prime Minister of Ukraine has authorized us to present the draft law, which we are considering, as the Deputy Secretary of State, and is now Deputy Minister of Moscow, Alexander Fedorovich. It's just that the job has changed. Well, I'm sorry, I'll do it. Gennady Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u57	I'd like to make a statement. I think I'm part of a national democratic, patriotic force. One in five, I approached the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with staff proposals. None of my proposals were taken into account by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So what I'd like to say is that there are patriots working there, regardless of their ideological views, there are lefties, by the way, we have a proposal, and I was still the minister, and at the suggestion of the Communists they appointed one ambassador, and there are centrists. And the National Patriotics weren't assigned. So I would like to protect the good name of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There's a lot of cash going on, everyone wants to run this important ministry now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? We've exchanged thoughts here, now the position of the Ministry and we'll vote. There too were questions raised by Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, Vladimir Yavorowski, and focused on this. Please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u59	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So this is really just a matter of methodology, that is, a question of how to do a job, how to put these columns, where to put them, how to do it across the border, and so on, and not determine the essence of the demarcation. The question is usually about the area where Dnistrovska GAES is located. We are negotiating with the Moldovan side on this issue. There is an oral agreement that the border post will be removed. Sadly, he has not been removed until today. Now what I'd like to say is that there's a delegation of Ukraine in Moldova after the demarcation. And one of the main issues of this delegation is to resolve the issue of the removal of the border post from Dniprovsky GES. With regard to delimitation, it was based on principles and norms of international law. And as for the border in the Dniester River area, it was determined that this border would go right through the fairway. At the same time, in the description of the passage of the border, we pointed out that the border would pass in the area, leaving the GES on the Ukrainian side. So this is a matter of negotiation that we're running. I would ask the Supreme Council to support this bill and give us the opportunity, firstly, to make the demarcation itself that is important to our country and, secondly, to solve the issue essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, we received clarification. Let's vote now. This is about the methodology, not the demarcation -- I'd like to remind us all, dear colleagues. I am voting on the approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the State border demarcation clause between Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova. Please vote. [[11:28:03]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the next question. Please, Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. Bill 1038-2 appeared incomprehensiblely on the agenda. The 8th number is registered, only today it's handed over to the people's deputies and joined the committee. There are no findings of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. The Committee has, of course, not considered and therefore has not taken decisions, so I ask that it be withdrawn from consideration, that it does not allow for a grave violation of the Rules and that it does not humiliate the people's deputies or the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u62	Alexander Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u63	Head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. I support Harry Vasil Grigorovitch's offer. Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a very important law, this is if you want a small Constitution for a man's work. And it's just not possible to submit more than 100 pages last night, one of the deputies, without consideration. I think we need to look at two Konovaluk projects and a coherent project from social partners to report Papiev, and the Hubsky project needs to be removed, discussed, concluded, and then considered. Please take this project off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Let's consult, the point is, on Monday on the Conciliation Board, this issue was raised. And in order not to delay our consideration of the bill in connection with the fact that there was a legislative initiative of the national MP, in this case, Bogdan Hubsky, we agreed that we were discussing this project and that we would then not go back to this issue again. Or we'll put off for a long time, once again, to discuss this very necessary bill. And then when we put to the vote the outcome of the discussion, then it's obvious that the Supreme Council will have to decide. Because then when we look at the two bills, we're going to have to wait until we look at Bogdan Hubsky, and then we're going to vote three at a time. Do you understand? Otherwise, we'll cut the question short. That's why they agreed to consider these bills. I would like to support this position that we need to consider these issues. Okay? Then the draft Ukrainian Labour Code is announced: Valerius Konovaluk, Mikhailo Papiev, Bogdan Hubsky; and co-reporters Vasil Hara and Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov. We need to set a time limit on this issue. So let's go, dear fellows. For the rapporteurs, five minutes to report, five minutes to answer questions. For coreporters, it is also clear that five minutes and then the rest of the time will be taken for discussion. Is there no objection? Thank you. Valerius Ilych Konovaluk, please. As the author of Bill 1038.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the day of December 10 will enter the history of our nation as a remarkable one, because it is not a coincidence, but it is definitely a sign. Today is the world’s day of human rights. The main purpose of the Labour Code is that we today consider this regulation and the protection of the rights of citizens in the field of labour. What led to the development of the Labour Code? I would like to remind the people that this bill was introduced to the Supreme Council in the past call in 2000. He worked repeatedly, we took everything we could take into account the advantages that were at the time in world experience, and we complied with the Convention of the International Labour Organization and the European Charter of Human Rights. Well, right in the early 1990s, the peak number of work-related violations was due to a change in socio-economic information. Almost all businesses applied illegal vacations without saving their wages. In most cases, it did not give in to indexation, and the release of workers in connection with a reduction in the state or volume of work was caused by a violation of existing legislation. The salary was paid almost two or three months later. Production did not comply with safety and working conditions, and injury increased. Incurring debts on wages remained high, and the rules of law governing the way employees paid their salaries were paid were not in place, and so on. Trade unions in the early 1990s were weak and unable to really protect workers, so we had evidence that some of our businesses were creating 3-5 unions. This was especially true of coal companies. In the newly created enterprises, we tended not to take into account the possibility of protecting the rights of workers. Thus, the entire system that worked for years in the workplace was virtually destroyed. The new one wasn't created. The legal basis that had been developed until then had no system, had some contradictions, and the workers were alone with their problems. I want you, my dear fellows, to give us some figures so that we can testify to the state of these problems, and how this has affected the development of our society. In the country, the standard of living is one of the lowest in Europe. About a third of our fellow countrymen live outside the poverty line. And 60 percent of those who work in different forms of property are paid below the minimum wage. The current rate of hourly wages, if currently comparable, in Ukraine is about 65 cents, while in EU countries it is 20-22 euros. I also want to remind you that over this period, the share of wages in the GDP structure has been reduced from 53 percent to 43 percent, and at its own cost, it was about 9-10 percent, which means overexploitation of labour. According to the results of last year, families whose average total cost of living was 84 percent lower than their minimum of living in Ukraine. The cost of spending between 10 percent of the most and least supported Ukrainian citizens was 23 times. The average length of the job search was 10 months. According to Minpraci, 12 million people work in the shadows — that is, they have no social security from the State. Experts in Ukraine estimate that 3 million of our fellow countrymen are working informally abroad, a fourth of which remains there forever. We only have almost a million of our citizens in Italy, 400,000 of whom are women, young women, respected colleagues. The vast majority of workers are residents of western areas of Ukraine. That's how we live with you. The main group of migrant workers is young people, 17-27 years old, half with higher education. According to an international organization, 46 percent of Ukrainian migrant workers work 12 hours a day, 1 in 4 or more. 60 percent have no permanent weekends. I want to remind you that in 1991 the Ukrainian economy was close to developed industrial countries. One of the main areas in the rule of law is labour law, which is now needed in the reform phase under the influence of socio-economic relations. This is understandable, for the very application of material and spiritual benefits is intertwined with the vital interests of various social groups. Regrettably, time is very limited by the Rules, and I would like to point out that there are three chapters, thirty - seven chapters, and four hundred and ninety - two articles in this document. General section, Special section and Special section. We took into account all the comments that were made, both by trade unions and by our employers. We were moving in the direction of really taking into account in the Labour Code all the experience that the world has now. The standards that are now being applied are clearly stated. Compared to that project that will now be reported, it is more hereditary to an active legislative base. This code is essentially more social, its understandable form is more perfect, the terms applied to the single system and., the logic and the subject matter correspond to each other, the social guarantees of the State have a higher level than the Kabmins offer. ..deploying the standard of standard of work. We leave the standards for the application of the employment book and the employment contract. We have a different view of how the contract is applied and so on. I think it's very important for us that we have already begun to consider this issue. I want to ask the National Deputies to make this a question that will be proposed now, it would have been a continuation of those procedures that will still allow us to adopt the new Labour Code and solve the whole image of today's problems that concern our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Please sign up for five minutes. Put the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Demökhin, members of the People's Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u67	Please tell me, we are currently considering more than one bill on the Labour Code. Do you think it's possible for us to unite them so that we can have a single bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u68	Thank you. I think that, indeed, the relevance of this issue requires that we today rise above personal ambitions, over desires and the opportunity to see a real solution to these issues. I am therefore confident that if the Supreme Council supports the government's proposals in this regard, the government's project, we will be able to unite our efforts, work on the second reading and make those, indeed, the advantages that are now in the draft Labour Code, which I now represent, into a joint project. And in that we're really going to get the best result. That is why I believe that we must indeed work together to have Parliament decide this tomorrow when we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u69	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u70	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Valérie Illich, would you please tell me whether your bill will protect you and we will say so, the Labour Code of those citizens who are now being forced to work 12, 14, 16 hours by new Ukrainians who are so-called? And does your bill provide for an eight - hour workday, as in all civilized nations? Say another one, please. Does your bill protect those people whom the new Ukrainians are now, so to speak, new business leaders, only one word can say in spite of something like she's out of work right now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u71	Thank you for asking. I believe that the relevance of these problems, indeed, is due to the fact that the labour situation in labour legislation today, even when it comes to legal action brought by citizens, is not always possible to protect the rights of our people. Therefore, I am sure that we are introducing new innovations that clearly define both hourly wages and eight hours' workday, and this is about 40-42 hours this week. We are proposing more mechanisms that will indeed protect and guarantee them, indeed, rights in the broad spectrum. Therefore, it is clear to us that without these changes, and we are seeing with you that over the years we have made two hundred amendments to the 276 existing code, we have changed the system by other legislation, let us say, in the field of labour so much that it has become contradictory, it has not provided full protection for the full rights of our citizens. That is why it is envisaged, and indeed, let us say, the cornerstone that is written out from the worker's point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u72	Mikhailo Rodionov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u73	Rodionov, the Communist faction. An honourable reporter, and your law, and one who is considered an alternative to your law, has so many positions that worsen the current situation, I'm here who just can't be accounted for. I want to... if I can. That's my question. How do you think that it is even contrary to the current Constitution, which states in article 22, all new laws should not make matters worse but improve?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u74	Thank you for asking. You know, in our work on the Labour Code, back in 2000, we had to deal with the norms that the Constitution required and that it should be more social. It was therefore by no means an accident that we took all the best that had been in the labour law since the time of the Soviet Union and were able to really shift the emphasis in terms of the protection of the rights of workers, in terms of their ability today to ensure, let us put it this way, the promotion of their interests. On the contrary, we are strengthening and enhancing the role of trade unions today. And we say that it is not possible at this stage to limit the transition today only to the relationship between the employee and the employer. So, in my opinion, if you've just been very familiar with the provisions of the Labour Code, you'll see it first and foremost, and that was, let's say, a priority in the drafting of this document as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u75	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u76	Alexander Pecklusenko, Zaporozhye, 84 constituency. Valery Ilic, tell me how to make your law, and I think it's our law, our faction, which really needs to improve the situation, how to keep our voters out of court? Here is a specific example for the Polovsky region. There was an enterprise that was formerly an abrasive combination. This plant paid people a salary through a foam log, took people from my voters to the Pension Fund, but didn't count for three years, three years. There was a tax office, three years old. There was the Pension Fund, nobody found it. Now my voters have been out of retirement for three years. Is it not their fault that the State should not answer?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u77	You know, I think that most of the citizens' appeals to both the Supreme Council and the courts are about violations of the rights and conditions of employment contracts. Therefore, in the Labour Code of the Labour Contract, it is written so much that it is simply, let's say, nullifying the ability of employers to ignore the terms of the employment contract today and in fact to commit a violation. I am sure that, in this regard, we have a very pressing problem in terms of today's restructuring of production, the reorganization of the enterprise, because there are a lot of depraved enterprises that are going through a certain process today. As a rule, this procedure does not involve the protection of workers'rights today, where salaries amount to six months or more. I think that it is a labour contract that will be the principal form of the relationship between employers and workers that will be flawed and that it will be clearly respected by the State in terms of legal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u78	Valérie Illich, thank you, sit down, please. Time's up. Mikhailo Papiev, Minister of Social Policy and Work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u79	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to focus on the basic principles of this bill, taking into account a limited amount of time. First what? World practice, and in all parts of the world, labour codes are developed on a tripartite basis. That is, on a tripartite basis, a group that includes representatives of trade unions, employers, and government representatives on parity grounds. Similarly, a joint working group was created, to which the representatives of trade unions, employers, governments, and scientists were equally involved. And it's this draft of the Labour Code that the government has introduced -- it's not a government bill in this, and it's a difference -- it's a bill that's done according to the rules of the international organization of work on a tripartite basis. This project balances the interests of employed workers, employers, and the State's monitoring mechanism for compliance with labour law. Our project was conducted by an expert at the International Labour Organization, where he received an approved evaluation. And I would like to emphasize once again that the work of the interdisciplinary group has always been and has always been done on a tripartite basis. In the Labour Code, we didn't take the principle that, for example, we take legislation, we take the position, and we block it into the Labour Code, and we don't. This is a completely new document, which does not narrow down or diminish the rights of employed workers, does not violate the current legislation of Ukraine. There was a question about working time. Yes, the Labour Code clearly and clearly sets an eight-hour working day, a 40-hour working week. Besides everything else, you know, there are new things that are introduced into this Labour Code, for example, defined the concept of pay. It is proposed to move away from the widespread treatment of wages as such, which includes remuneration for work, guarantees, and compensation. The term is defined as "minimum wage", which is clearly and clearly predicted that when determining the minimum wage size, no additional salary is included. There is also a standard on which the Supreme Council of Ukraine is constantly working to ensure that the tariff rate of the first class is not lower than the minimum wage. There is also a predetermined rule on the priority of paying wages to employees from the costs that are due to the employer in the bank. And there's still a lot of things that are new and that take into account the objective contexts and the changes in social and political life that have taken place in Ukraine. For example, there is also a description of the situation of small business subjects: the way in which the issue of labour legislation is dealt with. The bill consists of nine books, 429 articles. Each of these books worked separately. A huge number of seminars, field trips, were conducted. We have feedback today from employers, from professional groups. Of the 159 comments, all comments are taken into account. There were even seven principal comments from professional groups. And at the request of the All - Ukrainian Trade Unions in Kiev, consultations were held with the participation of national deputies and government, during which the principle of professional association was adopted. These meetings were attended by the People's Deputies of Stoyan, the National Deputy of Hara, and were attended by the Government's Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco, Minister of Papiev. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is made in accordance with all the requirements of international law. It takes into account those conventions of the International Labour Organization that have been ratified by Ukraine. Once again, it's a balance sheet, i.e. it's balanced across all sides of the social partnership. In doing so, the rights of employed workers have not been narrowed down by the legislation of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, please sign up for a question to the minister. On the board, please. Yes, Alexander Stoyan, faction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u81	Alexander Stoyan, head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Mikhailovich, you know that the unions have actually participated from the very stage in the development, but at the final stage, a number of trade unions' proposals to protect the interests of workers have been removed. And that's why we had to -- the Ukrainian trades, I mean. Federation to gather and make a statement. To the honor of the government yesterday, after my meeting with the Prime Minister, whom I passed on the demands, a meeting was held yesterday, which you said was where we identified the seven principal positions that the union insists on to be included in the draft Labour Code. I would like you to confirm once again that there is such a protocol signed where the government has committed itself with the members of the Hare, Stoyan, trade unions and the government to bring six fundamental positions into the Labour Code. On our 7th proposal, we have to discuss it. If you confirm again, then I can withdraw my alternative draft decision tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I reaffirm and repeat. Here is the minutes of all signatures, i.e. the minutes of the meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, where it is signed that, at the request of the All-Ukrainian Trade Unions in Kiev in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, consultations were held on the participation of representatives of the parties who reached the basic agreement of professional associations. Six points apart from one that needs further advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u83	Leonid Vernigora, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u84	Leonid Vernigore, Socialist faction. Well, unlike Mr. Stoyan, I'm not asking what the government signed, so that's what it needs to believe. He signed it and 237 went out 205 and another. Here's what I want to ask you. When rumors came in Spain last year that would be cut short without workers’ unions, 19 million people were brought to the streets of Spain. I don't think Stoyan's going to make it 19, let's make 10 work out how much they have. So I would like you, and your previous reporter, to make a very meaningful reference to international conventions. I read carefully. There, I'll tell you, half disagrees with international labour conventions. So how are we going to regulate? It's either agreements with the government, right, or in the legislature of ours? Mikhail Mikolaiovich, I'm asking you specifically how much you disagree with the International Labour Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Leonide Mikhailovich! You know that this bill was sent to the International Labour Organization. Now there's an expert conclusion, and I have it in my hands, where it is clearly and clearly stated that there is no draft Labour Code that contradicts the conventions of the International Labour Organization that have been ratified by Ukraine. Here's a document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u86	Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u87	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, I'm worried about how much it's consistent with international legislation and in general with the Constitution on pregnant women and women who have children under the age of 3 or a disabled child. And they can be relieved of their jobs on the basis of failure or improperly fulfilling their duties. What is the improper performance of your duties when you are a disabled child, and your mother may be late for work? Is this an improper performance? That's why we have to get rid of it. I don't know, it doesn't just conform to the laws of morality, not that there are international or other conventions that have ratified or not ratified Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u88	Thank you for asking. By the way, it was just in the discrepancy protocol that article that was taken yesterday during the negotiations. But I would like to bring to your knowledge that the proposed standard that was in the project is now agreed that we are simply removing it for information. It met the standards of the eighth European Social Charter. In addition to this, it is noted that article 8, paragraph 2, is not interpreted as a definite prohibition. Exceptions to the release of this category of women may be made in the following cases: ( a) When a working woman is guilty of improper conduct that justifies the termination of a contract of employment; ( b) when an appropriate enterprise ceases its activity. So it's not a violation, but we agreed that in order to increase the social status of women who are pregnant, women who have children under three years of age, women who have children with disabilities. So that the rule of banning their release is preserved in the Labour Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u89	Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u90	Respected Mikhail Nikolaevich, under the Trade Unions Act, their rights and guarantees of their activities, and also article 45 of the current KZOT, trade unions have the right to require the owner of the exemption from the position of head of the enterprise if he violates the labour law and collective agreements and agreements. Here's a question. Why has this rule been removed in the legislative draft?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u91	The thing is that this is another point that we considered at the meeting yesterday and we came to understand that this point should be left behind because it is already provided for in the law, that is, this rule remains in this draft Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u92	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we've been here for 12 hours. Then let's take a break, and the Chief of the Regulatory Committee says we should take a break. Break to 12:30 is announced. We're not gonna make it and then we're gonna break up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u93	Colleagues, we continue our meetings, we continue our consideration of the draft Ukrainian Labour Code. The bill is presented by the People’s Deputy of Hubsky. Please, Bogdan Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u94	Reverend Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The purpose of the bill is to establish the only standards for the use of employment, the protection of rights and freedoms in the field of work, social justice and economic progress. During the drafting of the bill, almost all the comments and suggestions of the International Labour Organization were taken into account. In particular, the proposed bill does not narrow or simplify existing labour law, but rather develops it according to the requirements of the European Union and the International Labour Organization is more flexible. Allows employers and employees to choose their own conditions and rules of employment. The project preserves the position of current legislation on protection of rights, rights, stressing the employment of an employee and offers specific mechanisms to guarantee non-discrimination. The full burden of proof that there is no discriminatory motive for the employee rests on the employer. The bill is more direct and contains much less reference to what standards should be developed in the future. It also defines the basic principles of the International Labour Organization regarding freedom of work, the minimum age of employment. The project identifies the mutual responsibilities of workers and employers in working relationships, guarantees during their implementation, stresses the protective role of the trade union in the implementation of these guarantees. A number of definitions have also been formulated regarding the essential working conditions and characteristics of working conditions, such as harmful and dangerous, special natural geographical and geological conditions of work, high - risk conditions for health, difficulty and stress, the traveling nature of work, conditions of the field, and so on. Special sections of the bill also regulate procedures relating to the determination of work experience and calculation in all cases, the participation of workers in social insurance, all kinds of material security and social services. For the first time, I emphasize, it is suggested that the granting of guarantees and compensations for the legislative restriction of the labour rights of workers; the rights of individual categories of workers who are temporarily abroad in connection with the fulfilment of their labour obligations and the order of their repatriation; the prohibition on the use of work at work at work with harmful and dangerous working conditions beyond the maximum permissible standards. In addition to training, retraining, and improving the skills of workers, standards have also been put in place to regulate the order and means of professional careers. The very prospect of pursuing a professional career, from our point of view, is a significant sign of job choice for most young people between the ages of 20 and 35. In addition to the constitutional right of each person to appeal to the court for the consideration of individual labour disputes, the project is also proposed, in our view, more democratic and more effective in relation to the fact that legislation is said to be the mechanism for the possible judicial solution of such disputes. In terms of collective relations, our project pays more attention to the harmonization of forms of social partnership to collective bargaining or consultation procedures and to the resolution of disputes that may arise. With regard to State oversight and enforcement of labour legislation, it is suggested that there should be a more clear procedure for checking only in the following three cases. The first is the plan. Not more than once every three years in accordance with the established schedule agreed with other inspection bodies and bodies. The second is pre-planned, with a warning from the employer. If there are complaints or appeals about labour rights violations or labour law requirements. And the third is pre-planned, without warning the employer when there is reason to believe that forced labor is being used. That's short. So, honourable national MPs, we believe that not all of these are, unfortunately, because of the lack of time, the advantages of this bill provide a basis for its support. I thank you for your attention and would like to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u95	I see those who want to ask questions. Let's sign up. Please explain. Five minutes. I'm glad you're following him, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u96	Dear colleague, please tell me, during the drafting of this bill, how did you, as the author, take a position on the fundamental elements of this bill as seen by trade unions? This is one participant in employment relations. And second, how does the Federation of Employers see it as another participant in labour relations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u97	Thank you for asking. That's right and that's right. In the drafting of the bill, a number of existing standards have been taken into account, say, such as those applicable to trade unions and employers. According to the standards that are now laid down in the proposed bill, in our view, there are no basic provisions that conflict primarily with the views of hired workers. That's our point of view. From our point of view, trade unions, of course, primarily protect the position of hired workers, it is also understandable, and it is objective, and worldwide, it is a normal practice. On the other hand, the International Labour Organization’s observations were practically taken into account in the drafting of the bill. And you won't find such an observation or some sort of principled position in particular of the same respectable organization that protects the rights of hired workers that are not included in this bill. And that's why we think that from the point of view of organizations that protect workers, who generally protect the relationship between hired workers and employers, we don't see, as they say, any conflict situations here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u98	Please, Cherniak, follow him, Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u99	Dear Bogdan Volodymyrovich! Three drafts of the Labour Code have been submitted. What are the essentials, the principles of the differences between them, especially your bill, and others? This is the first time. It's different. After all, why are there three bills? He submitted the government and presented two representatives of the governing majority. If the opposition were to be filed, that would be logical, and then for what, three bills, we're wasting time when we could agree on a bill from the government and most of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u100	I thank you for asking, it is fair, timely and very right. I wouldn't want to, you know, analyze three bills now and, of course, I think we as authors think our bill is the best. But it probably wouldn't be ethical, from our point of view, to compare norms and to say that we have this standard better written, in a governmental or a parliamentary friend worse. It's probably your right as a national MP to determine. Regarding the adoption procedure. First. As far as I know, the Konovaluka Bill has been in the works for many years, and virtually in 2000 Valérie Illich gave his concept and therefore, as they say, he had the right to file the issue of justice. So every national MP has the right to submit his own bill, we can't limit the rights of us, and of another group, and of any kind. I think your question is more about the government project, why? A government bill has been tabled and there are national MPs' projects in parallel. I'm going to tell you right now that the government, when submitting its bill to the People's Government MP group, did not address this issue, unfortunately. And I don't rule out that if the government were to go to the People's Authority MP group, especially by discussing the project they submitted, before it was submitted, we would have made our comments. If they were counted, we probably wouldn't have submitted our project. But the government, the appropriate ministries, passed a bill. We believe that it has a number of shortcomings that are said to be unaccounted for. And that's why we tabled our bill, which makes it more precise than the government's. I understand very well what can happen when none of the bills pass. But from our point of view, this is the advice of the government and those government officials who prepared this bill, that such important laws would probably want to go through, particularly in the factions of the majority, to agree, to listen to comments, to take them into account -- and then to submit with our observations. And then maybe these colossals were removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u101	Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u102	Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u103	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Please tell the honourable reporter: What was the norm of international law or practice that you were guided by, that is, the drafters of the bill when they proposed article 153 of your draft code to prohibit the employee, or to break the employee’s employment relationship for a period of his participation in the strike? Is this not a direct pressure, political, economic, psychological, on a worker? That's the first question. And the second. Please give an answer. In article 73, you're noting, or noting, more faithfully, that we're celebrating today on May 1st and 2nd. In your draft code, citizens are denied the right to celebrate on May 2, which is the same article of the Ukrainian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u104	Thank you for asking. First. Article 153, "Restraint of Labour Relations". Indeed, it is written that employment relations are halted at the time of a legal strike if the employee participates in such a strike, as provided for in the Law of Ukraine. It's a fairly controversial question, but it was meant to be at the exact time of this legal strike. That doesn't mean he's broken up with any relationship, and after this strike, he won't be back at work. Of course, it's a question of discussion, it's important, and we don't want to say that all the standards that are written are just that. Of course, there may be discussions and, in particular, this situation may change as well as many others. So we expressed our point of view. But this can be discussed. It's May 1-2. Well, of course, no one's proposing to change the Constitution by law. It's impossible to change the Constitution by adopting any law, including this. So I wouldn't want to be accused of wanting to make changes to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u105	Thank you, Bogdan Vladimirovich. Have a seat, please. We have two committee heads reporting. First of all, it's about social policy and Hara Vasil Georgievic. Behind him is Yehanurov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Social Policy and Labour of the Supreme Council has considered two draft Labour Codes. [[Registration No. 1038 of the People's Deputy of Konovaluka and 1038-1 of the Cabinet of Ministers]] The Committee noted many positive developments in the Konovaluka project and recommended that they be included in part two of the draft Labour Code of the Cabinet of Ministers. The Committee also noted that it was Konovaluk who had actively encouraged the Cabinet of Ministers to expedite the work on its own project and its work in the Supreme Council for consideration. The Committee supported the draft Labour Code of the Cabinet of Ministers, since it was more systematic, more consistent with the codified document, the ILO Conventions, international law and was developed under the auspices of the International Labour Organization on a tripartite basis by entities of social partnership. As with any comprehensive labour law document that should reflect the balance of interests of the three sides of social and labour relations, the State, trade unions and employers was not easy. The Committee initiated a three-party meeting to remove tensions between them, and held a round table with Mintrub to present the Labour Code in the Supreme Council. The consultations took place until last night. That's what we're talking about. Dear colleagues! Since there will be sufficient criticism in the statements of the people's deputies, I will focus mainly on positive points. The draft Labour Code of the Cabinet of Ministers 1038-1 consists of nine books, 33 chapters, 429 articles. It is in line with the rules of the new Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine, the Labour Protection Act, the Vacation Act of Ukraine, the Wages Act, and the Labour Code, which are part of the Labour Code, and must in fact cease their acts as separate laws. It is intended to repeal six laws on social and labour relations, and it is also the order of the Cabinet to prepare a list of legislation that must be no longer in force in order not to discriminate in labour law or in contravention of the provisions of the Labour Code. In short, legislation on social and labour relations should become more uniform, consistent with international norms and rights. As strange as it may seem, many of the provisions of the draft Labour Code have greatly enhanced the social security and security of workers as compared to the current KZOT, which we have made very many and very often in the next 10 years. I'll just name some of them. The use of employment in civil forms: contracts, civil contracts that do not guarantee the rights and interests of workers today. In the draft Labour Code, article 105 is likened to the work of individuals and is classified under general rules as workers. This brings hundreds of thousands of workers back to work in the protection of labour law, who are now performing civilian labour contracts and who are even deprived of their right to work. Much clearer than before, the scope of the Labour Code has been defined, including its extension to foreign workers and employers. [[Articles 7 to 11]] [[Article 12-14]] Provision is included for the adaptation of Ukrainian labour legislation to the European Social Charter and other international instruments, the general declaration of human rights, the international Covenant on Economic and Social Cultural Rights, the ILO conventions and recommendations. [[Revised article 2]] Prohibition of discrimination in the field of labour and forced labour. Importantly, in order to eliminate violations of the interests of workers in the elimination of legal persons and the creation of new legal persons on the basis of them, for the first time, the rules on the successor of labour relations have been established. In the light of the requirements of article 3 of the Ukrainian Constitution and international legal acts, it is incumbent upon employers to respect the employee's honour and dignity. The fulfilment of these obligations is article 404 to ensure that the moral damage of workers is compensated. Written form of employment contract. a binding and binding instrument shall be given the authority of a full legal act which shall not be allowed to go beyond. This removes the issue of the right of employers to a unilateral decision, the movement of workers and the change of working conditions. However, the Labour Code cannot be idealized - it has a number of shortcomings, which I am convinced we will determine in the second reading procedure the fate of the laws on contracts and agreements, on labour protection, on collective labour disputes, which have not entered, as planned, into the Labour Code initially, to be a single instrument governing labour relations. Thirdly, the Committee will do its utmost to ensure that the provisions of the Labour Code are rules of direct action rather than reference. In the event of shortcomings, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour considers that the draft Labour Code meets the requirements of a new codified act in the field of labour relations regulation, with the aim of defining the main measures for the implementation of the labour rights and guarantees provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, creating appropriate working conditions and ensuring the protection of the interests of workers and employers. Please support the Committee's decision and adopt the Labour Code - draft 1038-1 on first reading. With regard to the best that is in the bills of Konovaluka and Gubski, introduce the Kabminov draft for second reading. Please support the decision of the relevant committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u107	Thank you. Please give the floor to the report of the Head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Yuri Ivanovich. And, dear colleagues, you know that according to the Rules we have 45 minutes to consider the matter. We have another reporter, and he's only got 45 seconds left. So please, 5 minutes Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u108	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The need for the adoption of the Labour Code is one of the main points. As we reformed labour legislation, we were five years late. Today it is not always able to ensure a proper level of regulation of employment under new socio-economic conditions. March adjustments also failed to solve existing problems, primarily because they were designed primarily to protect workers’ labour rights without taking into account the new labour rights of employers and entrepreneurs who bear the brunt of social responsibility under market economy conditions. The imbalance of interests has significantly reduced the effectiveness of legislative norms. Both employers, yes, I would stress, were forced to look for informal ways to use the workforce. I would like to thank all the authors for their first attempt in the legislative order to establish a mutually acceptable balance of interests that correspond to the expectations of both sides of the labour force. That is why the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, after considering the issue at its meeting, proposes to support the adoption of the Labour Code as drafted by the Council of Social Partnerships, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, registration number 1038-1 on a basis. In our view, in this way we will confirm the need to introduce new approaches to regulating labour relations and to conform to the structure of the proposed code to the need to solve the problems in this area. In particular, I would like to point out that this approach was determined at the round table of our committee, which discussed the joint position of entrepreneurs and employers on the draft Labour Code. From the employer’s point of view, the development and adoption of the Labour Code is only the beginning of a reform of labour legislation that will ensure legal stability in the field of labour relations. Codex standards should contribute to a stable economic growth of enterprises. To do this, they must provide every employer and entrepreneur with the ability to respond quickly and flexibly to economic changes regardless of the form of ownership. The social orientation of labour law cannot be expressed in securing the interests of only one party to labour law. First of all, because it is the employer and the entrepreneur who is the party that, thanks to its entrepreneurship, assumes the main responsibility, including the financial burden of social responsibility. And secondly, this orientation is going into conflict with other laws, primarily with laws on property and business. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, according to previous expert conclusions, for example, the introduction of new forms of labour law in relation to the employer’s payment of moral damage to an employee at an average salary of 445 dollars per employee, this will cost the employer about 20,000 dollars. Yet, despite the many observations, even at the international experts' assessment that this project is somewhere between the past and the future, it is still necessary to accept it. Employers and entrepreneurs are ready to work together constructively with trade unions and the government to prepare the project for second reading. Dear colleagues, given the stated and complexity of the legal and regulatory solution to the problems of balancing the conflicting interests of workers and employers, our committee is proposing. First. Assigning second reading to two committees -- social policy and work and industrial policy and entrepreneurship. In this regard, I would like to support the draft regulation, registration number 1038-1.2, introduced by the National Deputies of our Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Secondly, since the project is very important for both employers and entrepreneurs and for workers, and it has nine books, we have to give it time, no less than six months for its careful development. It may be worth predicting in a step - by - step way the individual acceptance books of the second reading. This is a kind of labor constitution. At this time, our Supreme Council is to become a kind of bargaining ground between business representatives, hired workers and the government, with a wide participation of public organizations. Dear National Deputies! We are all, in a sense, hired workers who have been entrusted with urgent matters by our voters. Please support the bill introduced by the government and protect the interests of both employees and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u109	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Have a seat. Yes, what are we going to do? We've already spent 50 minutes. Let's take 10 minutes to talk more. Ten minutes, fellows of honor! [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Anatolyovich, I ask you not to answer the question. I'm going to put your proposal to the vote now, and you're going to see what it's going to be. So let's make a deal. Mine doesn't have to be put to the vote because we have 45 minutes under the Rules, we've used 51 minutes. So let's keep it quiet for 10 minutes. Those who speak, please, within two minutes, if you please. Then he'll do more. Please, Puzakov, follow him Karmazin. Out of procedure, please, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u110	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko Adam Ivanovich, you were the initiator of the debate and the vote in one day. Your decision was postponed several times. Perhaps that is why she was put on hold to enforce lobbyist laws. I'm not talking about today's law, the code, but tell me, do we have the Legal Department, the scientific and expert office? They probably didn't shorten them. Why, Adam Ivanovich, during this week and the previous two deputies, do they not draw conclusions? So today I'd like to see what the conclusions of the scientific and expert administration are one by one, the other and the third law? Why aren't they handing them over to the deputies? Is this to make lobbyist laws pass faster, jump faster? So the MPs don't know the details? So that we can compare, I'm asking you to get the secretariat to redistribute these conclusions systematically with the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u111	Thank you, come on. standing on the podium of Puzakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u112	The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The city of Kirov. The proposed project is of no particular joy, for, as the electorate has already called it, the “code without honor”. First of all, the project has been copied from the West and is oriented towards the laws of the West, but unless, in the current state of the domestic labour market, it can be equal to wages, pensions, to make such a sharp crease from the state regulation of labour relations on the side of the contract. With high unemployment rates, the poverty of most of the population can lead to the sole conclusion of bonded employment contracts. For example, I quote: paragraph 1, article 25 of the draft, which refers to the definition of the term “worker”. An employee is a natural person who has entered into a working relationship by taking on the responsibility of using his employment in the interests of his employer under his direction and control. In addition to this rule of article 28, a worker’s obligation not to disclose a commercial secret and article 29 to keep his job as a competitive employer and so forth. Who, then, does the employee become a slave? What about article 43 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantees everyone the right to work that he freely chooses? In general, the project contains a range of norms that conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and current legislation, especially that the project has balanced the rights and interests of the social workers. Let me give you just a few examples. Article 26 of the draft, which deals with basic workers’ rights, regulates the right to pay for work. Where did the draft Constitution divide the right to pay not less than the prescribed law? Even now that the standard exists in labour legislation, in the Kirovograd region, in October of this year almost 20 percent of workers received salaries of less than 185 dollars. Where is the State’s guarantee? Most of all, I would like to know the author of article 286, who gives the employer the right to release pregnant women or women who have children under the age of 3 or a disabled child. Dear colleagues, indeed, a pregnant woman or one who has a young child, cannot keep up with the standards of production. But look, on the other hand, we had about 7,000 children in the area in nine months of this year, but 15,000 people died. Natural population reductions during this period are observed in all areas of the region. Young people still don't want to have children, and we're going to start attacking pregnant women. And if this article, as Minister Papiev said, has been ruled out, it is good. We need to take very seriously the fact that the project has virtually erased the role of trade unions, even though the State has declared them representatives and advocates of the rights and interests of hired workers and has given them certain guarantees to carry out its activities. I believe that under the legal nihilism prevailing in the State regarding employed workers, weakening their legal protection through trade unions is unacceptable. I mean, we don't have to be hasty about adopting the draft Labour Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u113	Thank you. But we were talking about two minutes, and you were talking about four minutes. Please, Karmazin. He's behind him, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u114	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's Electoral Block "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, I want to understand what's going on. So now I've taken these projects of yours and I'm showing you how much forest you've destroyed right now. So we have 3 projects from most of them. One is from Konovaluk, that's most, "Regions," one is from Hubsky, and that's also the majority that only yesterday was filed, so I don't know who can write an expert opinion on it. No one can write it, it shouldn't be discussed at all. We had no right to do so under the Rules. Yes, and.. passed the committee. And the third of the coalition government was created by these same factions. Ladies and gentlemen! So what's going on? Do you not trust your government that has prepared a project based on the International Labour Organization? So you put the order in your majority and take the time to discuss the projects. Do you understand? And now let's see, because I wanted to see my colleague Konovaluk speak -- I respect him very much -- I wanted to cry and he felt sorry for our working people. But I looked, now I've raised how he voted in favour of lowering the minimum wage. It turns out I voted. It turns out to be a vote, it's written down. And none of those 235 members of the presidential majority who then pressed the buttons have at all the right to speak morally today about what they want to do to protect the people and to normalize it. With regard to the attack on the rights of citizens who are now in the codex and who are on the move. The government project, and the Konovaluka project, and the Hubsky project, are on the move. Fewer of them, not surprisingly, are coming up with a government project. For example, in Konovaluka. It narrows down the following rights: the possibility of transferring a worker to another job without his consent without preventing the simpleness and the occurrence of destruction or damage to property; and the extension of the grounds for release. That's it! A narrow guarantee of another job’s proposals, which is required only when the number is reduced. Next. The concept of "owner of property" is uncertain, since it does not refer to labour rights subjects. Obviously the owner is something else. What's the government project doing? The government project significantly reduces the rights that we have granted to professional associations under the Ukrainian Professional Association Act. And I think it is. What's going on in the negotiation process right now is that it's not very serious, because it's not on the project yet. Give it to the project in writing, according to Janukovich's signature. Then I can still believe it, even though I don't believe Janukovich for a long time. Now, Mr. Papiev, I'd believe you, at least give me your signature. As a result of the narrowing of the scope of the rights of workers, there is a balance between the rights and interests of workers. Employers receive numerous new rights and employees lose existing rights and powers. So you can work on a government bill, either on a rereading of the first reading or whatever. As for other bills, I don't think you can accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u116	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I would like to point out, first of all, that there is a lot of discussion about whether or not to adopt the Labour Code. This has to be noted, this has to be kept in mind, for it gives the impression that everyone clearly believes that this Labour Code, indeed, of the nine books of colossal design, has been adopted already and immediately. There is a discussion, and so talking about the conclusion of this discussion would be wrong. How much expertise can be done in many international structures, but it should not be forgotten that for someone to grieve, and for someone to be happy in Ukraine to have the Constitution, and there is an article on 22nd, which clearly states that the following laws cannot make things worse for people's rights and capabilities. Similarly, we can take government law 1038-1, which provides for the right to strike as a last resort. I mean, like last resort. Labour and social rights and interests. And this proposed position may lead to a violation of the constitutional right of citizens to strike, such as one of the measures taken to fight for their rights, the right of the labour force and the restoration of the employee after the strike at work, and so forth. So people's ability to protect their rights is being reduced. Actually, what are trade unions? Trade is not a structure that nods when workers' rights are violated. Trade is not a structure that distributes benefits and travel. Trade unions are a structure capable of organizing workers to protect their rights. First of all, it's putting people on strike. Yes, it's one of the measures, it's not a last resort. There are whole areas, targets. And manufacturing, where there are no strikes, is true, but there are trade unions. But what about the workers, the people who make practically a lion's share of the gross national product. What about those whose rights have been violated? How can they protest? Don't go to work? Or go outside and bring out all those who are willing to defend their rights in protest. And this right over here is compromised. So I don't even want to stop at whether it's worth supporting or not to support a government bill. We don't have to rush straight and square. A government project needs to be put off and allowed to work and really get involved in the discussion. After first reading, such fundamental things will be very difficult to correct when we adopt the concept of the law. And we need to change the concept of the law. And that's why I'm stressing once again that we're going to adopt this Labour Code too early. Yes, changes are necessary, but these changes should be productive, constructive, and those that do not reduce, narrow down, but increase the ability to protect workers, workers, and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've had a few moments of discussion. First. I am responding to the comments of the People's Deputy Kirilczuk. Eugene Ivanovich, there are two drafts for the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority. They're given away. They were given away a long time ago. I repeat: the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority for two bills are government and Konovaluka. There are no conclusions about the Hubsky bill, because you know that the situation is that it was recently submitted. In order for us not to spend time with you, we discussed them today. There were lines. Konovaluk, please come up and now you'll get the word for it. Then there's Stoyan. Have you found out? All right, Stoyan, please. Stoyan, Migovich, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u118	Alexander Stoyan, Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Thank you, fellow national MPs, for the position in your speeches that the unions are really representing the interests of the workers. Adam Ivanovich, I want to say that really, the Labour Code is a small constitution of socio-working relationships, it affects 21 million workers. So the unions looked so hard at him and not only looked at him. We were involved in drafting this bill. More than 100 of our proposals are taken into account, but several basic positions are not taken into account. I'd like to sound them, it'll take a little time, but so people know what it's about. Trade unions strongly insist on the reproduction of such rights in the Labour Code. First, the order of dismissal of an employee by an elected body of a primary professional organization. Second, the right of a professional authority to impose a requirement on the owner to terminate a contract with the managers of the enterprise. Third, the exercise of public control over the enforcement of labour law and labour protection. These positions are reflected in the laws in force today. Next. Ukrainian trade unions, and the requirement signed by 60 trade unions, insist that such discriminatory labour standards be excluded from the bill. First, the ban on a competitive enterprise. The second is the employer’s establishment of additional requirements for workers who are not defined by legislation. Third, an increase in the probation period for workers. Fourth, the establishment of working conditions for workers who are employed in small businesses. And the fifth, the expansion of the grounds for the dismissal of pregnant women and women who have children under the age of three, or a disabled child. These were our principles of position, which are set out in a letter to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I gave these addresses on behalf of the trade unions. After that, there was an appointment for Deputy Prime Minister Tobacco and Chief of Staff Papievo to meet where we were together. And then a protocol was born, which today was demonstrated by the minister of the work of Papieuve. All our suggestions, all our requirements will be taken into account in the second reading. In any case, there is a record of such assurance. So we have every reason to base our first reading on the bill that Papiev reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u119	Thank you. Migovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u120	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ivan Mihovich, the Communist faction, the Carpathians. Respectful colleagues and voters, the Labour Codex, expect hardworking and unemployed, veterans, and young people in all regions, especially in depressed Zakarpat. Yet they do not need a code that narrows even existing rights. That is the opinion of the general public and our region. Please attach to the meeting materials a resolution of the professional asset area where this is all specifically said. In general, we need to go back to redrafting and reprinting. It is a pity that such an associational, anti-national Labour Code stands for a minister who represents the SDPU, who has long been in bondage and exploiting the Carpathians, and now is in expansion against the laborers of all regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u121	Yes, the question is complete. The vote will be decided when we are. Papiev, please. Procedure, we're done here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I would like to stress once again on one nuance, but it is principled. The point is that this bill was introduced by the government, but the bill is written by a working group on a tripartite basis, which is not a purely government bill. This is a bill that has been drafted on terms of compromise and agreement between the three sides of the social partnership -- trade unions, employers and the government. All the comments made in this project are supported by the government, and they will be taken into account in the second reading. And also those positive points that are in the bills of the People's Deputies of Konovaluk and the People's Deputies of Hubsky will also be taken into account. I would like to support a bill based on a tripartite basis. This is an international practice. Nowhere in the world has the original Labour Code been adopted. The Labour Code should be based on the principles of the International Labour Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u123	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've been with you for 25 minutes. We can discuss this endlessly. Those who want out of the procedure, for reasons, we will vote, and before the vote you will take out of the procedure, for reasons. We don't have a vote now, we're done. We will determine when it will stand in the agenda for the vote. There is a question — the draft law on associations and other voluntary associations of local self - government bodies, registration number 3771. Reported by the national deputy Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, your view is suggested by the law on associations and other voluntary associations of local governments. More recently, last Sunday, Ukraine celebrated the Day of Local Self - Rule, and I am sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u125	Yuri Bogdanovich, will you have three minutes or five?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u126	I don't know.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u127	Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u128	There were 10 under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u129	Five minutes, please. We put five on the codex. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u130	This is from the occasion of a celebration of local self - government and a bill dedicated to resolving some problems of local self - government. There is a shortage of time in the Supreme Council. Then, in the absence of time, I move on to the specific provisions of this bill. Associations of local self-government bodies, provided for in article 15 of the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. However, no legal act of Ukraine determines the status of these associations. This creates considerable problems and often provokes, provokes the treatment of these associations at the same level as citizens’ associations, particularly with public organizations. Yet, by their very nature, the subjects of this union are neither natural persons nor citizens. These are public authorities according to the fifth article of the Constitution of Ukraine. And since the status of such associations is not regulated, since their powers and rights are not defined by law, there are great problems in the activities of these associations. At the same time, they demonstrated their social significance and role. In addition, there is a vast world experience of such associations, their positive impact on the development of local self - government in the respective countries and their refusal to do so do not require us in Ukraine. In this regard, the proposed bill, developed by a team of experts representing the Association of Ukrainian Cities, the Association of Rural, Rural and Urban Councils, and our committee is actually trying to solve the problem. I will not, in the absence of time, point out the basics of this bill. The only thing I want to emphasize is, yes, there's a lot of comments to it, but they're all separate, and so on, not principled. In particular, I can agree with some of the comments made by the Science and Technology Administration or, say, the Ministry of Finance. Although I would like to point out that no additional funds from the budget, government or local, do not require the introduction of this law. Local self - government associations exist and work today within the framework of current legislation, financial. At the same time, I cannot agree with some comments that claim that this bill seems to be contrary to the Constitution. Of course, it does not conflict. And article 140 of the Constitution, which is referred to in some way by the First Vice-Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov, in his conclusion, does not contain a list of the constituents of the local self-government system. Among other things, it is clear that associations of local self - government authorities cannot at all contradict local self - government in Ukraine. So it's also about what powers these associations can have. I would like to emphasize that the bill provides for the possibility of giving them purely non-governmental powers, perhaps they should be described more clearly in the bill. But I'm going to give an example of whether a village council can, by its own strength, by its own power of the country's head, which alone exercises these powers, develop a program for the development of the territory. And is it appropriate to pass on, for example, this is an association of rural councils that can involve relevant professionals and take advantage of the experience of other regions of Ukraine and the world experience. Here is an example of the authority that today belongs to the village council and can be passed on to the association. And one more moment, I want to pay attention. Of course, there is a problem of association with the status of the country. The bill proposes a solution whereby an association with U.S. status automatically represents all relevant types of self - government. However, they may have active membership when they have shown a desire to work in this association and may have passive, or partial, membership, if they have not shown such a desire, yet their interests are similar to those of other similar bodies. That is why this question may also need to be further developed into second reading. In general, I would like to stress that the bill is aimed at solving a problem that is not regulated today. He is obliged to grant the status of associations to local self - government authorities, a legal status that must be clearly different from the authorities themselves, for it is not an organ of authority, nor is it an association of citizens, for it is not a union of citizens. So there is a proposal from our committee, and I am grateful that the committee has supported it. And I'm asking the Supreme Council to support this bill, so that in preparing for the second reading, obviously its text should be improved by your suggestions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u131	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Yeah, one question, two. Please log in. The fox's hands! Please explain. Five minutes. Calinchuk. He's behind him, Hinzburg.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Yuri Bogdanovich. Kalinczuk, Odeščina, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party Of course, the bill is designed to implement the Ukrainian Law on Local Self - Rule. He's needed. But I'm curious. The project states that local governments can delegate on a contractual basis to associations, other voluntary unifications of local self - government bodies, individual powers. [[this article 28]] As a result, funds from the State Budget and so forth, from local budgets, will also come to the association. So what you think is, isn't there something here that won't be able to control how they're used in the State Budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u133	Thank you so much for asking. I want to emphasize once again, firstly, the bill speaks not only of its own powers, but of its own incoherent, or imperative powers. Clearly, no authority to make binding decisions can be passed on to such associations. Rather, the development of recommendations. On the other hand, whether or not the funds will be passed on to them. You know, if local self - control costs were not passed on to individual businesses today, maybe there was a problem. But it is clear that the responsibility for funds transferred to associations will be borne by the appropriate authorities of local self - government. And they will be transmitted solely on the basis of decisions made by the representative bodies of the respective local councils. Thus, control can and should be exercised both by local authorities and by appropriate government authorities. And I don't see any warnings in that.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u134	Please, Hinzburg. Behind her, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u135	Dear Yuri Bogdanovich! The Communist faction, Hinzburg. Please tell me you've drafted this bill. I'd like to understand why he's so interesting to you. Are you political goals here, entrepreneurial goals or something? Because if it's entrepreneurial, then I get it. But political goals, then I want to understand. Anyway, if we were to create an association for this purpose, it's still the higher administration of the area or the whole of Ukraine has to intervene and it can influence all actions. Is that not the case with your law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u136	First of all, a very unexpected question. It comes out of the presumption that all bills tabled by MPs necessarily pursue personal gain. I hope that's not the case in most cases. In this case, it has to do with the circle of my professional interests, because I am already working in the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government and working closely with our committee and I personally with associations such as the Association of Cities of Ukraine, the Association of Rural, Rural Councils, the Congress of Regional and Local Authorities in Ukraine, and I know the problems of their status, which often prevent them from exercising the powers given to them by the authorities that created them. So that's why we've developed this bill with them, which is called on to give the legal basis of existence to such associations. Therefore, my personal, as it were, has no beneficial interest in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u137	There's no need for discussion. Please, Hiccup. After him, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u138	So, the target is one. Today, such associations do not have a legal basis. In addition to mentioning the Law on Local Self-Government, they no longer have any legislative regulations. This bill is called upon to give them such legislative order. This is the basis on which they will act. These are the limits that will be established by law for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u139	Vitaly Yakovich, I'll give you 26 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u140	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Yuri Bogdanovich, we're living in an age where everything has to be paid for. You're saying that no burden by creating these associations will the budget survive. But every union of citizens, including the association, should have a state, have a secretary, have some paper expenses, and so forth. And even if they're going to develop something, like you said here, you have to pay for it, too. I mean, I don't fully understand your optimism that the state budget is not going to suffer from this. That's the first one. And the second. Come on, God is helping you, we will adopt this law, but then there is the law, but there is no corresponding in article 140 of the Constitution of Ukraine. How, then, can those or other authorities count on what this association does? They can refer to the Constitution and say, "Oh, no, it's an organization, we can't at all consider it appropriate to count with them," and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u141	Thank you. I'll answer both your questions. First. New expenses that do not exist today are not foreseen by law. All the associations that are referred to in this law actually exist today and function at a certain cost. These costs, they involve the contributions of the organs that are their members. These bodies do not contribute from the budget. Thus, additional expenses, since this law does not provide for the creation of new associations, but merely normalizes the existence of present ones and even dissipates their merger and entrenching, so new expenditure, and more from the state budget, will not be needed. Because, once again, this is an association of local governments and the State Budget does not fund them at all. With regard to the second, article 140 of the Constitution lists the authorities of local self - government, or organs authorized to make mandatory decisions that are binding and provided by the entire system of coercion of the State. Obviously, associations of local governments do not apply to such authorities and cannot be authorized to make binding decisions. So there are no contradictions to the 140th article of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u142	Please, dear.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u143	Dear Yuri Bogdanović, I am absolutely in solidarity with your position and your experience of working with these associations, and I also have a certain amount of involvement with the congresses of the regional and local authorities. Therefore, in the context of national associations of local self-government and local self-government. Please say, as you believe, there is a point to second reading for further elaboration to enhance the legislative capacity of national, now recognized even in Europe, social associations. Because at the last congressional meeting, they were asking this question, and I think that's the point: to allow them to come to this room with their bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u144	I basically support the idea. The only thing I want to pay attention to is its implementation has to be legally very precise. The list of subjects of the legislative initiative as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be extended by law. As far as lobbying in Parliament is concerned. They're not regulated at all. Therefore, some legislative reasons are needed for, as in Sweden, in many other countries, local self - government agencies to be able to provide expertise on local self - government laws. These are similar powers that are very important for these associations to be granted all-U.S. status. However, once again, it is very important not to let the Constitution of Ukraine be violated.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u145	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. The committee’s profile reports to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on State Building and Local Self - Rule Ivancho Ivan Vasilovich. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u146	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government reviewed the draft Law on Associations, other voluntary associations of local self - government bodies introduced by the People’s Deputy of Klukkowski, and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the first reading as a basis. The bill is prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self - Rule in Ukraine. The proposed bill regulates the establishment of an association, other voluntary associations of citizens, the determination of their powers, the establishment of the legal principles of the relationship between the listed associations and the authorities of the State, which was first made, and there is no document for the day of this harmonization. The currentity of the bill raises no doubt. Today, some 40 associations, other associations of local self - government bodies, have been established and run in Ukraine. The bill is designed to implement the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, article 15 of which stipulates that local self-government authorities can be integrated into associations and other forms of voluntary associations with a view to more effective exercise of their powers, protection of the rights and interests of territorial communities. But the formation of associations, other associations of local self - government bodies in the law and in any other one we have not defined. Neither is their authority nor the order of their relationship with the authorities. That's what the bill we're looking at today is all about. In our opinion, the committee that has considered and adopted an absolute majority of votes. This law, the bill, I mean, will be passed as a law, and it is essential for all of us, for association first and foremost, for those associations that already exist in Ukraine today. On specific issues, the bill needs to be redrafted. But this does not affect the acceptance of it in the first reading. And the committee, our Committee on State Building, local self-government, is proposing this bill and adopting it as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u147	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. Please sign in. Three minutes to ask. Lighten up. Please, dear. After him, Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u148	Dear Ivan Vasiljevic, please tell us that the law says that these associations can create businesses. How are enterprises created when they are used, so to say, by those who create them? Does it not seem to you that such economic activity preserves the most important of all: the ability of local governments to defend their interests in law and central government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u149	Thank you. I agree with your question. On this issue, what I was saying is that individual positions and positions need to be worked out. But an association can create an enterprise. For example, a printery for its needs. Is this a structure, non-profitable? Yes. But it's already going as a structural unit, so it's going as a self-organization of an enterprise where an association can be the founder of, let's say, print for the release of newspapers, for the release of its printed products and so on. But these questions need further clarification, I agree with you. On the second reading, I think these points will be worked out. There is.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u150	Please, Hiccup. There's a nigger behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u151	Quickly, the Socialist Party. I asked Yuri Bogdanovich a question about funding, he actually said that maybe it wouldn't be financed at the expense of the State Budget. So this is going to be financed by local budgets. Are there articles in the local budget in general, and were we careful to finance all kinds of associations? And that's not the same thing. The local budget is all about the costs that today need to be solved in order to solve some of the important problems there. That's the first one. And the second. You've analyzed on the committee how this bill relates to international law, which is the law of Magdeburg and so on? How does it compare with that today? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u152	Thank you for asking. Answer. First of all, it's about the funds that are transferred from the local self-government authorities to the appropriate associations. Yes. Aren't they transmitting today? Today the councils make decisions and transfer either the Associations of Cities, or the Regional Association of Local Regional Authorities, or rural, rural, and all others. At the plenary meeting of the appropriate council, two questions are about the introduction and the membership fees. Thus, part of the funds are transferred to these associations to exercise their powers. And they're transmitting today. But let us speak frankly, what law does this mean today? Not at all. That's the law. As far as it's concerned, it's consistent with the law of Magdeburg. It's both the European Charter and other documents, it's a citizen's right to unify. In what form is this another question, including associations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u153	Ivan Vasilovich, there's something to pass on. Please, Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u154	Nigger, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Ivane Vasilovich, the law regulates the relationship between local authorities and government authorities and creates legal bases for local self-government. But there's a different side of the matter -- the authorities of the state. And if the public authority violates these rights, is there a foreseeable responsibility for this and sanctions? Otherwise the law will be paper. It'll be declared, it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u155	Thank you for asking. I answer it in such a way that this is not the norm of this law, a violation by the authorities of the state concerning associations or other voluntary associations of citizens -- this is not the norm of this law, so it is not foreseen here. That's right in another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u156	Yes, thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. Respectful colleagues, of those who signed up, enrolled 10 national deputies. Are there any who insist? Two. Well, Yuri Anatolyovich, I thought you'd say no once. Yes, please, Puzakov. Get ready, Gunnery.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u157	Thank you. Vladimir Puzakov. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The city of Kirov. The relevance of the law is evidenced by the large number of associations already created in Ukraine and other associations of local governments. An important link in the system of self - government is the organs, the self - organization of the population created by citizens who legally reside in a particular territory. Such are, in particular, the building, the street, the quarterly committees, and so forth. I will address the problems of developing the form of population participation in the organization of a self - government system in the area of the Lenin District Council of Kirovgrad, where there are 24 quarterly committees in which more than 36,000 people live. In doing so, it should be noted that both committees and their heads are working on public principles, while the amount of work and responsibility each year are increasing and the real rights and human potential are quite limited, and the financial security of their activities is virtually lacking. The Law on Self-Organization of the Population, which has already been developed and operated in an existing legal field, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and other legislative acts, should be amended for the better. The vast amount of work carried out by the Lenin Paradise collective allows us to say that in practice only those provisions of the law that apply to organizational and methodological security can be implemented. The provisions of the law are designed for a society with a strong economy and a sufficient budget. Sadly, though, the situation at the Lenin City Council, which does so much in the matter of self - government, is entirely dependent on the city council. Last year, for example, the municipality’s needs amounted to 56.3 million dollars, and only 420,000 had been allocated to the area. Today, there are 600,000 more than the six - and - a - half - million needed. In addition, money is allocated only for a purpose. So the question is, what is the cost of handing over to the self - organization of the population? In addition, the final positions regarding the registration of existing local self - government authorities remain unfulfilled. The problem is that it is difficult for the quarterly committees to give legal status to a legal person. Thus, taking these comments into account will help to avoid a number of legislative violations and help to keep local authorities active. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u158	Please have the word "Gurney." Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u159	Eugene Hoornik, "Our Ukraine" faction, Valley Electoral District 89. Honorable deputies, distinguished representatives of local self - government. Despite all the difficulties of the excessive transition period, the local self-government system in Ukraine is still evolving, so it needs constant legislative improvement in various areas: financial, budgetary, structural, electoral and other. The proposed bill is one example of such improvement: the legalization of the existence of similar associations in Ukraine. If we go back to history, we must recognize that similar associations have existed since 1990. That is, created in 1990 in the City of Dniprosyrinsk Association of Democratic Councils and then, alternative to it, an association of local development, different for political reasons. The Galician Assembly and things like that. As time went by, these associations became stronger, more influential, and more logically, they needed to enter the legislative field. The other thing that they want to go out on is what they want to reap in this field. I admit it was equally interesting to read both the text of the bill and the conclusions of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, and there are strong positions on the one hand and on the other. I think the concept of the bill contains a number of dangers. That is, legislation must finally determine what associations will be. Whether they're going to be a legal person of a non-entreprehensive nature or they're going to be able to be the founders of entrepreneurial structures. Considering that we are dealing with budgetary costs even though local self-government, such dualism is not conceivable and it looks like lobbying the interests of the workers of the equipment of the existing structures. The other one. The legalization of the system of regional and all-Ukrainian associations, the consolidation of all-U.S. integrations into only two structures: the associations of Ukrainian communities and the Association for Regional Development of Ukraine. Considering that article 29 of this bill provides that the executive authorities are obliged to consider the proposals of the association, we will be in danger of actually violating the principle of the distribution of power. I mean, some kind of authority. In such a case, the bill foresees and is indeed a danger, especially since there is no need for such rigid regulation only by district councils and only by city councils. The bill has a number of other shortcomings. Perhaps less significant, such as the transfer of their powers by boards of executions, the involvement of associate members of businesses of natural persons, legal persons, and so forth. But they can be corrected in a second reading. Before going out to this rostrum, I hesitated as to how to proceed. But given the really huge work done by the drafters, and so it doesn't go away, all these things. which are spoken of and will be discussed, can be corrected in the process of second reading, especially that a very solid committee will be working on them. So I suggest that you accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u160	Please, Karmazin. Prepare Solomon.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u161	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Today the question is, "Do you need a law?" Having read the text, it is clear that the law is needed, the Law on Local Self - Rule is being developed, which we adopted back in 1997. The question is whether it should be accepted as a whole, whether it can be improved or not in the first reading. I think the law can be improved, I think there are things that need to be removed from here, but in the first reading, the law can be passed, despite the things that I'm about to say. First. Starting with the 25th article, the 26th and others have the right to delegate authority to local self-government by voluntary unification of these bodies, i.e. in fact we are making changes to the other Ukrainian Law - the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, and not only are we adopting a new law. And that needs to be made clear. Because it is not determined what kind of authority that is provided for in this law of a nongovernmental nature can be exercised by associations and other voluntary associations, and there is no change to this law, they are not proposed. Moreover, the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine provides only for the delegation of powers of district and district councils to the relevant local government administrations 9 of this article 43th and 44th). There's nothing else to predict. At the same time, draft article 25 states: “Contractually, associations and other voluntary associations may be delegated to local authorities. The third part. The delegation of associations and other voluntary associations of local self - government powers to the local authorities should be accompanied by the transfer of the material and financial resources needed to carry them out. That scares me. Therefore, I feel that this should be done with great caution, and article 26 continues. It says, "Delegation of powers with the simultaneous transfer of material and financial resources." And you and I know that they come to the local self-government and the cost of Ukraine's state budget, the local budgets that are passed on and can thus be passed on to the association, and it will be virtually impossible to exercise control, and that will be contrary to current legislation. So these things need to be removed as well as there, and they're taking part in the organization of civil servants' certification. It is likely that only the opinion and conduct of the test will be expressed, not shared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u162	The word has a national MP, Solomonine, to prepare for the Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u163	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction, Communist opposition. Dear colleagues, the bourgeois Parliament once again, the bourgeois opposition, and the opposition, which opposed the bourgeois power of the presidential majority and the bourgeois president, passed an association bill, local self-government, and so on. Let's take a look at the social class of this bill. And I want to start with a comparison. If there is a gun in the hands of a lawkeeper, it works to protect this lawyer and what laws he uses and what laws he is subject to. For the benefit of the people, for the protection of people’s affairs, and this weapon will work. What if this gun is in the hands of a bandit or a guardian of some criminal authority, a capitalist, for whose benefit will this gun work? It's the same with the council. Although we have this name: The Supreme Council of Ukraine is no longer the Council, which was in Soviet times. And it is not the same for the local councils, for there have come together in place of the people the subordinates and the competent ones who have already taken all the property of the people and are now ruling over them. Today, we have two bourgeois forces: the Presidential bourgeois majority and the bourgeois opposition that wants to take over power because of local self - rule. And this gang of thugs is sweeping Ukraine into individual princes. We're going to experience so much that instead of the unitary state of Ukraine alone, we're going to turn it not just for the federation, and not just for the confederation, but for a thousand princes. We give birth to a thousand-headed hydrate by such laws. We want to make the head of Kuchma's hydra, and we're actually giving birth to these laws to a new thousand-headed hydra with thousands of heaps. People are good, remember what you're doing! Such a law cannot be adopted at all; it must be rejected! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u164	Thank you. The word has a national deputy, Cherniak, to prepare for Orzhachovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u165	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we are very glad to be on the Supreme Council. But we need to take care of this and for the sake of a lower level so that the deputies there too are happy. The purpose of the bill is to give legal status to associations of local self - government. In fact, democratic power is local self-government. And the lack of development of local self - government is the cause of many of our problems. But it's a topic of individual conversation, and I don't have time to talk about it. So, undeveloped local self-government. We need to consider adopting the Law in a new edition of local self - government. But at least this bill is taking a step in the right direction. There are associations of local councils, other authorities of local self - government, and they are in operation. But it's not legal. And you have to put them in the legislative field, that is, you have to do everything you can to make sure that associations are in the law. We still have thieves in the law. Associations in law. So that they can act on the basis of the law. That's why we need this bill. It regulates the formation of local self - government bodies, associations of local self - government, and regulates relations with government authorities. These are extremely important two moments that the bill has in place. It defines the status of these associations, they are not authorities, they are not citizens’ associations, and they are council associations. And it's a special special status that's listed here. They don't have authority, and that's the right thing to do. What are their credentials? These are recommendations, such as regarding the development of the region, how to combine efforts, how to develop programs, and how to find funds for integrated development of the area, and how to do so. And this is lobbying bills that would help develop local self-government. Now my wish is to prepare for my second reading. Will they be a legal person without entrepreneurial functions or with entrepreneurial functions? I tend to think that they have to be a legal person without entrepreneurial functions, because there's going to be a certain amount of budget spending going to be going around, and that they're not being used to avoid abuse, so the legal basis. And you have to write a little bit more clearly about the transfer of authority, because there might also be abuse. And what I said in the question, about being predictable, responsibility is foreseen and sanctions, maybe in other laws, if the public authorities do not comply with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u166	Thank you. The truth should not be so happy that we are on the council, but that the people may rejoice, Volodymyr Kirilovich, then we too will have joy. The word has the national deputy of Orzhachowski and we finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u167	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Anatoly Orzhachovski, faction of the Company of Ukraine, Hersonschina. I find it difficult to speak because my faction friend was speaking to me and he was quite critical of the bill that is under consideration. I find it difficult because today I work at the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government and my previous life’s position and work has been linked to the work of counseling and today’s self - government. Of course, I'm not very happy about this bill either, because I know that not only do I have to have this bill, but I have to have the money for it. Or it might happen that at one time in Soviet times the law on local councils worked because there was money, there was no problem getting money. The problem was, where do you use them? Today, we have a law on local self - government, but unfortunately, it doesn't work. And I've come back from the county for days, and everyone's going to be groaning from everything we've predicted in the State Budget, up to 40 percent on delegated authority. I'm worried about something else in this bill. And I fear that it will not happen that really associations and other social associations will assume the powers that should be vested in representative executive bodies. In particular, I feel that article 28 provides that the authorization of voluntary associations should continue to be delegated. This is the mandate: to prepare proposals for the salaries of self-government officials, to develop proposals for the structure of the implementation of rural bodies, executive bodies of rural councils, and so on, to develop regulations for the certification of officials. Are we giving too much authority? It's a very different function. Now I'm also concerned: will there not be a law when we know how the authorities know how to use these laws that will not use administrative pressure on people tomorrow? Today it is the right of people to unite in association and unity, and tomorrow it will be quite different when you are obliged to go there. Next. Association membership: fixed, active, passive and so on. We can give both money to the state, and money to have, and we get that those who aren't members will rule the ball, but in general, I have to say today that, honourable national MPs, this bill, if it wasn't in the past, and there's a self-governance body today, and of course, we need to activate our population, which should be involved in the development of local importance. But I'm going to say it again. Each letter of the law needs to be checked so that we do not do as much as we can to help. So, according to this bill, frankly, I'm going to abstain.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u168	Thank you, the question is closed. We'll decide on the day of the vote. Dear colleagues, I continue our meeting for 15 minutes. We have enough of these, a few laws that have literally been waiting for us for years. So we will try to resolve them immediately, according to your agreement. There's a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case of Unemployment". Project number 3644 - reports Noshenko Mikola Petrovich, National Deputy, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Everyone who listens to us today. The idea of the bill came not in the cabinet, but in the aftermath of meetings in the district with the heads of agriculture, business leaders, employees of the employment centres, social policy authorities. And the basic idea, they say, is to regulate two laws today. The Employment Act, which provides for the provision of material assistance to the unemployed to organize their own business. But in the adoption of the Law on Stately Social Insurance in the event of unemployment, this rule, or the financing of this standard, fell out. And so far, it's practically not working. When talking to the villagers, it's really scary when a young, healthy person comes to the meeting and says, "I have to support the family, feed the children. Help me, deputy!".. So you start explaining to him, making suggestions, but he goes on to say, "Help me, please, literally. How am I supposed to process my land surplus?".. What is more, we have adopted in this room the Law on Personal Farming, which allows us to manage today without creating a legal person, provides an opportunity to unite the land pails with families. And here it is very difficult to answer with our advice, despite the fact that we adopted the law in the first reading on counseling. It is proposed to supplement the Law on compulsory state social insurance with one line: that funds can be used to help the unemployed, I stress, at the expense of the fund in the form of non-performing material assistance -- and cannot be called a loan -- for the organization of entrepreneurial activities, as well as for the organization of private agriculture. [[The language goes: it's the urban population, which is unemployed.]] Unfortunately, the trend of the rural unemployed is to increase. In two years, the number of unemployed increased by about 60,000. The number of social assistance payments from the same fund is also increasing. And this social assistance is irreversible. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my gratitude to the Expert Office, which has supported this bill. And I ask, first of all, the majority to support a bill that introduces a mechanism to combat unemployment, poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u170	Oh, Mikola Petrovich! 13 words, and you three minutes. There are no questions, because it's a reduced procedure. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Vernigor Leonid Mihajlovich will report. Short-term procedure. Don't raise your hand.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u171	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy and Work discussed at its meeting in July the practice of applying the Ukrainian Law “On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance in Case unemployment.’ In our decision, we drew the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers to the need to introduce an additional type of financial assistance to the unemployed to discover their own business. Why? Even without this amendment or the introduction of two laws, we have granted over 60,000 unemployed such interest - free loans in the past year. Some 400 unemployed have discovered their own business. Clearly, the more grateful we are to open the matter up, organize jobs there, the more we work there, the more we do today, the more we look at how much social benefits the unemployed will make. So I think that the only rule, let's say, is the law that already exists. The rule of law on employment is to transpose it into the law on social insurance in case of unemployment and we will have a huge economic and social impact. So the Social Policy Committee and our subcommittee support the position that this bill should be based on or adopted in the first reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u172	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, summary procedure. Who's that? Is he insisting on the performance? Weak, Hinsburg. Yes. A miner, please. He's behind him, Hinzburg. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u173	The honourable deputies, practically both the reporter and the coreporter, said almost everything. The bill is very short and very necessary, especially since it is already in operation, and the corresponding loans are granted, but they are available for consideration by the relevant local authorities. Because of this, I propose to adopt this bill, to support it, to accept it in the first reading. However, it will be very important to determine how loans are to be made at the expense of the general government social security fund, so that there are no different abuses in this case. It is at this very stage that we need to do more work. I support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u174	Thank you. Please, Hinsburg microphone. You're in, too, Olga Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u175	I'm on my way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u176	No, you tell me you're in favour or against me knowing, because two for and two for.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u177	In this case, who can oppose the protection of the unemployed, who? And by law, I'm talking now. 161 constituency, Communist faction. This bill was submitted today by my colleague from the Continuum. And the problems that have arisen not only in our area, but always in the reception of our citizens, they are now all over Ukraine. We have brought this Ukraine to the point that it will soon be completely unemployed. I wish the steps we are taking today could really solve the problem. But I understand that if we don't rebuild our Ukraine and we don't raise our economy, unfortunately, the adoption of such laws as we propose today won't solve this problem. It's just that it's not the law, it's the authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u178	Please, Karmazin against it. Solomonine for or Against? None. There's no Baranovsky, is there? Nigga against or over? Of course, get ready for Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine", "Solidarity", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The Bible tells us that it is necessary to give people the net, not the fish, or the fish, but better so that they can catch it all the time. That's what I'm up against. I am opposed to the approaches set out in the Preamble of this law. I thank both Mr. Noshchenk and Mr. Sharov for preparing this bill. But I would ask for either a vote to replace the one given with two remarks. First. We want to support only low - income families living in rural areas. What about other Ukrainian citizens? But there are three times as many. All villages are unemployed. This has to be ruled out. This should apply to all citizens of Ukraine, for it is today abnormal. The other one. Actually, we need to rule out the preamble. And I remind you, it says, "To support low-income families, especially those living in rural areas," just to rule out. Clearly, this is support, but it is not. Next. You write in the text, Adam Ivanovich. [[I've counted 13 words.]] "No interest on unemployment" and so on. But it's a loan, not a help. If it's a loan, it's got to be a very clear word. Then, "no interest, no return," would sound like. And that will be perfectly correct and logical. If you were to submit such a bill now in exchange for it, I think you could convince this room to vote in the first and second readings. I think even the representative of the lady's government would have been in favor, at least I think. And the experience that 594 unemployed people have already been referred to as having received entrepreneurial activities and have paid back 82 percent of the funds is really evidence of the high efficiency of this measure. But we still have to predict how this return will be ensured. That is why a second reading is needed in such cases. This mechanism must also be foreseen, and there is nothing about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u180	Thank you. Nigga from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, of course, none of us will have a hand in voting against a bill that proposes lending to the unemployed. The best way to fight unemployment is to create new jobs and this loan should go about creating its own business. The law is limited to the rural population, Carmazin said that a broader context should be put in place, perhaps that is the right thing to do. But what I'd like to focus on in the process, maybe preparing for a second reading, is the question of sources of funding, sources of funding, lending this loan. It could be a special fund created, it could be a social insurance, it could be a land bank that we don't have. I'm just afraid that we're going to adopt the right, good law that can be paper that can be a declaration of our good intentions. So I suggest we focus on the sources of funding for these loans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u182	Thank you, Vladimir Kirilovich. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u183	Quickly, the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, of course this law is required. But let's look at the Ukrainian National Social Insurance Act, which is formed from several sources. But in this bill, which we are given for consideration, there is no indication from which source it will be formed, a non-profit loan will be made for the fund. So again, there's going to be some kind of conflict. It can only work when we complete this law: interest-free loan funds are allocated from the fund's reserve of funds, as well as interest on the fund's deposit account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, Deputy Minister Hotch, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u185	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. We are very grateful to the Supreme Council that the government today has the opportunity to provide material security and social services to unemployed persons in accordance with the Law on State Pensions. At the same time, as an active discussion on this subject today testifies, there are some suggestions for changing the law and expanding our opportunities for social services. The government supports the proposal for further cooperation. However, it should not be overlooked that the bill provides for the granting of a nonrefundable loan. We can only speak for help on a pivotal basis. That's the first one. The second position that pays contributions to the insurance fund in all categories of the working population is that it should not only be provided in rural areas. With regard to other proposals, Mikola Petrovich Noshchenko, one of the authors of the bill, agreed that in the second reading the author would accept the proposals made by the government. In the light of what has been said, the law needs to be redrafted and adopted only in second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question is closed, we will be determined. And I have one more request, literally for a moment. We've been holding a culture minister here for about two or three months now, and he can't report a program to preserve history and culture. Let's give him the floor for the bills 4028, 4029 and 2469, let him keep us informed. And then let's figure out what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u187	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Thank you, thank you very much. As you know in September last year, according to the results of Government Day, the Supreme Council passed a decree on information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of State policy on the implementation of Ukraine's laws on the natural and cultural foundation and on the protection of cultural heritage and on the compliance of officials with the requirements of the current legislation regarding the National Hortician Reserve and other historical and cultural reserves, the natural-order fund. A proposed bill for consideration has been developed to implement the provisions of the above-mentioned regulation. The programme has a long-term duration of up to 2010. In order to create a proper legal field, laws are proposed. Today, the convention on the protection of an archaeological heritage was ratified. There are also amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Cultural Heritage, which we can consider today, and amendments to Ukraine's Land, Tax, Criminal Code and Code on Administrative Offences. There are also a number of regulations, instructions and other legal acts that improve legislation in the field of cultural heritage protection. One of the tasks of the program is to provide training, retraining, and enhance the skills of scientific, design, and manufacturing staff in the area of cultural heritage protection. Improvements are also foreseen for the infrastructure of scientific research, project, restoration and other organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u188	Yuri Petrovich, are you asking us to confirm the program? Each national MP has it in front of him and has come to know him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u189	Thank you for your good observation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u190	Yes, please, what changes to the law in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u191	And the amendment to the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Act. Time has passed, and some changes are needed, including the expansion of the law’s terminology. The recommendations of international organizations and conventions that have already been adopted since the adoption of the law by the Supreme Council of Ukraine are also included. It is also suggested that some authority be placed between the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the central authority of the executive branch, which is the Ministry of Culture. Some issues may be resolved by a decision of the College of the Ministry of Culture or by orders of the Ministry of Culture. This simplifies some conduct. It also distinguishes functions between the institution of heritage protection, cultural heritage as the Ministry of Culture, which is under the Ministry of Culture, and the district government authorities of Kiev, Sevastopol.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u192	Thank you, Yuri Petrovich, the point is clear. Tanjuk Les Stepanovich is head of the committee. Please sit tight, there are no questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u193	The Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the programme as a basis. There's only one point here, which is basically a program aimed at preserving cultural heritage objects, and from the point of view of tourism use, this aspect still needs further development to make the program more useful. And there's a note by the science-expert department about the lack of development of issues in international cooperation in the memory field. So we suggest that we accept the program as a basis, refine, and accept it as a whole in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u194	Okay, thanks. Please, according to the second bill, Mikola Grigorovich Joulinsky, is there anything you can add? Turn on the microphone. Or at the rostrum, it'll be faster. On the rostrum, Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u195	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We propose to accept some changes to the Cultural Heritage Protection Act. It's already working, essentially, for 2.5 years. The law vindicated itself, and the Ministry of Culture and Art implemented it and quite successfully. But the practice of applying has shown that some legislative mechanisms need both improvement and correction. So it's a conceptual terminological apparatus, it's about how to invent an investment fund mechanism for the preservation and use of cultural heritage objects, how to give permission for archaeological explorations, excavations, and so on. So here for a long time not to speak, our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration supports this law, and we also propose to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u196	Thank you, Mikola Grigorovitch, please, Toloczka.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u197	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Obviously, time has passed since the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and requires further development. In general, I take it that we must support it in the first reading. Sadly, though, this law is extremely harsh and still has a lot to work on. I could give a few examples, such as the fact that monuments are not a replicable source of information about the origin and development of civilization. Dear colleagues, from the Ministry of Culture, civilizations on the globe have appeared 4 or 6,000 years ago, and mankind has 1.5 or 2 million, so what else is there to study? We need to study. So here we have to make a point. And a number of other issues that need serious work. So, I think, Adam Ivanovich, let's support it on the first reading. But on the condition that we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u198	Thank you, Peter Petrovich. I would ask, indeed, Yuri Petrovich and Petra Petrovich, you come together because you have a direct attitude toward how the leader of the appropriate organization is to adopt a balanced law. Dear colleagues, Yuri Anatolyevich, perhaps we will conclude on this today? Well, we'll finish, but let's settle for another wish. Yes, please, one minute of Carmazin. And half a minute, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u199	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity of Victor Yuschenk's constituency "Our Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, today we are looking at a reduced procedure of as many as two bills. I'm very sorry that we always have cultural issues in the third place. And I thank Minister Bogick for finally reaching this hall today, for reaching the rostrum and getting to the people. The point is that the project of change that is being submitted, 4029, is about protecting the cultural heritage. It changes both the structure and the mandate of specially authorized cultural heritage authorities, including the organization in Kiev, the city of Sevastopol, the authority of state administrations. And this needs to be done with certainty and urgency. We've been through this for a long time. And today, it turns out that humans do not have authority. So I'd like to ask the profile committee to work on this. As for the program, which is Project 4028, because I was talking about 4029, here are the comments that were, and we have to predict, first of all, the term not to be limited in 2005 but to be increased by 2010 at least. That's the first one. And secondly, to make it clear that Ukraine will be seeking negotiations, including with the Russian Federation, on the return of our values. We need to get back here what lies both in Trelyakowec and in the city and around. You know, and then you're giggling, and they're publishing it in all the textbooks. This has to be a software problem for our offspring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u200	Nigger.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, we have good intentions. I hope we're implementing them, but for that, I want to put a bold emphasis on the issue of money, the financing of a state-wide programme for preservation and development of cultural heritage and changes to the law. If the issue of money is not resolved, these laws will be on paper. The necessary funds are needed to carry out the inventory of cultural heritage objects for the creation of museums, reserves, and the use of objects for tourist purposes. We already had a decree on the reserves. There's no money, they're not created. So let's think about having this law filled with money. And then it will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-12-10-m0.u202	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Thank you so much for your cooperation. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. At 3 p.m., you and I are here to hold parliamentary hearings on the issue of radio space. At 4:00 p.m., work on committees and factions.
