ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests, and invitees of the Supreme Council. Please prepare for registration. Turn the system on. [[10:02:09]] Registered -417 There were 417 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine Grzezhev Anatolia Dmitovich. Let's say hello. We wish you well. Dear colleagues, according to Friday’s regulations, we discuss the order of the day session. You have a list of questions, but if there's any agreement, we can vote on the MP's questions. Is there no objection? Please, Lucenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, dear Gennady Andryovich! Today, the delegation of the Socialist Party of Ukraine is in Sweden at the funerals of the dead terrorist act of the foreign minister of this country, leader of the Social Democratic Workers' Party, Anna Lint. I would ask, underlining the respect our Parliament has for Sweden and our desire to combat terrorism, to honor this courageous woman with a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please stand up. Please sit down. So I'm going to read and I'm going to vote on the questions of the people's deputies. Do you agree? A request was received from the national deputies of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies - Vascuk, Grigorovich and others, only eight deputies - to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on fire in the cable collection of houses number 21, 21st, 21st on the forest boulevard of the city of Kiev. Please vote. [[10:04:59]] For-161 Decision taken. Gregory of Omelchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the restoration of the constitutional rights of the Ukrainian national deputy, Vladimir Slednev. [[10:05:30.]] For-123 Decision taken. People of Kirichenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the provision of coal to the population of the Luhansk region for winter. Please vote. [[10:05:59]] For 193 Decision taken. Eugene Reddiennek to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for authorized violations of legislation in the drafting of the government's decision to amend the Ukrainian Cabinet Order on the introduction of a system of collection, sorting, transport, processing and disposal of waste as a secondary raw material from 26 July 2001. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:06:38]] For-153 Decision taken. Vladimir Puzakov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the solution to the problems of the viability of the village of Pobużek Golovanov in the region of Kirovograd. [[10:07:05]] For-136 Decision taken. The Kosovo National Deputies Group, Atroshenko, Plush to the Prime Minister of Ukraine in connection with the dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request for assistance to the "Community" agricultural enterprise. Please vote. [[10:07:37]] For 148 Decision taken. National Deputies' Groups - Pavlovenko, Immortal and Catherinechuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the verification of Ukraine's Anti-Corruption Act on the activities of the head of the Royal District Government Administration of the Susma Region, which impedes the execution of the judgement of the court in the disposal procedure of the Krolevetski Armistice Association. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:08:20]] For-138 Decision taken. Sergia Gmiri to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the consequences of the closure of coal enterprises in the city of Branka Lugansk. [[10:08:50]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Mikhail Pavlovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the problem of replacing a unique radiological medical device at the oncological hospital in Kiev in connection with the production of its resources. [[10:09:21]] For-166 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the removal of violations of the Ukrainian Constitution in the conduct of registrations in the passport of a Ukrainian citizen. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:09:50]] For-142 Decision taken. Alexander Goodima to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on providing information on the shadow sector at the time of the introduction of the Ukrainian State Budget project for 2004 and on the increase in the income portion of the State budget. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:10:20]] For-191 Decision taken. People's Deputies — Mokchan, Durres and others — only four deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding violations of the rules of law in force regarding the application of the State language. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:10:47]] For-142 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the reconstruction of the water supply in the village of Novokyyevka Kalančak district of the Hersonian region. [[10:11:12]] For 168 Decision taken. Victor Yushchenka to Prime Minister 3 for the completion of the construction of the Trieste School of Education of the Vinicke Region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:11:39]] For 203 Decision taken. People's Demjochin, Orzhachowski, Samoylik, to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds to deal with the consequences of the extraordinary situation in the Herson region. [[10:12:09]] For-188. Decision taken. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, for his comments on the parliamentary requests, disrespect for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, from the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:12:40]] For-183 Decision taken. Anatolia Orzhachowski to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine John Kirilenko in connection with the financial and economic activities of the agricultural cooperative "Tavria" of the Skadov region of the Hersonian region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:13:07]] For-157. Decision taken. Group of People's Demjokhin, Orzhachowski, Samojlik to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the settlement of issues relating to the provision of free services to Ukrainian state-owned postal companies. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:13:38]] For-166 Decision taken. Bogdan Kostinuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the reduction of forest plantings as a result of deforestation in the region of Johno-Frankow. [[10:14:06]] For-126 Decision taken. Viktor Gorbachev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Mikolayiv Region regarding the unlawful actions of employees of the Section of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine in the Mikolayiv region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:14:36]] For-151 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Pavlenko, Immortal, Katerenczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legal assessment of the actions of the employees of the internal affairs of the district of Suma, which caused the failure of the court and the damage to the state. Please Be Determined [[10:15:08]] For-137 Decision taken. Vasil Bortkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of misappropriation of state budget funds provided for in the inter-sector energy conservation measures. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:15:36]] For-92 Decision taken. Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine was beaten by a member of the Reschetil district social security department in the performance of his duties. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:16:07]] For 135 Decision taken. People's Deputies Groups: Joulinsky, Drach and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prosecutor of the Kyiv Region, the head of the Kyiv District Administration, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the preservation of the unique creations of the fauna in the end of the Kyiv region. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:16:42]] For-182 Decision taken. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the rights of the registered religious community of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate in the village of the city-type Kalininske Herson district. [[10:17:13]] For 131 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund for the verification of violations of the law during the termination of the rental company Killian Wine Factory. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:17:48]] For 135 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Artemenko, Gavriluk and others to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the Head of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio issues regarding the election of the relevant Secretary of the Council. I'd like to make a statement. But this is not the case of the Attorney General. [[10:18:17]] For-183 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies - Mihović, School and others - to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of the Interior of Ukraine on violations in the privatization of Zacarpatemblaly's assets. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:18:48]] For 177 Decision taken. Eugene Hoornik to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration in response to the parliamentary inquiry regarding the problems of the inhabitants of the village of Guta in the region of Ivano-Frankiv region as a result of the functioning of the national residence of President Sinjour. [[10:19:22]] For-200 Decision taken. Jury Palenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the conflict between the Sumskie district government administration and the teaching group of the school of the town of Šstka Sumska district. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:19:51]] For-153 Decision taken. Alexander Dove to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the gravity and improper investigation of the criminal case by the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Mikolai district. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:20:20]] For-142 Decision taken. Mikoli Katerinczuka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on providing official data on the basis of a national discussion of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:20:47]] For 172 Decision taken. Jury Karmazin to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the use of measures regarding the situation in connection with the alienation of the property of a military town in Lviv. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:21:16]] For-198 Decision taken. Group of Ukrainian National Deputies Chechel, Kulczynski, Polishchuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the National Tax Administration of Ukraine on tax evasion and non-compliance with sanitary and fire safety standards at the state-run Ukrkultmontage and Interenergo. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:21:55]] For 124 Decision taken. Groups of National Deputies Tsagnibok, Kendzior and others to the head of the Kyiv City Council on the violation of the claimant’s rights regarding the granting of a land for housing in the Pecher district of Kyiv. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:22:25]] For 104 Decision taken. Stepan Bulba to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on complaints about the unobjectivity of decisions of judges in the Pyratitin City Court of Poltavian Region. [[10:22:52]] For 128 Decision taken. Andrew School to head the Co-ordination Committee on Combating Corruption and Organized Crime with the President of Ukraine on the investigation into the theft of property by the Slovenian Bank. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:23:19]] For-174 Decision taken. Jury Klukkowski to the head of the Wallin County Administration on the legality of discharge from the post of Deputy Chief of Housing and Utilities of the District State Administration. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:23:49]] For 122 Decision taken. U.S. Attorney General of Ukraine from the People's Chamber for the verification of the corruption of the former Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine of the Kyiv region of Zarubinka. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:24:21]] For-149 Decision taken. National Deputy Valentina Seminouk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the validity of the findings of the Prosecutor's Office of the Zitomir Region on the facts of the unlawful actions of officials of the Open Shareholders Association "Koriszivski" and the Food Plant. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:24:55]] For-170. Decision taken. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister for Emergency Affairs and Protection of the Population from the Blackwater Disaster of Ukraine for the execution of the tasks of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of medical equipment to Montenegro’s district hospital. Please vote. [[10:25:29]] For 132 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, by insistence on individual deputies and factions, we have included draft regulations for consideration today that were not followed by positive decisions yesterday. These are draft decrees for parliamentary hearings - the spiritual crisis of society and its ways, the very topical issue, and the amendment to article 9.6. 3 The Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine This is registration number 4165. To make decisions on them today, we will need to deviate from the Rules and vote, i.e. at-hoc procedure, if your consent is to do so. Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u4	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Gennady Andriyovich, fellows of honor! I'm addressing you, if we go to the at-hoc today and we vote these two decrees, and I propose to support you, please, Gennady Andryovich, they don't cause any contradictions, vote on the two decrees given to you today by Raspberry and Bart. Malin is the status of the city and Bart is the border of the city. As the budget process goes on, and you realize that we're going to lose two weeks, and that's going to be inappropriate, I'd like to ask you to support these two decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u5	These are Decrees 4169 and 4170. If there is no objection, 4169 refers to the placement of the city of Malin in the district of Malin in the district of Žitomir in the category of cities of regional importance. And another decision is 4,170, on the change in the borders of the city of Barske District of Winnitsky. Please, Adam Martinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u6	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Martiniuk, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues and Hennaday Andriyovich! We haven't voted for ad hoc yet, and you've already had a bag of rulings. Let's first define whether we're going to be in voting mode today or not, and then we're going to be looking at the proposals that we're going to vote on. This reaffirms what we have been fighting about for almost two years now, which, in fact, should be held every day after discussing a particular issue. Then we will not have the same problems as we do today. And now you're going to be attacked from the left, from the center, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the left, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the right, from the left, from the right, from the right,
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u7	Adam Ivanovich, so we gradually go to vote every day. Dear colleagues, so let's set up an ad hoc procedure so that we can vote today on the issues that have now been raised here in the hall. Is there no objection? I'm voting so that we can vote on these issues today. [[10:29:03]] For the 220. Well, what is it? Dear colleagues. Well, why didn't you make it? Well, I'm not voting for the last time. For the last time, let's be clear. [[10:29:44]] For 254 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. A draft decision to hold parliamentary hearings on "The Spiritual Crisis of Society and its Ways to Overcome". People's MP Mokchan. Is he gone? Well, we discussed this yesterday. Vote. That's a very relevant question, Your Honor. [[10:30:23]] For 248 Decision taken. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making: draft Order on Amendments to Article 9.6. 3 The Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Participation in Committee Meetings Please, Michael Antonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u8	Thank you, Hennady Andriyovich. Dear colleagues, the question is very simple. It refers exclusively to the work of the Regulatory Committee. When we have matters involving deputies, the Rules of Article 9.6 apply. 3 says the Attorney General should be present. And he's on a mission, he's often sick. And we just can't do the right thing, the normal committee. So it is suggested that only two words be added: "The Attorney General or the Acting Prosecutor is taking part" -- when he is sick or absent. And then we'll work properly. All of it. This applies only to the work of the Regulatory Committee. All other questions remain as they are. So that we can work properly, we ask for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u9	Who's with the Regulatory Committee, please? From the Regulatory Committee, Vasil Vasilovich Gavriluk, please. Proposal by the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u10	Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished colleagues. To carry out the commission of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vasiliev Hennady Andriyovich, 17.09. On September 17th of this year, the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the amendment of article 9.6 was discussed at the meeting of the Committee. 3 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, made by the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavlovski, registration number 4165 of 17.09 2003, after discussion by the Committee, it was decided to support the proposed draft decision and recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include it in the agenda of the daily plenary meeting on September 18 or September 19 for consideration and decision-making. The members of the committee confirmed the proposal to amend the text of the draft decision, after the words of the Attorney General to put a dot, all other words to remove from the ruling. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u11	This is a change to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, which is not the subject of any law being passed, but only by the Supreme Council's decree can we correct something, introduce something, and so it's only to normalize our work somehow. Vote. I'll put it to a vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft, the decision to amend article 9.6.3. Rules. Please vote. [[10:33:44]] For 263 Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft ruling, please on the factions. We haven't voted yet. Dear colleagues! With regard to the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft, Decree No. 4169 concerning the city of Malin in the Malin region. About getting into the daytime. I'm putting it off until it's settled in the hall, I'm putting it off. In this way, I am voting on a draft decree amending Article 9.6. 3 The Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Please identify yourself. [[10:35:22]] For 251 Decision taken. Calm down, please, we'll work. Anatoly Matvienka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! I am speaking to you with understanding. Please, there is no politics here. The thing is, we didn't initiate ad hoc. And since we've adopted ad hoc today, there's a budget process going on, I've been asking about Raspberry on the Conciliation Council, and I've asked you to put it into the agenda. No one objected. So there is a proposal, Gennady Andriyovich, to vote on Malin and Bar, since the budget process should take into account the city’s status and territory. It's not a political issue. Please put it to the vote. It won't work, so it won't. Moreover, this was discussed. Gennady Andriyovich, please put to the vote for inclusion and decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u13	Anatoly Sergiyovich, on these issues. There's no agreement in the hall. Let's not put it in now. All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u14	Gennady Andriyovich, stand by and let the hall be determined. Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! Well, you're setting the hall on fire. We're just wasting time with you. Okay. Okay. Please identify yourself. In the case of draft decree No. 4169 concerning the assignment of the city of Malin of the district of Zitomir to the category of cities of regional importance. Please identify yourself. [[10:38:08]] For 180. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Was it not clear that this decision would not pass? 4170 about the change in the city of Bar. A change in the boundaries of the Bar of the Vinnitsk district. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:38:37]] For-187 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues! Let us continue to work hard. Please, Mikli Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Dear Hennaday Andriyovich! I wanted to pay attention, today we have a very important issue in order today -- 3038 draft of the Information Act. And we agreed on the Conciliation Council and, by the way, in the document that we voted for, which we now have on our hands and on the website, two committees will report: the Committee on Science and Education and the representative of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information. Here today, a co-reporter from our committee has disappeared. I insist that this is an extremely important law. And he also answers by authorizing our committee to preserve the report as the Conciliation Board made a decision on 3038.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u17	Okay, we're going to take a look at how we're going to talk about this. Okay, okay. Please, it's the robot's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, this will be the report of the interim commission of inquiry on the elections in Mukachev. I don't know whether or not the number of Decree 4087 was accidentally given, which is recommended on this issue by the commission of inquiry. Please. It's given to the national MPs, it's even distributed twice, so we need to include 4087.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u19	Yuri Mikolaiovich, well, we'll get to it. Let's work. Vladimir Yavorowski and we are moving on to the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u20	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, Yavorovsky district, Lvivščina, "Our Ukraine". Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. We have good news that finally our Ukrainian football team has its new coach. The Ukrainian soul today can only be comforted in two cases: football and boxing with the Clicchi brothers. Because, let's say, as a Ukrainian citizen, I'm very concerned that Blochin, the new coach, can be a coach on public grounds and remain a deputy. To make it ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u21	Yes, turn off the microphone, please, and we're working. I'm announcing a draft Act on Information Activities, 3038. Deputy Head of the State Liaison and Information Committee of Ukraine, Omelchenko Andri Volodymyrovich, is invited. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear Hennady Andriyovich, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act on Information Activities. The need to adopt a project is due to the objective state of the legal and regulatory base in the area of information in Ukraine. The current laws of Ukraine, including the laws on information, on the protection of information in automated systems, on the national information programme and others, regulate only certain aspects of activity in the field. At present, however, there is no legislative act that would fully ensure the regulation of the legal relations arising from the creation, distribution and use of informational digital technologies, products and resources. Further development of information technology, which is now applied in virtually all areas of society, requires a clear legislative definition of both the concept of information and the principles of activity in this area, the requirements for the content and language of these objects, the regulation of the relationship between their owners, distributors and users. A bill has been put forward to deal with these tasks. The subject of regulation is the following questions. This activity is in the field of information, i.e. the activities of entities involved in the implementation of information processes aimed at meeting the information needs of users. The preamble to the law clearly states that its action does not extend to publishing, television, radio, and other media. The draft law contains the definition of a number of terms that are not in force legislation, such as the information activity, which is subject to information and its kind of activity. The draft law sets out the principles of activity in the field of information that meet the requirements of the Constitution, Ukrainian law and the requirements of international law. These include the protection of users from material or moral harm, the protection of information subjects, the availability of information resources that do not contain information with limited access. This bill should regulate the language regime of information subjects and determine the types of services in the field of information. It also contains rules on property rights in the field of information, which is new, in particular with regard to legislation on the protection of intellectual property in Ukraine regarding the order of activity and the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of information subjects. An exclusive list of cases of restriction of such activity, which can be carried out solely by decision of the court under the applicable legislation and the Constitution. It should be noted that the project also contains a number of standards aimed at ensuring human rights and freedoms and establishing the responsibility of the subject in the field of information for actions aimed at violating them. In conclusion, the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading and to further develop it, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators for the second reading. We ask for the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention. Report completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u23	Okay. Will there be questions? It is, isn't it? Please sign in. Lighten up. Yuri Carmazin, next Kalinchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Your Honor, I respect you very much as an expert, but I don't like this law at all. That's a soft word. It's a bruise on the neck of the Ukrainian people. Would you say who is behind the drafting of this law? And what will change if this law does not exist? That's what I'd like to know. And how can we control what is written in it? In fact, control over what state it takes, what resources it takes, or how the public reacts to this law. You may have studied the public’s opinion in magazines, newspapers, and so forth. That's three small questions. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to note that this bill is drafted in accordance with the National Information Programme Act. The legislation in force in the field of information deals only with the subject matter of filling and determining the direction of information. The media, digital media, information products, information resources, responsibility, ownership rights. These technological issues are not regulated by current legislation. According to the bill, he stands as the authority of the State executive, authorized to carry out appropriate functions in this area. With regard to the new regulation of this bill and how it will affect freedom of speech and human rights, it should be noted that this project envisages regulating relations in the field of information precisely those that are not defined today. I've already pointed out in my statement that this draft law, it doesn't apply to a meaningful part, it only refers to technological issues, it doesn't apply to the media, television and radio. This is about the rights of manufacturers of information technology, products and resources, about protecting consumers' rights with regard to SPAM, about other possible unauthorized interferences in operation, more faithfully, of any technological equipment used in networks that transmit these information resources. As far as the alignment is concerned. Oh, yeah. Who will coordinate and regulate these issues: The State liaison and other authorities, including, first and foremost, the Supreme Council, which have one or more oversight functions in the field of information activities. The creation of new bodies, censoring, some additional budget expenditure is not absolutely the case. And I'd like to say the last time I use this. In drafting the bill, standards were used, and there is no deviation from the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on information and international legal instruments such as the Convention on Cybercrime of the Council of Europe and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u26	That's understandable. Andrew Volodymyrovich, answer the questions in a more concise way. Please, Vasil Antonovich Kalinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, I would like to continue with the questions raised by my colleague Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. Do you not feel that the adoption of this law will make it impossible for legal and physical persons to effectively defend their rights if they are violated? Does it not seem to you that this law, if we adopt it, will result in excessive interference by the State in the social relations described above? And the last. The bill regulates relations relating to the Internet network. But we have already adopted the Telecommunications Act, which contains all of this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. The scope of the Law on Telecommunications and the scope of a number of information laws have different legal provisions. As for the intervention of the state. On the contrary, this bill defines the framework for monitoring the activities of producers and consumers of information resources. And if you look at article 2gu, on the principles of information activities, it's clearly stated here that this is the principle of legality, the availability of information resources that do not contain information with limited access. And what is this information is defined in the legislation on information. And so on. The responsibility of information subjects, violations of the rights of other subjects, and so forth is clearly established. Thus, the bill is aimed at establishing framework conditions and responsibilities, primarily by the State for interfering with the above - mentioned subjects.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u29	Please sit down, time is up. The Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Rodionov Mikhail Kuzmić, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u30	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. I want to start right away with the question of Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin. He said it would change if the law was not passed. I want to remind you of some aspects of the discussion of this law. This bill was registered early this year. Naturally, at the beginning of this year, he was also considered by the Committee on Science and Education and, considering that the comments and suggestions made to him by the committees at that time did not come, including from the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, which Mr. Tomenko, head of the Committee, reported in writing to the Committee on Science and Education, by a letter dated February 25, 0622-1765. And considering that the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office is positive, and my personal opinion that I have reported on the committee in the consideration of this bill, which is that this draft law is of a framework nature and touches, more specifically, on the legal relationship between information subjects, i.e. the relationship between owners, distributors and users of information technology, products and resources, I emphasize, information technology, not information. And despite the shortcomings that the Committee on Science and Education has expressed in this draft law at that time, it has agreed with my view that if the legislator has already passed this law, it may be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council and adopted in the first reading, taking into account that in the second reading it will be deleted the positions that we believe are subject to regulation of this law and are subject to regulation by other legislative acts. In particular, this applies to the provisions or requirements of Article 2 such as the reliability of the completeness and the timeliness of the information provided to the user in Article 2 and is already subject to the regulation of the Information Act. There is no need for the last paragraph of article 3. It is now described as follows: "The subject of the information field, which contains information that constitutes a state secret or other information with limited access to the State, is an object of exclusive state ownership." We believe that this point is inappropriate for two reasons. First. The first paragraph of this draft law highlights what information objects are subjects of state ownership. I would like to remind you that these are objects created at the expense of a government budget or the cost of a state enterprise. This does not depend on what information is available on this object. Which and where to place information that is a state secret or other. This, according to information experts, is also the area of activity, not the law, but the information law. In Article 5, where it is referred to as "the content requirements of an object in the field of information", this name does not match its own. The content of this article does not match its name because it is information that can or cannot be distributed through electronic media. I think it's a waste to count these requirements, because they are too. I'm finishing because that's a very contradictory thought. In my opinion, there are also similar requirements for all media. There can be no separate requirements for electronic or computer media, for such a link should not be limited. There are other comments that may have been made by deputies, but despite the fact that the shortcomings in this bill are sufficient. I believe that in the first reading, it should still be accepted, for the first time in this project it is proposed that the legal relationship between the owner and the distributor, between the distributor and the user, should be established by law; the legal relationship associated with the use of network objects; the situation that is not currently regulated. In addition to this decree today, there is a decree by the national deputies to reject the bill in its first reading. On this point, I want to remind you that everything I've said is fixed in the committee's protocol. Nevertheless, the committee accepted this, taking into account what the developers agreed on. If we can combine office offers as a subject of legislative initiative and public offerings, only then can normal law come out of our room. And about what will change if we don't accept it. This was my first statement on the committee report that I said nothing would change. Because I don't see it as big as they say it is. But given that he is, respecting the right of legislative initiative, I'm still leaving, of course, the thing that goes, the conclusion of the committee, everyone else. And we can work together to work out the law that counts, and a lot of the right ones, but for the first time, the proposals that national MPs make.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u31	Okay. Will there be questions? Please sign in. Lighten up. Boris Bespalij, the next is Eshchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u33	Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u34	Mr. Reporter, you know that, in fact, we on the committee believed that when we discussed such drafts, we could work both in the second reading and between the first and the second. But the fate of the changes to the Law on State Mystery, when here in the session hall, means that the vote was voted in the first reading, in the second and in the whole. And according to the State Secrets Act, developed by the Security Service, by the way, like this law, version one. So it turns out that this law violates the rights of both journalists and citizens. And only the President's veto has stopped him yet. So when you say we can talk between the first and the second readings, I personally don't have that confidence. Do you guarantee that between the first and the second readings we will be able to remove all those things that today clearly violate the rights of citizens and journalists and run counter to the Act on Information and the Act on Combating Censorship that we have adopted recently?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u35	I'm 100 percent saying I guarantee it. First of all, I'm referring to a faction of Communists that is not a fan of the government or the bourgeois system that is in our country, and what laws do we still adopt in this country. But in order to do that, they say, to start working, well, you have to work on something, right? And if, for example, I'm your comments or suggestions, well, I say most of them, I support, but I'm going to use and respond to most of the suggestions that were in the media, unfortunately they didn't contain what you just said. These suggestions, these remarks, they're like, you know, anecdotes were when friends ask their friend and say, "What did your father say when you said you broke his car down?" He says, without his mother, he didn't say anything. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u36	Vladimir Leschchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u37	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Mikhail Kuzmich, you said that the draft law on information activities is a framework. That's understandable. But information activities are precisely regulated by many other laws in force, including the law on the status of Ukraine’s national MP. And property rights don't do that. There is also a predetermined responsibility, but no one is responsible. Including in this bill, article 11 calls for responsibility to be inconsequential. What responsibility will these objects and subjects bear if they fail to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u38	Okay. That's what I'm going to tell you. First of all, any law, and first of all, this law should be directed to the user, to the consumer. And here's what's going to satisfy the consumer, its requirements, because all the information is good, they're only designed to be used by people. If they don't have it, it can't be. So in this law, if there's a proposal and there's a proposal, there should be rules that first of all, number one is the person for whom all of these means exist.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u39	Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear reporter, I fully agree that this document, this bill, which all of the rest of these bills have been drafted in the BSC. The Ukrainian Security Service simply sleeps and sees itself as an electronic controller. So why doesn't the same initiative come out to look at people's postal correspondence? You see, if an e-mail has the right to read a staff member, why doesn't he have the right to read a private letter that I'm writing, let's say, to his wife. I can also write to my wife by e-mail, by e-mail, and by e-mail. So why is the SBS initiative limited here, and what is the right of the Security Service in general to claim private electronic correspondence, to read it, whatever motivation it gives to combat terrorism and anything else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u41	Respectable, right question. But I want to remind you of this. We often refer to the requirements of European legislation. Yeah? That's right. But we still have to assume that we're not Europe. And in Europe, in terms of these positions, if we take them in the way they say it, I think we shouldn't do it. Yeah? We need to do what we do in our society. Your question is specific. I mean. Whether it's an electronic device or another information tool, they all have to comply with one law in both printed and on television and on radio. You can't. One law required something you can and can't do. You can't go to one, you can't go there. The Information Act, I think he's preparing something like this with amendments. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u42	Okay. Please, just sit tight. From the committee, Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u43	Mikola Tomenko, "Our Ukraine" faction. Dear colleagues, here I would like us to expand the scope of our discussion a little bit, look at the laws and the logic of their adoption and appear in this session room. At a time when the government and the president of Ukraine called on the Council of National Security and Defence to find the formulas for monitoring Internet sites, the Internet community. An appropriate document has been developed, and on the basis of this document in 2001, the Security Service is printing us bills that are in some way trying to limit the rights of citizens. The first bill that we passed here with violation of the Rules, the Law on State Secret, change, fortunately, the President vetoed, allowed any citizen who published the article, or a journalist, to conduct his inquiry and ask where he got this information. A bill like this is now registered, it's called Communication Monitoring. If we adopt this bill, the Security Service has the right to listen to phone calls right now, according to the court's decision. According to that bill, she can listen. Well, she's listening now, of course, illegally, and under that bill she'll be officially listening to these conversations. What is the danger of this third bill? I have no warning to the State Liaison Committee, but it would be fair for the Security Service to report, because a bill was posted on the Supreme Council site for three months, where the "Developer-Security Service" was written. So they would have to explain what they wanted to do. The problem of the second bill, it does not say who will control it, says that the State Liaison Committee. Once again, the law enforcement agencies and the Security Service are likely to do so. So the law is, in my opinion, completely, and in the opinion of the public, the journalists who discussed it are in contradiction with the recommendations of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers since 2001. It makes it very clear that we, as Internet users, have the ability to make technical restrictions on the use of, for example, children of some kind of erotic or some kind of product. This is what the computer is capable of. But if you look at article 5 of this law, it means that, for example, today, starting with "Ukrainian Truth" and other sites, you can close them down because there's a rule that allows you to ban them from distributing unreliable and distorted information. Inadequate information is clearly not interpreted in the law. Moreover, in our law on censoring, we have made all these delicate terms very clear. And it actually looks at the law that we passed. So this is our next position. After the Law on Changeing Public Service, we see that there is no guarantee in a normal civilised process of making changes between the first and the second readings. We believe that such a bill, if it is to be developed, let's say by the Nicolainka Committee and our committee, not by the Security Service, we can really guarantee that it will not violate the rights of our citizens and journalists. If this bill is in such a way that it is developed by the Security Service, of course we have no guarantee that it will be a bill on those citizens and journalists. So our proposal is not to support the bill. And if necessary, but Mr. Rodionov I support that nothing will change, even if this bill is adopted, if necessary, two committees will gather and decide to develop it. And the Security Service, I would advise them not to hunt journalists from the Internet, but to search for criminals in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u44	Please have a seat. Let's move on to the discussion. The Coroner reported. That's it. Please sit down. Let's move on to the discussion. The word is given to Karmazin Yuri Anatoliovich. And the next one is Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear national MPs, distinguished by our radio audiences, Internet users. I'd like to call that law that's being discussed) something called "on information activity"), rename it and say: the law on combating the media and citizens of Ukraine who use the Internet. That's what this law can be called, unfortunately. Why? Imagine this bill cancels the very term "the Internet media" as such. Internet Journalists are no longer journalists, they are informers, i.e. people involved in creating, disseminating, using, storing and processing information objects. Accordingly, no more newspapers, no more Ukrainian Truth, no more Forum. Not many more, many more interesting newspapers, it's not a publication anymore, it's objects in the field of information. Immediately, journalists were divided into greys and whites. Those journalists in the newspapers on TV yesterday who were harassing the memory of Gongadze, you may have heard what was not proved yesterday. And so on. And Mr. Pichovszek and other gentlemen who forgot how things were going on wanted to distort the memory of the people, and now they won't give people the opportunity to read on the Internet. I heard who the drafters were today. Unfortunately, these developers are in the Ministry of Communications. I would like to say that I have deep respect for the committee and for Mr. Rodionov, but don't do, Your Honor, a gift to the political-powered gentlemen with the letters "O" who control today all the ears that are in the country at the expense of the budget. You have no idea how much control all Ukrainian citizens today have and control over political opponents. Of course, it will one day be followed by criminal law, but as long as it is. I object to the fact that the Internet is simply a piece of garbage and therefore the content requirements of article 5 for the content of the information subject should be introduced. Both pornography and information that does not contain normative language. But, dear friends, as you provide for Article 2gu, you will not provide it. You won't do anything. How you cherish the state's secret. But there's no one to answer for the state secret, there's no questions. There are so many problems. I would ask you to listen to the thoughts of those people's deputies who prepared the 3038 decree, Tomenko, School and Robotics, about the inadmissibility of the project and to vote in favour of the unacceptableness of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u46	Please, Yuri Petrovich Solomatin. Solomatin's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u47	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear Hennady Andriyovich! We have already found a number of deputies who regularly abuse the use of the rostrum. There's a signal, when 30 seconds before the end of the performance, he is, and he stresses it, but when the time of 3 minutes ends, this person continues for another 30-40 or a minute, or two more to perform and stop it even in addition to physical means, it's impossible. So I'd like to ask you to give the appropriate services two signals: the first signal per second, and the second signal three times when three minutes are up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u48	We have some kind of reporter who needs 33 signals, and there's not going to be much of that. Please, Puzakov Vladimir, next Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u49	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The adoption of the proposed draft Law on Information Activities should, in my opinion, eliminate a number of major shortcomings that are now in the field of communication. For example, state-owned enterprises and associations in which article 12 of the Ukrainian Communications Act imposes obligations to the fullest extent to meet the needs of consumers in the provision of information services. They are often simply not carried out and are not held responsible. Under no circumstances will the authorities today allow the opposition to have, let's say, a free channel on television only because the honest information that we Communists have unfortunately not been able to communicate to people is simply deadly. We Communists are simply afraid to be on television as well as other technical means of communication. What civilised information services market and the legal provision of information, as provided for in the draft law, can today be discussed in such a cavernous regard to these issues by authorities. Let me give you an example. If our area, for example, is visited by representatives of the authorities or leaders of the presidential party, radio or television will not be silenced by day or night. They're all being raised to hurrah. But when opposition leaders visit the area, as was the case during electoral campaigns, the media expose these events as secondary or in general silence. In our area of poverty today, there is an island of socialism where people live and work as in Soviet times. This is the New Ukrainian Region's NSP, led by Communist Ogir Vladimir Ivanovich. The economy’s profitability is 44 percent, the average wage of 550 dollars a month. The economy does all the planning and economic indicators. And in a word, has our "great" media ever informed us about this farm? [[in quotes]] But they'll never do that, because that's where the communist works. You do not list such examples in the absence of time. Today, perhaps the time is coming to resolve the issue of information through telephone calls. The average citizen needs a phone, but he just doesn't want a wallet, because it costs about a thousand dollars. I would like to know how the price comes from Ukretelek, putting such a value on the telephone line. The law that we are enacting today must ensure human rights and freedoms, establish legal guarantees, responsibilities and responsibilities for information subjects, strengthen the responsibility of officials for the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u50	Thank you. The word is given to Vladimir Cherniak. None. Boris Bespali. Next up is Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u51	Boris Bespalij, Viktor Yushchenka's Block, Our Ukraine, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, as we all know, the authorities are doing everything they can to make the information space of Ukraine unobjectively reflect life in the country and abroad, rather darken it. The achievement of power is already well - known here. Ukraine is now firmly entrenched in the second hundredth century by freedom of speech, or one of the least democratic countries. And it's very hard for journalists to work here. And we're all excited about their heroism and we feel for them, but we have to change this situation. The most influential electronic media, radio, and television are already under way. There is a great deal of pressure on the print media. Well, it's clear that the government doesn't give peace of mind to the Internet, where you can work more or less objectively today. There is no complaint from internet users. But there is a constant attempt to push, to censor on the Internet. And I think it has something to do with elections and so on. This is said to be a framework law. But, dear colleagues, let's think about it, the walls of the prison cell are also a framework. This is a framework law, a prison cell for the Internet. There will be freedom of speech. Much of the law contains good standards, and that is also true. But there is such a life situation where one thing is so harmful that it destroys everything good. For example, if a housewife cooks boorscht, there may be both popcorn and garlic and potatoes, and someone will throw cyanic potassium there. And then all the good stuff is completely ruined. And so the repressive norms that are laid down in this law are completely null and voiding all the positives that are contained in this bill. I don't think we should miss the laws that are poisonous for Ukraine in the first place. When we're told that we're going to take it as a base, and then we're going to flip something, we're going to melt it, we're going to fix it, we're going to clean it up. That's it, I think, an illusion. We know who controls this session hall. And we know how, step by step, anti-Ukrainian ideas, anti-Ukrainian ideas are being carried out here. So I think, based on the extremely harmful nature of some of the rules of this law, which no one denies based on their work experience, we usually have to block this law at an early stage and not accept it. If its developers remove from there all the unacceptable standards that only shame Ukraine before the world’s society, then let them recall it, reinstate it. So I don't think we're going to accept this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u52	Please, Andrew School. Next up is Yuri Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u53	The school of Andrew, the faction of the block of Yulia Timoshenko. You know, when there's something good and more or less quality in Ukraine, there's a lot of people who want to have two or three ways to do it in a good and quality way. In particular, there have been attempts to impress the Internet, and they have passed through this session hall, but they have not. The Internet is a single one where censorship is almost impossible in principle. It's technically possible, but eventually it's an incredible thing. So there is now a new bill that we are offered here. Where the object, the subject, is protected, all of this is well described. But where is the person here, where is the person? It's a dehumanized law. This is a law between an object and an object. Where do you see it? Where's the user listed here? The user is the one who reads and the one who writes. I was already giving an example in my question about the letter. The letter is written by hand. A court permit is required to read it. A letter written using a keyboard sent over the Internet can be read by means of this law. So who's voting for him? When we vote in favour of this law, we'll rule out e-mailing from private correspondence. Because it's like assigning a date through this microphone, it's almost everyone's going to find out. So I'd like this bill to just be revoked. And of course the initiator here was the Ukrainian Security Service. And this isn't about hanging out on the site, then something changed, but the thing is, by spirit, it's the Usual, because the task of this service right now is to own, control and fight. Possessing the ability to illustrate, read, and so forth, to forbid all others from doing so and to fight dissension. This is the task of this service. Where the security of the state is, I don't know, but that's another question. That's why we don't have the right to conduct this bill through the session hall. The fact that there are some quality standards that can improve and regulate the relationship between the information provider or the subject is that we can bring it into line with other fundamental laws, such as the information law, and write it down there, that is, use the positive quality of the law, put it into another and separate it, banning the speculative law, which is in principle a sign of the totalitarian regime, rejecting it as a phenomenon, and the positive effect of transferring it to the law, as I have already said, on informationization. So I urge you not to vote again, first or second, or any other reading, to recall and prove that there are people in this session room who don't want their phone calls to be listened to, so that their letters can be read, and that their personal lives will be torn apart, and that they will do it with wealth or blackmail or publicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u54	Please. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u55	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! We are discussing today a bourgeois law on information activities. And if this law is bourgeois, it is primarily designed to protect one part of the new Ukrainian bourgeoisie from the entire Ukrainian people, as well as from the other part of the Ukrainian bourgeoisie, which is in the bourgeois opposition and is afraid that those who are in power today will get it eventually and more in the elections that are due to take place in the near future. So we shouldn't have an illusion here: it's a struggle of two clans -- one that's in power and one that's in power. Who's trying to capture this power. And the people, and the personality, all the more, there's nothing to do with it. That's the first one. Second, it mentioned confidential information, public information, state secrets, but no one mentioned such a word association and such a notion as commercial information. Here's the information -- all the information -- it's more information than the protocols of the famous CPDC from a special folder. It was from this national rostrum of the Supreme Council that the head of the then tax administration announced at one of our meetings that there were over 100 million people on the Supreme Council who came from business. By the time we came to the Supreme Council of this call, it was this person who had announced that there were such businessmen in the Supreme Council over 300. And we succinctly asked Mikola Janovich: proclaim the names of these heroes. And what did he say? It's commercial information, we don't have the right to publish it. What we're talking about here is the people's heads, the people are good, when we're yelling again and again about censorship on the Internet, and so on and so forth. The fact that the Internet is a laundromat in Ukraine is 100 percent, everyone knows without any laws, who can be pulled out and voted for all of Ukraine, the whole world, anyway. But anyone who applies to this Internet has the full right not to pay any attention to it. Dog, dog's lying, and the caravan's going -- that's our freedom. Does our nation, our Ukrainian people, need such freedom? No, it's not. So our faction and I personally consider such a law as it is proposed, regardless of the shortcomings that have already been made, to be adopted. At least he'll limit a little bit what we have in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u56	Please, Vladimir Cherniak. Do you refuse, Volodymyr Kirilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, this is a very interesting question. And, you see, you've noticed different approaches. And usually, the truth is in the middle. On the one hand, we need to limit the abuse. I agree, we need to limit the abuse. But not enough to shut the throat of freedom of speech and human freedom. This law applies to human rights. I think we should look at it in this context. Of course, once again, on the one hand, we need to regulate the legislative information activity -- no doubt, the idea deserves support. But on the other hand, we cannot allow unjustifiable restrictions and unjustified censorship. [[Censorship has no excuse at all, except for the State's secret]] Here are some of the elements that my colleagues have been talking about, where the censors are overworked. I actually took the floor to remind you and to draw your attention to the fact that already in several bills we have the idea of the need for censorship, somehow we need censorship. And about the state secret there was the law -- there was too much, there were other laws. So that's the trend when the Supreme Council is going to have bills that are going to extend censorship. And from this point of view, I share here the notion that it's unacceptable in the way it's given to us. But at the same time, I wouldn't want us to cut the whole idea out. I propose to re-read the bill. Let the subject of the legislative initiative take into account today’s discussion, amend it, write more correctly these novels that relate to the regulation of activities in the field of information. And I think in the future, you can accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed in the vote, and will be dealt with in accordance with the rules. Now let's move on to the next question. According to the Conciliation Council’s decision, we have today a report by the Interim Investigation Commission on the situation in connection with the holding in June 2003 of successive elections by the city’s head, Mukachevo, of the Zakarpatsky region, and the provision of constitutional rights for citizens during elections, violations by the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine’s electoral legislation. Reported to the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Jobist Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, Nestor Schuffritch from the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u59	Thank you, Your Honor, Hennaday Andriyovich, dear colleagues. I want to remind you that by the decision of the Conciliation Council, I am given the opportunity today to make a co-report within the time limit spent on speaking to the nine factions of the majority, but I will do my best to put myself within the limit set for the head of our fellow worker's investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u60	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, Mr. Shufrich is not a member of the commission of inquiry, and he may speak, I do not protest as the other, dear national deputy of Ukraine. The question is now being answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u62	Yuri Mikolaiovich, you don't have to protest, really, this issue was discussed by the Conciliation Council, you don't have to. And why we have to restrict someone, it's okay. Please report, and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u63	One minute. Let us confirm the rules, and in this case, the chairman should not violate the rules of procedure for Mr. Shufrich's agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u64	Then let us return to the decision of the Conciliation Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u65	I'm here because I was the right decision of the Supreme Council, and I'm the head of the commission of inquiry, and the report has to be made according to the regulations, not a sublime agreement on behalf of the SDRU.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u66	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u67	Dear Head! Deputies! The election of the martyr's city head was a powerful example of direct participation in the electoral process of the Zacarpathian district executive authorities, led by the head of the state administration and the head of the district headquarters of the SDPU, Mr. Rizak, and the officials of the higher levels and criminal elements who are members of the SDPU(o) or who are acting under the direction of this party and were engaged in support of candidate Nuser Ernest Ernestovich. On the side of the urban head candidate, Mr. Nuser, who was officially supported by the SDPU, was employed by a team of experts in dirty electoral technology, using not only the authority of the government, other authorities, the power structures, but also the gangs. There was intense pressure on voters, election board members, and judges to deal with election cases. Before the election, the regional leadership of the SDPU(o) was organized and made massively and openly issuing 20 bracelets per vote to the voters. This was done by experts working under similar conditions in the Chercas elections. The executives of the electoral campaign organized a mass distribution of drugs and a collection of signatures to support Nuser from leaders of public organizations working in executives or subordinated to their organizations. However, as a result of numerous sociological polls, the leader of the election race remained another candidate from the faction "Our Ukraine" for the post of city chief Petovka Vasil Vasilovic. That is why an attempt was made to remove him from the court registration the day before the election. And when the trial in the city of Uzhgrad failed, the Ukrainian national deputy member of the SDPU(o) Nestor Schuffritch disrupted the court’s decision and pushed the judge for an hour and a half, forcing him to copy the court’s decision and threatening to get fired otherwise. A day later, a staff member of the President’s Administration appeared in Uzhgorod to determine the possibility of being held accountable by the judge who was handling the case. When it became clear that the chances of winning the SDPI(s) were unrealistic, the technology of overthrowing the elections, the method of anonymous reports of replacing and extensive work and permanent exchange of power were launched. This technology was extended by the First Channel of the State’s Ukrainian Television, which at an amazing rate warmed the situation by spreading false rumors about the replacement of various objects. Before the election, police officers found an anonymous letter and an explosive that had been destroyed without the use of bomb squads. This led to a team of experts from the Ministry of Emergency Situations. The polling stations were double-checked, sealed, and under increased police protection. However, the State Administration of the District has made it necessary, not to start the elections, but to conduct an immediate re-examination of the polling stations for possible replacements of some of them. When the territorial commission refused to implement this directive, new information was received from the law enforcement authorities that it seemed that all the constituencies had been replaced, and a new requirement had been made by the Head of the State of the Rizak district, its Deputy Chomolak, the leaders, the Internal Affairs staff of the Philipczak area and Mukachev Mikolenko to re-examine all the polling stations to replace and postpone the start of the vote until the full completion of the check. I mean, the requirement is to break the election. Only through the direct intervention of the Human Rights Commissioner of Karpachev and the National Deputies of Ukraine has it been possible to prevent the execution of criminal intent and to open the polling stations in a timely manner and to continue voting after 16 hours, when the same leaders demanded that the elections be abolished and that the electorate of the district be permanently disbarred, which turned out to be nowhere to be protected. I ask you not to interrupt my report. Thank you for your attention. After the end of the election, supporters of SDPU(o) led by known even outside Ukraine, criminal authorities on the nicknames Bluk, Kifla, Challi, Osel are the nicknames that, together with their brigades, have recently officially filled out the number of SDPU(o), have tried to recalculate the votes: mass debosses, the destruction of the premises, hindered the export of ballot papers from the polling stations to the election boards. Thus, it was only with the help of the national deputies that the electoral commissions were able to collect protocols and ballot papers and hand them over to the electoral commission. After the vote and the mayor's announcement of Petovka unwanted to the state administration of the area and the SDPU(o), the latter took a course to change the results of the election and to recognize the mayor of the city as an SDPU(o) bet by means of a court. The Supreme Court will still have to examine carefully why Mr. Nuser's appointment as Deputy Chief Justice, Mr. Malerenek Shevczuk, has been referred to another area that has led to a simultaneous and parallel review of similar cases by courts in different areas? But why is it that the Sikh court of the city of Lviv Judge Lesnom, known for its numerous unprecedented decisions in favour of SDPU(o) and its leader Medvedczuk? To examine why the court banned the technical fixation of the trial? Why are the results of the withdrawals at the 15 sites where the unwanted mayor won? While six of them did not even record any violations of electoral legislation. Others include lipo acts that are clearly composed days after the election. According to SDPU(o), the 15-office vote-off allowed Mr. Nuser to be named mayor, who won only 6 out of 36. The next commission knew in advance that Judge Leszny would make such decisions. We had the data. To be recognized as the torturer's city head of the SDPU(o) Nusera, because there were known facts to influence this decision and the judge personally on the part of the Head of State of President Medvedchuk, as we informed the Chief Justice of Malerenko. However, Mr. Mallarenko did not take appropriate action. Special attention was paid to the Ukrainian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the Zakarpatsky region, headed by Mr. Pilick. In addition, an unsanctioned and groundless sleaze in the city of Lviv was organized by the Ukrainian national deputies involved in the trial. The Attorney General was directly handed over the film taken and the official certificate of the member of the Slipper for the National Deputies was removed. We were able to remove these documents when we were being followed. In parallel with the Sikh court of Lvova, a court was held in Mukachevo, where the results of the elections were found to be invalid at three other locations. The territorial electoral commission carried out the decisions of the two courts, adopted a new order on the basis of corrected data. Thus, the election results did not change, and Petovka remained the chosen one. When an attempt to replace the selected city head with a representative of the SDPU(o) by a court failed, the SDPU(o) leaders decided simply to cancel the election results. The last decision of the commission was also brought before the court by one of the candidates. Prior to the trial, the judge is detained, searched, searched, and removed by a service vehicle without proper authorization. The head of the Sikh court in Lviv, Lesnim, did not change the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. A similar case is taken up, which is the subject of an exclusive torture court, and it is being considered and the final decision of the electoral commission is being annulled at a rapid rate. The court is considering a case without the involvement of a territorial commission, which has been ridiculed since the start of a telegraph trial. Yet, the Mukatov City Court, for the benefit of one candidate, has made a diametric opposite decision, according to which the election of the martyr’s head is real, and the election in general and at 18 locations is particularly unacceptable. Thus, Sikh’s and Martyr’s rulings have led to the preservation of the existing state, and today’s city head is exercising his authority, which, contrary to the wishes of the executive branch, he has received from his electorate. But that's not what President Medvedchuk's head of administration was doing. Sorry, I've been interrupted a few times, so let me go on for three more minutes. Yes, but that's not what made President Medvedchuk's chief executive officer. According to his direct initiative by the specialty of Dynamo-Surkis from the city of Kharkiv, the Muchakov City Court immediately arrived under Mr. Medvedczuk's direct authority in the U.S. Attorneys' Association, a member of the Supreme Justice Council of Jezovitov. In her haste, she did not even receive a proper commission from the High Council of Justice to be tested. In her abuse of her position, she sought the materials of six trials, even though the complaint was against one trial. She tried to force the judges in a rude manner, suggesting through the mediator that the decisions that had not been taken by Mr. Medvedczuk should be annulled, and warning that otherwise the judges would be released for violating the oath, although none of the judges made any oaths to Mr. Medvedczuk or to the SDPU. With Jezovov's support in the courtroom as representatives of the SDPU(o) came the above-mentioned criminal authorities, who had previously held a meeting with the prosecutor Mukachevo Mr. Kukurjak, received appropriate instructions and guarantees of inviolability. Only by interfering with the national MPs did this vacchanal end. Yet, the revenge of the criminal structures that grew with the executive power did not fail: On August 14, an explosion was organized and the house of the head of the Mučakov court of Mr. Szczerban was burned, and the building materials were burned again a week ago. What else is going on?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u68	Yuri Mikolaiovich, how long will it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u69	I have one page of text left.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u70	How long does it take?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u71	Two minutes. What actions are still preparing criminal structures under the leadership of Mr. Rizak for the sake of ambition and party interests is not yet known, but the elections of the Mukatov City Head have already entered the new history of Ukraine as record-breaking violations of electoral law by public authorities, using law enforcement authorities and ministries of emergency to break the electoral process, after a violent and criminal pressure on the judiciary to change the outcome of the elections, after the abuse of executive authorities and law enforcement agencies by official positions and their actual rise in criminal elements. Your opinion is proposed by Decree 4087 on the application to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs to take appropriate action and make appropriate personnel decisions. We are aware that actions aimed at breaking up the elections of Mayor Mukachev's mayor were carried out in a criminal way under the direct leadership of the leaders of the SDPI(o) led to a great political opposition on Zakarpatta and caused great mistrust in the executive authorities. At the same time, we asked the question: Why are narrow party interests more important to the head of President Medvedchuk's Administration and to the head of the Government of the Zakarpat region of Rizak than voter's will, respect for the rule of law and the international image of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u72	Please sign up for the questions. Lighten up. Please, Anisimov. The next one is Leovin. It doesn't, does it? Levin. Do you have Anisimov?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Anisimov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, 30th constituency, city of Dniprodj yinsk. Dear Yuri Mikolaiovich, would you please tell us that the attempt to remove the elected mayor of Petevka at this time continues or is it over? Did the commission that worked stop this process, stop it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u74	The situation is in such a way that Petaovka exercises her authority. The Supreme Court of Ukraine is now demanding the cases of both courts: Sikhivski and Mukacevski. However, this issue has not yet been resolved, so one of the points of the proposed decision is that we continue to authorize the commission to act until 01.04. In 2004 Because of the burning of the house’s judges today, criminal abuse takes place. And there must be parliamentary control so that it does not become what it used to be. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u75	Please, Leovin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u76	I ask you to pass the word to Nechiporeku.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u77	Please don't do this. Vladimir Nechiporek. Please, it's not a bug.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u78	Thank you. Vladimir Nechiporuk, 194 constituency. I'd like to ask Mr. Sparrow three questions. Question one. According to the investigation and the investigation, the fire of Judge Szczerbán’s house was caused by a brief closure. On what grounds do you claim that the house of Chewingham was deliberately set on fire? First. The other one. Militia and internal forces acted during the election with one goal: to ensure public order and security. This is evident from the corresponding plans presented by the commissions and other documents. Why are you saying the opposite? And the third question. On what grounds do you claim that the signals about the explosive devices were provoked by the SDPU(o), who established it, why don't you blame Petovka's supporters? And why do you, according to your profession as a lawyer, conduct such an investigation and blame people for their unwarranted questions? Thank you. Answer each one.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u79	First. I have information that the house was not inhabited and that it was essentially not connected to electricity. And that's why the wires couldn't actually burn. And I understand that the investigation was called in this direction from the very beginning, but I have evidence that the explosion was heard a few blocks before. The explosion, it wasn't, the house hasn't been finished yet, you know, and it's completely burned. The same hand set fire to building materials a week ago. So we need to investigate why the investigation is so covered up and, in fact, the case, I realize that this is covered up by the dirty things that have been going on, this is the method of punishment in elections. Next. Two days ago the High Council of Justice tried to convene a meeting where the judge was to write to disqualify him. So both the Supreme Council of Justice and criminality act in a single bond against the same judge. This is exactly the reason why we would react. Yes, of course, I'm not a lawyer, but I have a mandate from the Supreme Council as the head of a committee to follow, and I've had the opportunity to contact everyone: the chiefs of the police, the prosecutors of all levels and the judges. I spoke to the head of the Arbitral Court of Zacarpathia, and all the lawyers and all the judges see it as an act of persecution. This is the fact that a criminal case is open. As for where I'm talking about the members of the SDPU, yes, I have data, we've been talking to the police that those criminal elements were actually being tried, and these are the names I called, and that they're party members, they're just discrediting your party. You need to figure this out. Here's the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u80	Please, Stepan Cloud. Next Semenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u81	The cloud, the faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, the Motherland Party. Dear Mr. Yuri, what is being done around the elections of Mayor Mukacheva goes far beyond the local boundaries, and this is what worries me. It's a pressure attempt on a judge. This is not just personal for judges who have made objective decisions. This is an attempt to intimidate all honest judges. And it's done with the help of the bandit organizations that are being pursued, which are being organized by the SDPU(o) as well as the High Council of Justice, which Mr. Medvedchuk built. So here's a question for me: "Did your faction address this issue and find a set of measures to call here, for example, the Attorney General himself to report on this subject, because the Attorney General's Office isn't just covering it up. To raise the question of the illegality of being the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, Mr. Kiwalov, because this is a threat to our entire judicial system. Have you considered these questions in factions? What are your further actions?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u82	Of course, I'm not going to testify now. But in support of your words, I can say that the judges of the Zakartat district at their meeting have accepted an appeal to the High Council of Justice, to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court about the unprecedented pressure exerted on the judges. Therefore, as the commission of inquiry, we must act. Mr. Nechiporak did not hear the answer to another question that the police were ensuring order. The militia was forced to demarcate and disrupt the elections, and only through the intervention of Nina Carpachov, the Human Rights Commissioner and the Ukrainian National Deputy, did the militia not take the criminal path and ensure that the elections were held. That's what I said. The choices Mr. Rizak has tried to tear up the area, the head of the district centre of the SDPU(o) and the member of your senior party bodies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u83	Please, Bogdan Kostinjuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u84	Dear Yuri Mikolaiovich, what is the outcome of the situation that took place during the elections in Mukachevo do you see so as not to allow such an advantage in the future? So they don't remind us of these messages from the polling stations in the message polls as front messages? How do you appreciate it? How do you feel about the activities of the Supreme Court and the Attorney General's Office regarding the elections in Mukachevo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u85	Well, first of all, we need to make specific personnel decisions. Literally a week ago, his head was released. Chief of Police of the Zakarpatsk district of Philipczak. I think we need to make a decision for the Mukachev City Attorney. Imagine, just one fact about his work. He's on a Mercedes. Mercedes is registered under the numbers of another car, another brand and another citizen. So the D.A. is driving a car with fake numbers. That's just your face. And what this prosecutor can do. When we call on the public prosecutor, not only does the prosecutor come, but these criminal authorities come to consult the prosecutor. And he's in the world of these criminal authorities. And they're on the computer in the police account. It's okay. Please tell me, can such a prosecutor investigate the issue of arson? It will be total political corruption. That's why we need to bring this thing to an end, and we need to carry out serious human resources sweeps everywhere at the level of the area and at the level of the President's Administration. Because the actions of the head of the Medvedchuk government affect the image of Ukraine as a totally corrupt state.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u86	Valentina Seminouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u87	Semenyuk, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Mr. Yuri, aren't you told that the elections in Mukachev were a rehearsal for the presidential election? Because if you read the material in the newspaper "Silski News", which Ivan Sidorovich Boki gave about the new minister who said that the police should go to the party, to politics, to manage, to have a specific conversation with the right MPs. Is this not a rehearsal? Moreover, the appointment of Mr. Bilocon with such expressions and with such expressions, and the meetings of law enforcement officials, would it not now be a rehearsal throughout Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u88	I agree with you. The elections in Mukachevo were held by a team that came from all over Ukraine and specializes in bribery of voters as such. A very high-flying lawyer was involved. And the decision of the Sikh court, to my profound conviction, was written in the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I have the testimony of the judges of the Supreme Court. In these elections, the mechanism of judicial overlapping of the results of the elections was in place. And this is certainly the work of those polytechnologists who will work for future presidential elections. But you realize that there's no chance of winning those technologies, not even the city's, but the President's, and long ago. That's why Mr. President is encouraging political reform to protect his position here in the Supreme Council by means of political corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u89	Please, Basil Nadrag.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u90	Dear Yuri Nikolayevich, distinguished radio audience! I am not a member of the faction “Our Ukraine” or a member of the Social Democratic Union. That's why I'm going to let myself be told. I am deeply convinced that today's consideration of the issue shows that political struggle involves different actions. And to be honest, I have little doubt as to why one of the interested parties received, for example, the President's quota for the interim investigative commission. Because today a member of the “Our Ukraine” faction is reporting on the rostrum. Surely there are, I think, options for subjectivity. But that's a second time. I have a question directly to the commission of inquiry and to you, your honor, Yuri Nikolaevich. Tell me, jealously, what guidelines, what legislation were violated by MCS employees, other rapists, when, when they found an anonymous letter and explosives, they began checking the selected sites for the same explosives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u91	I can tell you that everything has been done to ensure that the MCS and the militia are not overacted. And the districts were checked three times before the elections. And so we were able to prevent what was being prepared. Now, with regard to the fact that the commission of inquiry reflects the point of view of our Ukraine, of course. Since the Constitution of the Investigative Commission is voted on by a third of Parliament. And the mechanism of the commission of inquiry is to protect the rights, the political rights of minorities that the Constitution has guaranteed us, and which I have the honour to defend and represent here.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u92	Time's up, please sit down. Dear colleagues, I suggest we continue our work without interruption. Please, Vladimir Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u93	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have signed up as a deputy, but I would like to speak as chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. The elections in Mukachevo showed how organized crime works, how consolidated, co-ordinated all decisions taken in the center and carried out in places directly in Mukachev. Let's think! For some reason, the head of the Zakarpat district’s U.M.S.A. is directing U.S. agents to fight organized crime, apparently knowing that this is organized crime there in Mukachevo, to observe and control elections. It would be no wonder if a senior lieutenant or captain was in charge of this group, but he is directing a group of twelve lieutenant colonels who are directly doing all the operational work! One second. It's about time. We'll get to court. Instead of turning to the local court for territorial jurisdiction, as required by the Civil Procedure Code, the application goes to the Supreme Court. And I am very sorry that the Supreme Court, which was honored by Judge Boyko - head of the Supreme Court, got involved in political games and directed something strange again. the application for a hearing in Sikhivsky Lvivsky, not in Czernowietské local or Poržvinograd district of Zakarpatsk. These are all planned shares, and this is all a well-planned action. Question three. Why is the inspector of the Supreme Council of Justice arriving without an assignment, without an assignment, to interpret the proper conduct of the judge? It wouldn't be strange if she hadn't landed on a charter plane called Dynamo-Kiyev, that's the second fact, because we have in the committee data that the same aircraft is using, proven fact, the head of the Tax Administration of the Lviv region of Medvedchuk-young. Excuse me, commercial secrets? Commercial? But we read the article of the fifth law on combating corruption, which clearly states that the use by an official for personal purposes of commercial facts is corruption, and these facts need to be told. The next question is: Why are the DAI inspectors involved in the trial, regardless of the status of the judges, stopping those judges who make decisions in the city from taking their licenses, putting them on the hood, and interfering with violent acts? Question: "Why?" Because in this country, as our famous satirist said, which we all know, because we are at that age, which we remember, "we don't care about the law." And spit out the excuses they're about to make. And you'll hear that from their point of view it was happening in the country. I remember the Rules. I want to warn the Ministry of Internal Affairs, when such a sweep of the frontal one that it experiences today, it never knew, but I'm more concerned with the Minister's remarks in the presentation of new U.S. officials that the militias should not be outside the political process that they should be involved in politics. The Zacarpathian region states that they must make an effort to make changes to the Constitution. People are good, 2003! Not in 1647, but in 2003. And about these facts that are happening in Macechevo and now, we have to scream, we have to shout, we have to cry: don't let democracy in Ukraine be threatened! And we're not talking. That is why it is appropriate today in this room to discuss violations of legislation, law, and the Constitution in the elections in Mukachevo. But, as the ancients said, it's no use arguing with those who yield to principles. In principle, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u94	Please, Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u95	Dear Mr. Chief, distinguished colleagues! I had to be in these, well, let's say, open-minded, wild choices, wild by the way they're torn apart. Mukachev himself had to attend the meetings of the Sikh Court and if all these documents were to be considered as a member of the commission of inquiry. I can honestly tell you that a number of elections, including the elections I had in my district back in 2000, when more than once tried to break electoral legislation, are not compared to the one that happened in Mukachevo. It was, indeed, full of apopheus, apopheus of savagery and brutality, of confidence in its impunity. And with regard to the elections in Mukachevo, the head of the commission of inquiry said that quite well. I would like to make a warning at the next point, which is particularly fatal and is not only related to Carpathia and Mukachev himself with judicial authority and its colossal control. A number of national deputies were present at the meeting of the Sikh district court. And I'm very sorry that they didn't want to come to this meeting to deputize other factions just to look at, especially the majority factions, how they would block their next election now to the Supreme Council, when one of the political powers, already the majority, would want to get rid of today's comrades and their next competitors. Because it would be a very good science, so it's being shot by the Sikh court, this meeting, not just in the Mukachev problem and not just in the President's election issue, but in the next parliamentary election. Because the President's election, as we know, is not going to be a new initiative. So once again, I want to remind you of some nuances. First. The direction, the choice of territoriality -- once, on the one hand, the obvious conjuncture -- is only before that judge, who conducted all court hearings in matters involving Sergey Medvedczuk, the head of the Lviv tax officer, the brother-in-law of Victor Medvedczuk, who conducts cases in which the business interests of those close to the same lion's tax case are necessarily related to all cases involving, let's say, a charge of tax decisions that are always correct in the "traps" of conclusion. Second, the very procedure for filing a claim that violated all the rules. When the initiators of the application were not allowed to do the task at the proper time, they did not even permit the filing of the application, to register the normal application before the Sikh Court, I apologize, before the Mukatsov Court, and immediately ran to the accountable and faithful head of the Supreme Court and to the deputy head of the Shevchuk Supreme Court. And the main thing is the complete apopheus in the Sikh District Court, when the notion of a secret council was exchanged in the council room, when the document was read, the decision of the court, which was written in advance, can be confirmed, because it had falsified and disregarded the facts of the second day of the court's decision, the second day of the trial. Full falsification of documents. On the other hand, I want to make a one-off conclusion. We need to understand that this is not a matter of opposition, just, let's say, Pietovka and Nuser. This isn't about confronting our Ukraine and the U.S.A.U., it's a little bit more. This means that anyone who is present in this room or ever has the right to gain the trust of the people and come to this room will be faced with the same methods. If we keep quiet this time because of any corporate interests, the situation in Mukachev will happen again every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u96	The word is given to Nestor Schufrich. The next one is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. Indeed, very interesting events took place on June 29, both before and after that in the city of Mukachev. The first thing we wanted to point out was that the investigating commission, which I can't fail to respect, is that it was created by a Supreme Council ruling of nine members, had four members from Our Ukraine, three representatives of the opposition, to which I respect with the utmost respect, as opponents who deserve respect, Ratushniak, who wandered away in most and representatives of the NDP. Dear colleagues, I'd like a few briefs, as the elections in Mukachev began, to prepare for the election. During the establishment of the territorial electoral commission, 95 percent are directly or indirectly related to either city authority or directly to Barva, the founder and real owner of which is John Balog, the national deputy and the city head in the past. And it's not possible to talk about the administrative resources of anyone but our Ukraine and Baloga personally in Mukachev. Next, about 280 members of the territorial election boards, the electoral boards, only one as a bully, a member of the united Social Democrats. We don't have to say that this is the opposition of SDPU (o) and our Ukraine, although today we are ready to accept this challenge. We can't help but mention today that the 41 public organization Mukachev has publicly posted in the newspapers of Nusera and has supported and among them their local leadership, such as the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, the Sobor Party, the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the People's Democratic Ukraine, the Party of Regions and others. Dear colleagues! I stress this highest regard for the mayor of Ernest Nusser, who now serves as deputy district councillor and served as mayor of the city of Mukachev and enjoys the utmost respect for the tormentors. It's about agitation. One fact. A day before the election, a car belonging to his Baloga brother stopped at three agitators — girls and two boys. All three were beaten up, and the group leader was thrown in the trunk, brought to the Barva company, which belongs to Balozi, tortured, personally Baloga. On this point, we are now investigating, but considering that Baloga Viktor Ivanovich is involved in this, we are waiting for the Attorney General's decision to bring a criminal case against him. Elections are now under way. There's Taras Cranwell here, whom I treat with the utmost respect, and I want him to confirm my words, if, I hope he has the courage and the decency, I emphasize, I respect him with the utmost respect. About the first hour of the night in one of the districts, I come up and ask the head of the district commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u98	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, please. He gives his word to Vladimir Nechiporak Nestor Schufrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u99	I ask you to respect the decision of the Conciliation Council. Notice that we did not stop anyone. Dear colleagues! About 12 o’clock in the morning, I went to one of the districts and found that the count of votes did not begin. Why? Because of other areas, there was information that Nuser would win. That's what the head of the district commission said to me, "We'll start counting if we want." My colleagues from "Our Ukraine" arrived, and Taras Cnerwell approached the head of the district commission and said, "That's not clear anymore, start counting." But it was still the best case that took place that night, on the night of the counting of votes during the vote. There were times when the head of the district commission had not announced the case at all, and there was a witness from the national deputy Haydosh, who had taken the materials and simply went to the territorial commission without even declaring the results of the elections. All of this was given an evaluation in court. Why did we ask? The candidate made a request not to be considered in Zakartat, and it was the Supreme Court that addressed it, and there was a logic here, because it was impossible to deal with the case in Zakartat. And, of course, a request to the Supreme Court to refer this case to another court. Who made the deal? Yushchenko said, "I spoke to Mallarenko three times, everything will be fine." He claimed that, by the way, publicly. Indeed, regarding cases before the courts. The Sikhov District Court had five days to consider Nuser’s appeal to the election, and Nuser, by the way, had lost only about 2,000 votes. 15th. The decision of the Shikhiv Court after a five-day hearing of the case involving all parties has ruled that the results of the 15th district election have been reversed, including the ones I told you about. The next day, at 2 p.m., a meeting begins in Mukachev, where the results are canceled by the other 6 polling stations of the Mukatsov Court, where the interested person Neser, who was already in fact the mayor, is not even invited as a party. But the decision of the court is a decision of the court, we cannot disrespect it. Nesser appealed to the Sikh court in connection with the new circumstances that followed the decision of the Mukatov Court to annul the entire election decision, because out of the 31,000 people who took part in the election, 18,000 were cancelled by the courts of different courts. the courts of Mukachev and the city of Lvova. So it's clear that he's in court. a clear decision of the court on the annulment of the results of the elections in general. Interestingly, when they were brought in connection with the exclusive application of P. and Nuser’s complaint to the Supreme Court, the Sikh Court came in three days. And the Mukachovsky case didn't come today! For the third month, Mukachevo does not give his rulings and cases so that the Supreme Court can at least consider them. I am convinced that this also shows how correct the court’s decisions were. But we cannot fail to respect an independent branch of government. The only administrators who are today in the Zacarpathian Court of Appeal and in the Mukatov City Court, I don't think they can take office. Dear colleagues, I ask you to respect the decision of the Conciliation Council, which has given me the opportunity to report. And by the way, Victor Andryovich Yushchenko didn't object. Next. If. Dear colleagues, if you won't let me speak today, then you're wrong, and you'll admit it publicly. Next, about the events that took place after the vote. When the first requirement and the birth gave me the word that he would give me the opportunity to count the ballots, Nuser’s unsatisfying demand was. And more than that, it was decided to burn all the ballots immediately. And it was only the intervention of the prosecution, which executed the court's decision to provide all the documents that were relevant to the court for the purpose of providing documentation, that the ballots were not burned. The only thing I understand is Mr. Ivancho here is indignant. But we know how he jumped through the fence, and it's recorded with video, pressing it to keep the ballots from being destroyed. At your age, well, you can treat yourself differently and with the respect you have. And another trailer. When a representative of the High Council of Justice arrived, the National Deputies from Our Ukraine, the Robin, the Red One, the Pavlovenko, the good news that Yushchenko had left before, led the High Council of Justice's representative to the point that, in order to break free from their pressure, she prevented the method of jumping out of the window. Dear colleagues. From the courtroom window. You've led a woman to this, dear colleagues. Well, and with regard to those events that were discussed on the subject of arson. Sterban's house burned down. Dear colleagues, this is the head of the Mukatov City Court. Well, that's him. This is the house that he was building, and he had three phase 380 volts lead to it, because there was something he needed to do in the pool. We also wondered why this house was burned down. On the eve of the day, a martyr's judge refused to sue Barva against the tax inspection for charging Barva to pay taxes for one and a half million dollars. Maybe it's revenge. Or maybe it was really a set-up to burn down a neighbor's house, which also started burning down Vasil Gargonitch, the editor-in-chief of the Panorama newspaper, the only opposition before. Newspapers. Dear colleagues, by the way, there's still an export electricity line near Sterban's house. You could have pulled the wire from it. And I want to remind you, dear colleagues, of criminality. The son - in - law, whom you say you set something on fire, was convicted in Slovakia for stealing cars. And this is the son-in-law of the Mukachev City Court. Why are you talking about this? Is this not a link between criminality and martyrdom? And about Zaborowski when he was stopped. He had everything. He had no ID, no Tethalon, and he did an RV, and he only had a judge's license, which the police treated with respect. And I agree with you that the police have taken on a lot. Because in those circumstances, under the facts available that were known on the morning of the elections, people could not be allowed to hold elections. But the police have given evidence that she has conducted all the tests and is responsible for the safety of the people. And the last. Conclusions. Dear colleagues, I don't think the composition of the commission can withstand any criticism. The information that was available instead of getting 10 numbers, as Litwin, Head of the Supreme Council, requested, we received an hour before the discussion began. And I think the mayor of the city is illegal today. The decision of the Shikhiv Court has not been overturned. Literally 30 seconds. Thank you. The executive heads of the judicial branch of Zakarpat must be held accountable. And I agree with you here. About Yushchenk Viktor Andryovich. I treat him very well, he's a very good man. But the King is making the world, Victor Andryovich, and you should know about it. And last, last. Dear colleagues, on the eve of these things on the Goverley said, "Jushtenka, yes!"...at which the Goverleys were destroyed. Even the goats know that you have to walk in the mountains. And Mukachevo said to Yushchenk, "No!"
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, everyone takes the rules: the reporter takes the next three minutes, too. Let's all follow the rules, everybody!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u101	Vladimir Yavorowski, "Our Ukraine", Jovkowski Yavorovsky oblasts, Lvivščina. Dear Gennady Andryovich, I am impressed by your generosity and I am absolutely convinced that I await the moment when you vote, when you will preside and give me the opportunity to read my next open letter to the President for 10 minutes because I am always cut off. I think you'll do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u102	Please tell me, why isn't this relevant to the report on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u103	Hennady Andriyovich, there's no co-conspirator in the Rules, and I don't know what was decided. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, I'm very fond of this cool, I would say, the English philosopher Bertrand Russell's phrase is, "For democracy, fools only have the right to vote, for tyranny they have the right to rule the state." Let me, as a person is not completely conflicted in nature, I seek not my enemies, but I always try to look for allies, it doesn't always work. So let me get up a little bit on this conflict. I pictured myself for one moment — we are being listened to by radio audiences today. So what good did they do, what good signals from the legislature this week went to our Ukrainian society to our people? Would you like someone to smile a little bit, or would you like to straighten out their shoulders? Nothing! We're putting on their heads a lot of dirt, a lot of conflict, a lot of misunderstandings. Today it's not just this one-on-one conflict. I want you all to feel and see what's happening today in the Ukrainian State, at which level we've dropped it. I feel great, we've criticized the totalitarian past, so, there, in the 20th century. We took a few steps -- about 1991, 1992, 1993 -- a little bit ahead. Today we are rejected below what was then. You see what's going on in this country. It is a positive decision — to enter the state, for example, into a single economic space or not. The Minister's office has given itself the opportunity: twice was a discussion, no decision was made. This is the third time we've come to the Cabinet of Ministers -- the decision is not made. There's only a question in "The Different" that the Cabinet of Ministers supports. I don't want to argue with Schuffritch. Understand, I was at his election in Cane. Nestor, I went around all the villages. Drunken uncles who were stuck in a pole, I said, "Who did you vote for?" They said, "I was given 20 bracelets and told to vote. Family's very hard, I don't remember, but Nestor's the last one on the list." Because of this, the same election that today is imposed on Ukrainian politics, Ukrainian law, Ukrainian elections, was now in Montenegro, the same is happening in Mukachev on Zakarpatta and will continue. I just really want to, and I urge most: people are good, let's be patient! Most people, do you think you're protected today? You may be less protected even than we are today in opposition. Because of this, I am absolutely convinced, and we must have this fact. People found out about him. It can't go on like this! We will not be needed by anyone as a nation just in this world! Who will be counted with us when the bandits literally hold elections today?Oh, my God! We are leaving the people beyond the limits of their morals! Who will believe this authority?Oh, my God! I want to scream, but I want to say quietly, if this handwriting that the united Social Democrats have offered today, if this handwriting, and it's being imposed today by Kuchmi and the Ukrainian authorities, if this handwriting is supported by Ukraine, it will all be over.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u104	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzier, please. Then, after the performances.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u105	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Indeed, elections in Mukachev are like local elections. But they are very important in analysing those processes that are already being planned for the elections of the general Ukrainian, parliamentary, presidential elections. And today it's not always been said how these elections were organized and how strongly the results of the elections do not want to agree with the Social Democrats, because in their principle the thesis dominates that the people -- you voted wrong, and so we will correct you and not accidentally, dear friends, you understand where Mukachevo is, where Kyiv is, where Lviv is. [[United]] Why, then, the Lviv Local Sikh Court? Why was the outcome of the elections in Mukachevo brought before that court, because once again Mukacheve - the candidate from the Social Democrats, Kyiv - the head of the President’s Administration, Lviv - the younger Medvedchuk, who is practically in charge of the Lviv region. [[United]] Regrettably, the Lviv judges, many of the local judges, are being set up by the Social Democrats, the local organization. [[United]] And most interestingly, they're specialized. There are courts that solve problems of the household, tax administration always refers, mostly to the same court where the pre-prepared decision is prepared, and every entrepreneur, a businessman, to make him, whatever the argument may be, he loses to the Lviv tax administration. The Sikhov local court specializes in electoral matters. Before that, the question of resignation, the resignation of a member of the district council, Sergio Medvedchuk, was considered. Sergey Medvedczuk was also rescued by the Sikh court, which annulled the results of the work of the initiating group following the withdrawal of Sergey Medvedczuk and then did everything possible for Sergey Medvedczuk to call off the caller Jaroslav Korzynski. So we have it again. How much of this rostrum did I not speak of a formed clan, not a political power, not a political party, but a clan that has provided itself with appropriate positions in the law enforcement bodies, in the courts and acts as unpunishedly as was spoken here today from this rostrum. You see, the judge of the forest who was looking into the case, no one burned the house down. "Our Ukraine" isn't capable of doing that. And the judge who made the decision in Mukachev and made the right decision, which was consistent with the current electoral legislation, burned the house down immediately, then set more building materials on fire, and so on. So, dear friends, as if it were a local matter, but it is disturbing, this example must alert us, for, as has been said here, this is really a rehearsal before the future parliamentary elections, the presidential elections. The colossal money that the Lvivsky Clan, the SDPU, the Tax Administration, the Western Regional Customs, the Yavorów Region, where the special economic zone functions, imagine, is in the hands of the same clan as the colossal money, the billions of financial flows accumulate to buy voters tomorrow, so that Shufritch will not be able to afford 20, but 50 dollars to give to Sergey Medvedchuk again to computerize schools to give the temples appropriate crosses, Gospels, and so on. That's the danger and what this fact of election or outcome or election procedure in Mukachev is alerting us to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, follow the Rules. This applies to everyone. Yuri Petrovich Solomatin.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u107	Yuri Solomatin, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, those who have remained in this room, the distinguished radio listeners! It is my destiny that we now have the opportunity to sum up the discussions between the two predatory packs that met in a terrible battle, not for life, but for death in Mukachev. Both forces are bourgeois, they both spit on the Ukrainian people, they both care only for their own interests. For 15 minutes the report was presented here by a representative on one side, then supported by six speakers. A representative of that force spoke and tried to prove his individual truth. People of the good, Ukrainian suffering people! The cunning uncle who is now on the wire listening to the Supreme Council, the very representative of the Ukrainian people who has failed and is not going to the elections, is the sly uncle who is the most beloved citizen and the favorite elector of these predatory groups, because you do not need to work with him and you do not need to be bribed. And the one who thinks about the power to lay low and makes his decision at the last minute for 20 bucks, that is, for a bottle of beer and for a pie, it is you, the cunning uncle, who sells not only your destiny, not only the fate of your loved ones, children, and grandchildren, but also the fate of our independent Ukraine to these predators. So I want to say this. People of Good, Suffering Ukrainian and People! Don't believe those who came to me from this rostrum. They're fooling you and fooling you! What do you want to do? We need to remove both forces from power. It is the Soviet authorities who must be reinstated. And if you vote for the Communist Party, the best sons and daughters of the Ukrainian people, you win! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Instead of 45 minutes, we've been discussing this for an hour. I suggest we take the risk. From the lines, please. That's it, that's it, that's it. I'm in control of what's on my monitor right now. Yes, please calm down. Yeah, with motive. Please, a line. Taras Cranville. Next, Yuri the Sparrow. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! You know, good work is done with good hands, evil intentions and dishonesty. When my last name was mentioned, I confirm that we really, really had a good time with Mr. Nestor Schuffritch right there. But the difference is, I didn't get there at 11:00, because at this time, I was in another area where I was an observer, but at 1:00 a.m. And at that moment, he came here for the very reason that there, as the MPs had been told from -- let's not mention not to take a new line -- factions blocked the count of votes, prevented them from working. By the time we got here, thank God, it was the result. The problem was removed and the calculation went perfectly with its own pace, though the commission and the managers, and they were all led to a nervous breakdown. So using my last name, I can confirm. Please tell the whole truth. The only thing I can confirm is that we talked to Mr. Nestor Sufrich in a calm and calm way.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u110	Please, Yuri Orobec is a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, since the previous reports said that my last name and the work of the commission of inquiry were, I want to say that you can be wrong, but in the facts, it's not right. When there was a vote on the creation of a commission of inquiry and a staff force, there was no proposal for an SDR, little, no candidate was put forward by the SDR. So there was a blockade on the work of the commission of inquiry. Now it's said that there's another warehouse. Well, please, why didn't you, then your proposals would be completely taken into account. No problem. And that's why I reject these accusations. I'd like to lower the political temperature. These materials need to be sent to the Attorney General, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the National Security Council, the Minister of Internal Affairs, because there's a whole bunch of problems that are actually still going through our society. These elections, they're not the first. Consider the elections in 221 districts where the elections were held four times. I've been through this. You look at the elections that were in Chercas, in Winnice, which were in the Zaporozhye region, which were the elections. It's a system. This system needs to be broken. And that's what I'm asking you to take into account. In addition, I know that a number of national deputies, such as a colleague of Zubov, who was the head of the commission of inquiry in the Donetsk region, did not receive the floor. I'm so sorry. But let's do everything we can to eradicate this political corruption from our Ukraine, and in the presidential election, we didn't burn houses, shoot houses, drop bombs anywhere in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u112	The replica. Nestor Schuffrich. Next up is Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u113	Thank you, Your Honor Hennady Andryovich. I have three replicas of three of my colleagues, Yavorowski, Kendzior, and Robber. Dear Mr. Yavorowski, it's not my fault that my last name begins with the letter "sh," and that's why almost all the ballot papers actually have my last name. But somehow it happens, that almost always on the basis of the vote, I'm the first. That's what happens in life. About what happened in Mukachev. Well, how did it have to prove to the public of Mukachev that after the election 17 parties and leaders of 32 enterprises would address the President of Ukraine. And among the parties, I emphasize, the Motherland union, the Sobor Party, the NDP Party, the Socialist Party. Local leaders asked for a direct presidential rule to be introduced at the time of their investigation. We realize that this is impossible, but people want to be in Mukache’s order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u114	Anatoly Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u115	Thank you, Hennady Andryovich. Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I asked for a word from the lineup for the reason that I was also part of this committee. And now I will not question the conclusion of the committee. However, I would like to answer my colleagues who said that something did not appear to the factions accordingly. I must say that if I had been warned about the date, the place and so forth, I would have been sitting and the commission, and would have gone to Mukachev as well. That's why today, Hennady Andriyovich, I want to make such an offer. That if we are to form similar commissions of inquiry in the future, those who propose should nevertheless know that they are recommending appropriate deputies to these committees. And if they simply unilaterally or bilaterally address these issues, without the full spectrum of the Supreme Council, then it is better not to recommend representatives from other factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u116	Stepan the Cloud and we're done. All of it. Please, Stepan Ilkovich Cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u117	The cloud, the block of Julia Timoshenko, the Party of the Fatherland. Mr. Schufrich misinformed the entire public of the country, said that the Party of Fathers supported their candidate in the mayor's election in Mukachev. This is a lie that was refuted by the head of the Fatherland Party and our faction, Julia Timoshenko. And I, as deputy head of the Fatherland Party, confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u118	Tell me, are we going to finish this consideration or not? Please tell me. We call each other names.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u119	He was misleading.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u120	What are we doing with you?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u121	And the people's deputies, and the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u122	Please, Yavorowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u123	Vladimir Yavorowski. It's my right to MP on the line. I just wanted to, I didn't want to touch it, I thought Mr. Shufrich would just keep his mouth shut. If he touches me again, please, Nestor, the honorable, incorrigible absolute facts -- the information that got the money to vote for Shufrich during the elections in the Cherkas region. It's an indisputable fact with people's signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u124	Basil Nadrag. How long will it take us to consider this question? Let's vote in the hall: 5 hours, let's look at 5! What's going on in our room?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Look closely at the board, it says we've already moved 25 minutes. I have this impression, with all due respect for the two participants in this dialogue, that we are doing, we deliberately call each other to continue the discussion afterwards. Well, so can infinity. There's an agenda. Let's move on. It'll be Thursday, we'll vote back. Everybody said it, everyone understands, well, why are we doing it? Therefore, Gennady Andreevich, I propose to move on to the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u126	Shufrich, are you insisting? Please, Ivancho, then Shufrich, and all, the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u127	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! I was also mentioned in this matter. Ah, Shufrich mentioned it in particular, but I want to answer his questions. Mr. Shufrich, why did Ivancho jump through the fence? And just because you blocked the doors of the Mukachov District Council, they blocked the chains, put 20 morgues, and see if the National MP would pass? And behind his back is the city police chief. The national MP Ivancho, particularly me, has only the strength to jump over the fence. And he leaped, proving to you that you should do so in the attitude of the people’s deputies, putting the mortuaries in front of him by the wall. And you don't have to do that, what you did in all the elections. For 23 years, I had chosen different levels, working as a head for different levels. It's a shame about the elections that provoked the right forces in Mukachev. You can't let that happen in the future, and you have to put a dot on it!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u128	That's enough. Have a seat, please. Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The case that was just referred to was the subject of a hearing by the Supreme Court. And let's respect the court: he admitted that there were no violations during the elections. That's the first one. In Chercas, about Chercas. The following is the fact that someone has not applied for membership of the commission. To this day there are changes to the composition of the commission of inquiry, they have been stalled and have not allowed representatives of other factions to join this commission of inquiry. But maybe we'll do it again. Stepan Ilkovich, I've known you for over 10 years. I have the utmost respect for you. But so it happened that the head of your local party organization supported a nominee named Nuser, who, believe me, deserves it. And, Your Honor, my colleague, Taras Blackwall. I said you were after 12 instead of 11. And that's how you confirmed those words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, each of us has passed the election, either by party lists or in major districts. Each of us realizes what this is. But what's going on in the hall right now is embarrassing. I don't want to judge either side right now. It's up to the court to decide. Court. And we have to go to court. What a trial. Are you saying, "Who are the judges?" Judge who? Whoever you and I choose here, in this room, we're with you through the appropriate committees. If we trust, let us say that either one or the other party should appeal to the court, wait for a decision, in a legal order can be sued either in an appeal or in a cassation and agree with the final decision. Set a dot. All of it. We still have time. I would like to consider: the draft Law on Amendments before. [[We've got time.]] Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences on Responsibility for the Illegal Crossing of the State Border of Ukraine. Reported the first deputy head of the State Border Service, Shisholin Pavel Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u131	Dear Hennaday Andriyovich, distinguished national deputies. This bill was drafted to implement the Ukrainian Presidential decree and the decision of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council of April 25, 2002. The urgent need for draft legislation is due to the need to resolve differences in the qualifications of activities related to the illegal crossing of the state border, which arose after the entry into force, since September 1, 2001, of the Ukrainian Criminal Code of April 5, 2005. There has been a situation in which the distribution of part 1 of article 331 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the distribution of part 1 of article 204 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences are completely identical. The draft law provides: 1. The introduction of amendments and additions to article 331 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the restriction of the crime by the subject of the crime. These are primarily foreigners and stateless persons, and the subjective side, the goal of making these actions last. This is either illegal residence in Ukraine or illegal migration to other states. The introduction of these changes will allow only foreigners and stateless persons, including those who have arrived in Ukraine on legal grounds, education, tourism, and so on, to be criminalized. But then they tried to migrate illegally to other countries. In other cases, foreigners, like Ukrainian citizens, will be subject to administrative responsibility when committing such an offence. The situation today in Ukraine with illegal migration does not yet allow international experience to give up fully the criminal responsibility for the crime, which is a deterrent factor. The second group of changes concerns article 204-1 and articles 262, 263rd and 277th of the Code of Administrative Offences. Part one of article 204-1 after the word "crossing" is proposed to be supplemented by the words "or attempt to cross." Today, according to the content of the law, individuals who have been detained in an attempt to break Ukraine’s border should not be drawn to administrative responsibility. This is according to statistics in previous years and in eight months this year, about 50 percent of all state - border guards detained. The changes to part two of article 204-1 are related to the release from administrative responsibility only of Ukrainian citizens who have been victims of trafficking crimes and who have arrived in Ukraine without documents. That's exactly how the question today is addressed by article 331 of the Criminal Code. With regard to the proposed amendments to articles 262, 263 and 277 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, it must be said that these amendments have already been introduced by the Ukrainian Act of 3 April 2003 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian State Border Service Act. In this regard, we propose to adopt the draft as a basis and to take into account the legislative changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences when preparing the draft for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u132	Please sit down, we're moving with the procedure. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Markusz Maria Andriyevna, will report, please. We're on the same page, please sign up for the performance, and we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u133	Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear colleagues! Bill number 3186 has been removed. As for Bill No. 3033, it was designed to implement the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Decision of the Council of National Security and Defence of 25 April 2002 on strengthening the security of the State border of Ukraine in the context of combating international terrorism, illegal migration and drug abuse of 11 June 2002 at number 532. But it aims to remove the identity of the disposition of part 1,204-direct of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences and article 331 of the Codex Ukraine. The Criminal Code of Ukraine, which establishes responsibility for the same act, is the illegal crossing of the State border of Ukraine. Although it has been decided by the committees to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis for the first reading, I tend to think that this bill should be sent to the author of the legislative initiative to resubmit him to the first reading in order to write him better, because he has a lot of comments. That is, part 1 of this article duplicates the position of the current article 331 and adds additional features to the objective side of the illegal crossing of the State border of Ukraine that characterize the way this action is done — crossing the state border of Ukraine abroad or that contain unreliable information about a person’s documents or without them; crossing the state border of Ukraine with the avoidance of border control through the use of secretaries and other means or means that make it difficult to identify persons in transport vehicles. However, these methods are entirely covered by the existing article 331 of the Criminal Code by formulating a crossing between the State of Ukraine in any way at the points of entry through the State of the Ukraine, but without appropriate documents or permission, and therefore there is no need to define them, in my opinion. Secondly, the words "or without them" in the context are understood in such a way that it is a crime to consider crossing the state border of Ukraine without foreign documents or without documents that contain unreliable information about a person. Although it really has to be the other way around. Thirdly, the absence of the words “or permission” in article 331 of article 331 of the Criminal Code, as well as the absence of the word “illegal” at the beginning of the sentence, requires that persons who, in accordance with the laws and international treaties of Ukraine, have the right to cross the State border without any special documents with only one permit be criminalized. They're security personnel, nature guards, rescue personnel, and others. A new edition of article 331 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code proposes that this action be partially discriminated against, restricting its illegality only to acts for a certain purpose, namely, the purpose of permanent illegal residence in Ukraine or illegal migration to other states. However, such formulation is flawed because both administrative and criminal responsibility for the illegal crossing of the State is excluded in cases where a foreigner or a stateless person has a purpose of temporary illegal residence in Ukraine with further migration to other states on legal grounds or temporary illegal residence in Ukraine with further return to his country. In doing so, it is virtually impossible to establish the project’s objective in a reliable manner. It will be quite difficult because this will depend primarily on the testimony of the detained person, who, in addition to all the difficulties associated with the lack of sufficient qualified East Asian and African translators, has a constitutional right in accordance with article 63 of the Constitution of Ukraine not to give evidence of himself, family members or close relatives. These and other shortcomings of the law will be used by illegal migrants, since the project significantly complicates the implementation of article 331 of the project’s practical provisions. Now, as the drafters point out, the vast majority of people who illegally cross the State of Ukraine are drawn to administrative responsibility. From the administrative and legal means of influencing people who illegally cross the State of Ukraine, much more impact. These misdemeanors are mass. The foreign military authorities and investigators of the U.S.S.A. are unable to prosecute criminal cases, conduct investigations and investigations into all the facts of these offences. Administration is much more rapid and much cheaper for the State budget than knowledge, investigation and judicial review. With regard to the application of article 204 prim. The Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences of a fine ranging from 40 to 100 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes to every person who illegally crossed the State of Turkey would bring millions of dollars to the State budget each year, which could be directed towards the removal of illegal migrants from Ukraine. While the proposed arrests, restrictions of will, or deprivation of liberty are only costing the State budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u134	Maria Andriyevna, please tell me, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u135	That's it, I'm done. So article 204 prime. Ukraine’s Codex should be better suited to all comments. And with regard to Bill No. 3033, I ask that he be returned to the author of the legislative initiative for the resubmission of the first reading, and I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u136	That's the main thing to say. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u137	Indeed, the committee considered these two bills and decided to support in the first reading the bill proposed by the government to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code to the Code of Administrative Offences. And it should be said that the situation is clear, that is, the good intentions of the government are clear. And, of course, the situation that, unfortunately, we have with the violators of the border, those who freely enter the Russian border. And we're detaining them, we're not letting them into the west, so Ukraine has turned into a bag of emigrants who, once again, are very easily infiltrated through the Belarusian, Russian border, that is, through the eastern, northern, we're holding back here and we have to hold back. And as a way out, they decided to apply administrative punishment to those who tried to cross the border. And at the same time, the people who transported in the case of what happens across the border as normal cargo. But I don't think that this way, in person, is my idea that this way can reduce the number of foreign citizens who will enter our western borders. This should be about strengthening the protection of the eastern border. I don't know if this bill can affect that. If we close the eastern and northern borders, from the entry of aliens here, we're talking about countries that are developing there or just from countries where there are military conflicts and where there are political refugees, we're not going to have to talk about having a problem with them here in Ukraine anymore. Because I doubt that there will be very many Polish, Slovak or Hungarian citizens, or even Romania, who will want to cross the entire Ukrainian border, throw everything there and settle in Ukraine in search of a better destiny. No, I think that someday, years later, a lot of this is going to happen, but there's no such problem right now. That is why there is a problem in the northern and eastern borders. And that's something you have to say clearly. And now these laws, unfortunately, even if we accept them, they don't solve this problem and they don't solve it. And the differences between, that is, the doubling is the Criminal Code and the Administrative Code, and they're incorrigible here. But I would suggest what we could do here. Along with the committees, because I think there will still be a proposal for a hall -- to work with the committee, with Maria Andriyevna, who has just reported here from the rostrum and to propose a strict regulatory law that will in principle have no warning because of passing this room, to which I call the representatives of the Ukrainian foreign forces. I think we'll find a common language on the committee here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u138	The report is over. Let's go to the discussion: two in, two in, two in. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin. Next Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I would like you to take a look at the conclusion of a science-expert administration, which clearly states that, as a result of the review, this bill should be sent for further work. Such raw bills should not be brought to the fore, especially in the case of amendments to the Criminal Code. One of the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code is the proposal to change the nature of the crime, for which a person may be brought to criminal responsibility, is part one of the first article 331 - if the purpose of the illegal crossing of the border across the state border is to reside permanently in Ukraine or to migrate illegally to our country. Such an editorial at the disposal of the article greatly reduces its practical application. It will be enough for the accused to point out that he was trying to illegally cross the state border, not for permanent residence, but for the temporary -- and he can no longer be held criminally responsible for the article. It is absolutely inappropriate for a person to be held criminally responsible for an article at an illegal crossing of the state border of Ukraine for the purpose of illegal migration to another foreign country. Thus, a foreigner who has the right to legally, I emphasize, legally migrate to a foreign country may illegally cross our state border, without fear of the imposition of the punishment provided for in article 331 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The bill does a terrible thing for Ukrainian citizens who have crossed the state border without a document, if they have become victims of a crime involving trafficking in human beings. This was foretold in part 4 of article 331. Such an offer is inhumane and socially unjust. Crimes associated with human trafficking have become more vulnerable to the population, who have not received adequate living conditions in Ukraine, and they try to set up their lives abroad. Having become victims of crimes involving trafficking in human beings, they tend to be without documents and livelihoods and without knowledge of a foreign language. Persecuted by criminals, trying to get to the Fatherland in any way. Is it a matter of drawing people to criminal responsibility? I agree with the editorial proposed by Mr. Havronuk and Lisak of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, in article 204 of the Code on Administering the Illicit Crossing of the State Border: "The interception or attempt to cross the state border of Ukraine in any way beyond the border of Ukraine, or even at points of entry through the state border of Ukraine, but without the appropriate documents or permission of the relevant government documents, carries a fine of 50 to 100 non-taxable minimum incomes of citizens, or corrective work for a period of up to one month, including 20 per cent of earnings or administrative arrest. The same actions performed repeatedly or by a group of individuals."and there's already a penalty of 100 to 200 untaxed minimums. And to write that validity does not extend to cases of return to Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens who have illegally crossed the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Boris Bespali. Are you in favour or against? Do you object to being in favor? Or is it against you?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u141	No, thank you, Hennaday Andriyovich. I'll make my position quite clear, as always, as Victor Yushchenka's Block "Our Ukraine," the Ukrainian People's Party, from which I'm speaking now. In general, the problem is very urgent, because illegal migration, it is of great concern to all people, it is of great concern to all Ukrainians, and it is ineffective to fight it, so it is probably worth changing the relevant articles of the Criminal Code and the Administrative Code. But there is a question. Indeed, if the same composition is at the same disposal in both the Administrative and the Criminal Code, which one should be left behind, or perhaps the others. But in our view, the main thing here is the irreversibility of responsibility for actions. And from this point of view, I would listen very carefully to the presentation by the representative of the Andria School Committee, who said that we have no control over migration flows at all. You see, migration flows in Ukraine are mainly from east to west and from north to west. Meanwhile, the protection of the State border is built, perhaps under the momentum, in such a way that the western borders are protected, the eastern borders are not protected. And it is in this context that the intention to join the EP, where there will be no borders at all, that there will be no eastern borders at all, that will only increase migration flows that we would not then adopt. Now. The next problem is whether to bring criminal responsibility to those who are merely objects of illegal border crossings, such as those hidden in secret and brought here as illegal labour. To our conviction, the responsibility must be borne by all, because all grown-ups are acting completely consciously, and then what they then explain, well, clearly, everyone explains that he didn't want to, that it just came out. But the irreversibility of responsibility is the most effective way to combat it. The next problem is that the difference between the illegal crossing of the border and the situation is not taken into account when the term for being in Ukraine, which was legal, but became illegal. I think there's got to be a significant difference here too, and we don't have to extend this category of criminal liability in any way. In view of the fact that this bill is needed in general, it cannot be rejected. But considering, on the other hand, that he is very imperfect, he cannot be accepted. So the optimal solution that the committee proposes is rereading the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u142	Please, Bartock's deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u143	Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies. The problem of protecting the state’s border and resisting illegal immigration are closely linked and have become quite relevant in our country. These problems are not only due to the fact that globalization processes in the world are taking place but also to the fact that the state is in a geographical location. The conceptual idea of harmonising administrative and criminal legislation in this area does not require any particular argument. That's understandable. However, the specificities of the bills that we are considering today go far beyond their own mere reconciliation process. It is a clear definition of the ratio of regulatory mechanisms of administrative and criminal legislation in the area of resistance to the illegal cross-border of the state border. After all, the 2001 Criminal Code has been amended to show that article 331 is contained in it, and it is almost entirely reproduced in the Administrative Code. Since Maria Marcus has withdrawn her bill, I will stop on the government bill. Here, to clearly qualify the relevant acts as a crime or an administrative offence, it is suggested that article 331 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine should be clarified by specifying the manner in which the crime is committed. Also, partially decriminalize criminal acts by separating those who constitute an increased social danger from them, namely, for the purpose of permanent illegal residence in Ukraine or illegal immigration into the territory of another State. Experts from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration rightly pointed out the legal flaws in the new wording of Article 331 of the Criminal Code, and suggested that, in general, the third path should be chosen, namely, the abolition of the 331st Criminal Code, limiting the scope of responsibility for the illegal crossing of the state border to administrative responsibility. Interesting is this argument in support of these, at first glance. But if you look at it in more detail, all of these arguments create a sense of persuasiveness, although first, fines are provided not only in the Administrative Code, but also in the Criminal Code. So nothing prevents expanding its scope by changing the corresponding financial sanctions. And second of all. It's naive to think. That the mass of wrongdoing can be accomplished by mitigating responsibility. I don’t think we should be driven by just fiscal interests, but I don’t see the point in softening legal responsibility. So I think that in the course of this discussion it is necessary to send a government project to read again, to take all our comments into account, and then to consider and accept as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Question completed. As for the vote, it will take place according to the rules. Now let's move on to the other one. We've got an hour to do this. Differently, I'm sorry. Light up, please. Anatoly Grzezhev. Next Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u145	Anatoly Grázev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear Gennady Andreevich! In my statement, I would like to point out, in my view, that the most important issue is the attitude of power towards people. The fact that the present life for the absolute majority of citizens is difficult and unsuspecting is known to all. Poverty, the daily struggle for survival, fear has led to the processes of the physical extinction of millions of people. The more tragedy you can't imagine. It would seem that, at such a staggering scale, the current power from the bottom to the top should take immediate measures to protect its citizens from the disasters they are experiencing. Unfortunately, this is not happening in practice. More like the opposite. Indifferent, full disregard for the needs of the majority of the population is the essence of power. There should be no such thing in a democratic country. We have statements of economic growth, the development of democracy, the stabilization of production and so on. Indeed, it is nothing more than a word of error and a lie to its citizens. I cannot give any examples of so-called reforms that would benefit people. And here's the thing. The authorities know about it. But the policy of attacking citizens continues, leading many to despair. A system has been established whereby any officer of any calibre, any representative of a businessman or businessman can make a decision without considering its implications for the people. Such examples are numerous. Socialists have been insisting for almost 10 years on the need to change the current system of government. But the train, as they say, is there now. That's what he's doing. Taking the most sinister and painful issue for people is rising prices for essentials and housing and utilities. The situation here is called infertility. In order to justify their inaction and inability to influence the situation, the authorities are motivated by the market. Mole dictates his rights. I hereby responsibly state that in the current order we had no, no, and there is no market. We have a gang market run by mob gangs. Go into any trading territory, ask the prices at the same point and you can't go any further, the prices will be the same. This means that there is strict control over this issue. And we're talking about the market. In this regard, in contrast to some views, I have always welcomed and considered it necessary to involve the Government and the authorities in these problems, including administratively. It would be appropriate to declare a moratorium on price increases. And another example. Now, many Kievers are outraged by the "will" television company. If citizens had previously paid 4 bracelets per month for television, they would now pay 7.20 for the same services. I mean, 1.8 times more. I'm asking a question. If a citizen were to go into a pocket and take money, how would they qualify? Answer one: Stealing with the right consequences for a thief. There's a lot of crowds in the middle of the day, and nobody cares. I'm not talking about the constant movement of TV channels. I therefore appeal to the Attorney-General's Office, the Antimonopoly Committee, to my esteemed Omelchenka Alexandrovich to assess such actions, to stop the laden people and to knock on the hands of other people's pockets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! Today's Anatoly Dmitrovich's birthday, that's why. It's okay, he's gonna change the rules and 10 minutes. It's okay. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u147	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to draw your attention to two very serious and final-minute questions -- please hand over Vitalia Ivanovich Mother at his request, because he didn't have time for the performance. A collection of Zaporozhye Children’s Hospital No. 2 and department staff Children’s diseases at Zaporozhye State Medical University have been called upon to stop the destruction of Zaporozhye hospitals. That is, the violation of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the existing network of public and municipal health institutions cannot be reduced. And you and I took her in here, dear friends. And today, 3rd, 4th, 6th children's hospitals, 4th, 8th, 9th city hospitals are closed on Zaporozhye. I consider such acts of power to be criminal, and the government's inaction to such an extent that it cannot be tolerated further. By the way, the liquidation of these facilities is a violation of the provision of a clinical preventive health care facility, and I'm not talking about the Constitution anymore. In addition, the honourable national deputies and citizens of Ukraine, I want to draw your attention to the fate of the oldest film studio in Ukraine, which is the Odessa Film Studio, which somehow the President of Ukraine cannot be defined as national. As a result, several buildings in its territory are no longer its property. And as a result, Rudolf Otkolenko writes, a well-known winner of international awards: there is no chance that Odessa's film studio will preserve at least the status it has today. I ask you to give my word to Vitalia Mother, and my address to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u148	Hello, Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u149	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, factions of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the "Trubic Ukraine". Statement by the national deputies of Ukraine, members of factions and parliamentary majority groups. We, the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the factions of parliamentary majority parliamentary groups, are deeply concerned about the ex-Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Leonid Kozachenko. The Supreme Council of April 3, this year, decided to establish a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to verify the situation in Ukraine’s grain and bread market, which did not establish a link to the crisis in Leonid Kozachenko’s grain market. So we assured the public that we would not allow prejudice to the case filed by the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office regarding Leonid Kozachenko. Having confidence in the order of the former Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, more than 60 Ukrainian national deputies have appealed to the Attorney General's Office for the release of Leonid Kozachenko from custody and for the transfer of him to custody. The Cave District Court of Kiev satisfied the concerns of the Ukrainian national deputies. Yet, again, the situation in today’s difficult situation warns. Crops and some tension in the agrarian sphere are being tried again to put all the existing problems in the grain market on Cosacenk. Ukrainian national deputies, members of factions and parliamentary groups of majority parliaments, have expressed their opposition to the oppression of the food market and will protect people from undeserved insults, filth and persecutions, whatever they may be and whatever positions they may be. We have confidence that the court will deal with the Leonid Kozachenko case impartially, objectively and fairly, ensuring the rule of law, the key freedoms of man and proving that Ukraine is building a democratic society. The statement was signed by the leaders of the factions of the Agrarian Party, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs and the Labour Ukraine, the People's Choice, the Party of Ukraine, the People's Government, the NDP, the Democratic Initiatives, the European Choice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u150	Vladimir Puzakov, next Proscuratov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u151	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština. Mr. President and Mr. Prime Minister! As representatives of the authorities, you constantly claim the social dimension of the budget and the State's policies. You claim that Ukraine's population economy has developed at a high rate in recent years. So why is it that the people are destroying and the prices are rising so that it's only this year that they've increased by one and a half times that and the pension at the point of death? Your retirement allowance is a mockery and a mockery of a pensioner! And today you have come up with targeted assistance that will help United States rulers to speed up the extinction of deserving people who are the bearers of truth and justice, the pattern of discipline and common sense. As a national MP, the pensioners of Kirovogradina ask me what else will our rulers devise to convert their people and, above all, the poor, the veterans of war and labour, taking their last concessions, replacing their so-called targeted assistance? While in power, some leaders of the alleged opposition parties have shown Ukraine to date how benefits can be taken, they have started this but have not brought it to an end. Probably not enough time. Such targeted assistance would have sent many to the world or to that effect. And not by the heat, as in France, would our pensioners be dying from targeted aid. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers is in a hurry to implement the so-called "address assistance" because there are many other veterans living in the country. It is also horrendous that this decree has been taken without regard to the opinion of the multi-million-dollar Veterans'army, and is now widely deceived and blackmailed by the re-registering of all the aiders allegedly required for the upcoming recalculation of the pension. But that's all wrong. Under this pretext, documents accept voluntary waivers and replacements of their emoluments. Some veterans do not know how miserable the amounts will be, either for rent or for public transportation or for medicines. Officials also understand this, otherwise why would they suddenly hide the true goals and causes of the so-called re-register? This attitude of the State towards its veterans is intolerable, and these people need their protection, and we must protect them. Mr. President, colleagues of the Supreme Council, members of the Government! Do not take upon yourselves the curse of the people, return face to veterans, review your antihuman measures to deprive veterans of war and the work of guaranteed benefits, give them a chance to live their lives peacefully. The veterans of the war and the labour of Kirovogradtina turn to all the veterans of Ukraine: people, wake up and look around, see what our mountain leaders have done to the country, all of you, as one to defend your benefits. If you, a veteran, are willing to stand up for your future during the all-Ukrainian protest that will take place throughout Ukraine on 26 and 30 September this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u152	Please tell me, couldn't I have invested in three minutes? Please, Proskurat Tamara Sergiyevna. Next Slatenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u153	Tamara Proskuratov, faction of SDPU. Dear colleagues, I was going to speak on a very different subject today, but during today's discussions, I decided to talk, perhaps unusually, from the Supreme Council's rostrum about our parliamentary ethics. To this day, I, teachers, do not get used to, as unforgivably, the ceremonylessly from the high rostrum during speeches in the districts of MPs pour the filth of their colleagues from factions with opposing political views. The flaws are certainly everywhere. Let me give you some examples. Last Saturday was the discovery of the Church of the Holy Protector of the Virgin Mary in Lviv. He organized the construction of this church in the commercial center of our faction, Peter Pisarczuk. In doing so, he welcomed Vladimir Litwin on behalf of the entire Supreme Council’s constituency. We are grateful to the factions of the factions and our Ukraine, and to the Block of Yulia Timoshenko, who came, supported, welcomed the citizens, that it is indeed a holiday. And at this time. And for example, it seemed to me that at last there might be some kind of warming in a relationship. But at 14 o'clock in the area near the monument, a folklore began again, dedicated to the 14th anniversary of the National Movement of Ukraine. For the citizens who support this movement, it's really a holiday. But the participants in this rally with indignation, for example, handed me a transcript of this festival, where the Communist Party, SDPU, was also watered with dirt, and what adjectives were used to do so, believe me, it was shameful to call it! For example, I had no idea that this is how political dividends can be made. And why didn't you gentlemen say that actually a Social Democrat created an enterprise for 10,000 new jobs? What exactly did the Social Democrats restore after the fire of John Frank's museums and take a stand for themselves? When a person has nothing to say about himself, it is only then that they water others with dirt. Is there nothing sacred in our country that could unite around this?Oh, my God! At school, I've always said one sentence to my children, and I never thought I'd talk about it from the Supreme Council's rostrum: "When one looks at a puddle at night, one sees dirty water, and the other sees mirrored stars to whom." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u154	Thank you. The word is given to Sergey Slatenko. Next up is Anatoly Frost.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u155	Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Soon the Supreme Council will begin its consideration of the 2004 budget. However, I would like to draw your attention to the 2003 budget and to mention the two sentences we heard in this room. The 2003 budget will be fundamentally different from the budget that was in previous years. Why? Because no one's gonna run the manual. Money will come in time, and all the programs that the government has instituted today must be executed. For example, that time frame while we were in our constituencies and when we analyzed the 2003 budget, we could come to other conclusions. For example, in constituency number 19, this Wallin region, there is a question related to the flooding of land in villages. For example, the village of Budachyov in the Venichov region. In this regard, Cabinet of Ministers decree No. 160 of 15,02 was adopted. In 2002, a program was approved to eliminate the effects of submerged areas in cities and villages in Ukraine. The source of funding, namely from the State budget, was identified in 2001, that 8.6 million dollars would be allocated for these purposes, and should be spent in 2003-2005. From the answer I received from the Department of Fuel and Energy, number 0119741, I learned that this money would not be available today. Why? Because now we need to clarify the cost statement that was developed in 2001. And then I understood the response of Mr. Pancheen's First Deputy, who says that the funds didn't come, and there's no way this program is going to be implemented on Volina again this year. I would draw your attention to other programs. We passed the Law on State Social Assistance to low - income families, which determined that they should pay the population at the proper time. I appealed to the Department of Social Protection in Volinsk Region and received the following reply, according to a letter from the Ministry of Finance dated 18.06. In 2003, the number 043-112/11 of the reporting month doesn't count as debt, which is roughly what it sounds like, if we have September today, everything that hasn't been paid in the previous month is not a problem, so we can wait. So for Volina this happened in Novovolinsky, this debt amounted to 120,000. The same problem today is financing the allocation of cars for people with disabilities. Of the 52 cars to arrive at Volin, only 16 arrived. I would like to pay attention to the head of Mr. French's government, who, personally, I demand, has given an answer to how many targeted programs are operating on Volina today and how much they are made with real money, and so ask this question to control First Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Azar.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u156	Please, Anatoly Frost, the next is John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u157	Anatoly Frost. 83 constituency, Communist Party of Ukraine faction, Zaporozhye district. Dear Hennady Andriyovich and distinguished colleagues. I am forced to speak out of this rostrum as I have been approached by the deputies of the village council of Jakimovka Zaporezki district, as well as by the deputies of the village council of Vesela Zaporezki district. We all know that we're on the eve of a difficult time, I mean, we're getting ready for the heating season, but as it goes, I think we need to look at it as quickly as possible in the Supreme Council, because the situation is too complicated. My point is that in the territory, like the Yakimiv district of the village council, there's a southern branch of the Imesh Academy of Agrarian Sciences in the southern branch of the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences, where there's a housing fund that houses 600 citizens of the village. If my fellow MPs remember here, I spoke from this rostrum last year, and there was a problem when people were forced to take the villa and other tools of work and go to bang the city’s Jakimovka village, and only after that performance did the government pay attention and in the fire order was somewhat done and the tension removed. Today, this situation remains. In 2003, the southern branch was in a difficult position to prepare for the heating season of 2003-2004 due to debts of past years, and the southern branch itself owed SPP "Ascom" for the gasification and equipment of a car of half a million dollars. Three governments have already promised to repay money for what they have done, and to this day these costs do not come back. And there were debts of almost 92,000. Taking into account this difficult situation, the village council has repeatedly begun to raise this issue on various branches of government, inviting directly those leaders who are subject to the Yakimiv Southern branch of IMESH. At their request to President WAN Zubc, they receive a fax from the director of IMESH Gukov, who shows that the solution to the housing issue has no prospect, so they have to go to me, the deputy, and the deputies of the Supreme Council to help resolve the issue jointly with the government in paying off the debts of the Southern branch of IMESH and to provide the population with warmth, all the other benefits of social infrastructure. The Yakimiv Village Council itself is unable to balance this housing fund because it does not have the funds to prepare these objects for transfer. And following the problem, it's a city-type village. Since 1997, this area has been gassed. Every year, we include in the budget a gasification facility a village of the city's Veselje type, and every year there's a million dollars allocated for gasification, but there's not a lot of money coming in. So I'm speaking on behalf of both the deputies and myself to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, and please, Hennady Andryovich, consider this a parliamentary request to solve this problem this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u158	Please, John the Rabbit. Next stepan cloud.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u159	John Hare, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Honorable National Deputies and Citizens of Ukraine! Just now, President Kuchma of Ukraine has signed an agreement on the creation of what is called the only economic space. Already today, your heads will fall from the media of the praiseworthy ranks of Kuchma’s support and this agreement. The information space will be filled with great lies, so I want you to know the whole truth about these agreements and about the actions of the President and the authorities in general on this harmful project for Ukraine. I want you to realize the depth and extent of the lies that were involved in the preparation of these covenants. To convince people of their support, a whole industry of misinformation was created about the essence of this agreement, this project. The highest officials of the state, including the President of Ukraine, constantly substitute ideas to hide their true intentions; they speak of mythical space, not specific articles of the covenant. They say something like that. The EP will contribute to the development of the Ukrainian economy, the emergence of new jobs, etc. And they say, "Do you want this?" You say, "Yes." Because who doesn't want to? Who doesn't want jobs? But it's like asking you if you want to breathe in a room full of breasts. Of course it is. But they do not tell you exactly what kind of air will be passed into your room — from the exhaust pipe of a murderer or from an age forest. Therefore, it is not generally necessary to judge the project, but rather, according to specific articles of the covenant, to understand what kind of pig the authority has brought to its people. We're told that these agreements will allow us to buy energy in Russia at lower prices than they are now. But that's not going to happen, because today the energy trade in private people's hands and they won't reduce their taxes because of their love, their mythical love for Ukraine. There has never been a time when prices went up on energy, especially during harvesting, and prices went down. So there's not going to be any reduction now. Cheap cheese can only be found in a mouse trap. The authorities tell you that signing these agreements will create jobs. It won't, because we have a substructured economy. But people from Asia will come to Ukraine with their diseases, their woes, and retirees from northern Russia will arrive. It will be. But they don't. The authorities say that these agreements are opening up the economic space that Donbas will suffer the most because the Cousbasian coal is cheaper than the Donbasian coal and will destroy our mines to the end. This Compradorian authority prefers to remain silent that these agreements provide for the so - called macroeconomic harmonization that is to end with the introduction of a common monetary unit. What this monetary unit is going to be called a euro or an epoch is not that important. The important thing is that the Russian undergarments will be attached, and the bracelet will cost 17 copies. Do you want to be at least 6 more times poor? Because you already have your own experience, hard experience, that the mafia is only enriched when it is poor. So can we believe this mob again? This line of conduct of the oligarchic authorities has been understood, but I do not understand the position of the leaders of the left hand forces. They don't realize that their support for this project, these agreements, is stealing from their people and saving this criminal government regime. I'm done. It's kind of like the word union in any context with these controls is what happens to mice. Who sees cheese in a mouse trap. But the mouse chooses fate only for itself, and the bear chooses leadership for all of Ukraine. So I urge you not to let yourself be deceived and opposed to the implementation of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u160	Ivan Aleksandrovitch, and if you're given 3 hours, can you say that for three hours? No, three hours can you talk without stopping? Please, Stepan Ilkovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u161	I can talk more if that's the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u162	Stepan Cloud, Yulia Block Timoshenko, Fatherland Party. Honorable National Deputies, the revered Blasphereous people of Ukraine. I've never been as worried as I am right now, going out to the first stand of Ukraine. Today’s beautiful sunny day can turn Ukraine into a black page of its history. I bring it to your attention that today the President of Ukraine, Leonid Kuchma, has committed an act of treason by signing Ukraine's entry into the so-called only economic space. Remember, as of today, the process of eliminating Ukrainian nationality has begun. I'm particularly concerned that I can't speak as one of the founders of this state, for which I've given up almost all my conscious life. Don't let anyone take it lightly. I'm not going to say anything. I'm going to go through the analysis of this new imperial creation, and it's something that's so obvious to everyone who wants to understand it. The president of Ukraine, he fears Putin, he fears criminal oligarchs, only until he fears the Ukrainian people, whom he has never served or wants to serve. But we need to make sure that he finally counts with the Ukrainian people. I call upon all public organizations, all honest Ukrainians, who think about the future of their nation, their people, to immediately launch mass actions of various kinds for the impeachment of President Kuchma, for removing him from power and for bringing him to criminal responsibility for treason! Because this is the immediate step of the elimination of the Ukrainian State, threatened by the great privatization of all of our strategic objects, the capture of the oil pipeline of the Odessa-Broda, and the release of it in Russia's interests in reverse, the capture of our gas transport system, and finally the opening of only one road for the Ukrainians, which has been trampled for centuries in Siberia, in the North, into slavery! Let's not let this happen! Get Kuchmu out of here!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u163	Bondarenko will perform instead of Zagreb. Next, Andrew School. No, no, no, school is next. Please, please, Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u164	Vladimir Bondarenko, Victor Yushchenka's block "Our Ukraine", the city of Kiev. I would like to read a parliamentary address in the name of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, which concerns the implementation of the EP in some part. The point is that in Kiev from 24 to 26 September 2003, there will be a regional forum for young people in the 21st century. Realisms and perspectives." He is headed by the Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco, and he is composed of a large group of government officials, national deputies and representatives of the public. According to the prepared documents, a letter was received from the State Committee on Family and Youth, in all the regional departments, stating that only two Russian and English are defined in the working languages, the basic languages. The forum is held in Ukraine, with 600 participants more than half -- Ukrainian participants -- it won't even sound like a Ukrainian word. It is surprising to see the position of total contempt for the national language of Ukraine as the high officials of our nation. Therefore, we ask the Prime Minister, as Head of Government, to take immediate action in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, which states in the tenth article that the national language in Ukraine is Ukrainian, and that the State should ensure the comprehensive development and functioning of Ukrainian language in all spheres of social life and throughout the territory. A large group of national deputies signed this statement. There is the appeal of a whole group of Kiyevrada deputies on this matter. I saved a minute and a half. I'm sorry, I'd like to say that when I read these documents that I'm giving to the Prime Minister for an introduction, I'm especially surprised that there are a few ministers here, and they're taking the normal form of communication in Ukraine's Russian language. Do you have any idea why Russian, why not Belarusian, not Serbian-Croatian, or any other Russian language? Today, the Constitution states that Russian is part of a group of minority languages in Ukraine, and we have our own Ukrainian language, in which we must probably hold such a high meeting in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u165	Please, Shershun. There's a minute. Are you giving Chershun a minute left or not? Oh, no? Please, Andrew School. Next Bogdan Kostenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u166	School, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I'll try in three minutes. The common thing that we can do here in Parliament right now is we can talk to the press about what happened in Yalta. Yalta today, Yalta-2 is the intersection of all of the weak achievements that have been achieved in Yalta-1. They were then fortified, let the Soviet Union, but partial return to Ukraine of its territory. Now in this Yalta, President Kuchma has completely betrayed Ukraine. His signature under a document that the Supreme Council will either initial or not, without any warning, clearly placed all responsibility before the Supreme Council. Kushma has already betrayed Ukraine. The next question is to the Supreme Council. And I want you, honourable radio listeners, distinguished Ukrainians who are listening to me now, so that you can understand that there is no point in an appeal to Kushma, and it's not worth it before. All appeals must now be to the Supreme Council. It has to put a dot in Ukrainian treachery: or cross it out, because the ratification question is either "yes" or "no". We no longer have any right to supplement or add or remove this document in these walls. And all those who were happy with the weak illusions that you could accept this document with some amendments, that you could initial with some kind of warning, and you know where they saw our warnings?Oh, my God! So once again, I would like to stress: all attention to the Supreme Council. The moment the ratification of this document is voted on, there should be more people under the walls of the Supreme Council than when they were standing under the walls, when the fate of independence was decided here, when there was a vote in favour of this issue in this sessionary room. Because now the threat is much more severe. There is infidelity, there is infidelity in power, there is infidelity in Ukraine. And unfortunately, in the government, in the existing regime, in Kuchma, there's extravagant mismanagement in Ukraine. That's not the way it's supposed to be. That's why I'm stressing that everyone who wants to contribute to the preservation of the Ukrainian state has to be on parifing time here, under the walls of the Supreme Council. It won't take long. In this situation, everything is printed at a fast, high - quality rate. We've decided to elect the President, he'll be elected here. It was decided to surrender, drown the Ukrainian state, and be trampled in the hall where it was declared. And I propose to those who vote for ratification, remove the flag and wipe their legs against it, those who vote for it. And put yourself on separate lists, because our authority will still be in this state and in this territory. And as one of our predecessors said, our power will be terrible. In relation to our enemies and traitors of all Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u167	Bogdan Kostinuk, next is Mikhailo Shershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u168	The Ukrainian People's Movement, "Our Ukraine", Bogdan Kostinyuk. The signing of the Single Economic Space Agreement is another anti-State adventure of today's regime, which aims to preserve its own impunity for long-standing anti-national politics, to preserve the economic importance of the oligarchik clans in the new neocolonial structure. [[EPU]] The willingness to yield to national interests and sovereignty demonstrates the absence of a clear state-owned strategy in Ukraine's highest management. In the event that this agreement becomes effective, the State sovereignty of Ukraine and its economic independence will be practically challenged. The agreement can become a real tool for subordination of the Ukrainian economy to the interests of Russia and will block Ukraine's further integration into the European and Euro-Atlantic structures. According to economic phraseology, the actual plans for the establishment of the Eurasian Customs Union are hidden, and I repeat the Eurasian Customs Union and the common economic market, which has been maintained by the previous Ukrainian governments. The agreement envisions the creation of four national economies, a unified economic system with the only super-government to be controlled by the Russian Federation, because it receives about 70 percent of the votes in this body, and the decision will become binding on the participating parties. Unification of economies will cause Ukraine to lose its national identity, halt the process of positive structural changes that are taking place or overcome distortions inherited from the Soviet farming model. The unification will also affect Ukraine’s external economic relations, the direction and nature of which will be produced, based on the interests of the Russian Federation, which will dominate the state center. Ukraine will lose its ability to protect, realize its national interests, as it will not affect joint decisions, as will other Russian participants, and Ukraine and Russia’s economic interests to a large extent are not objectively consistent, both at the bilateral level and in relation to other nations of the world. The subordination of our economy to the norms and rules of the EPP will not only stop Ukraine from moving to the WTO and to the European Union, but will destroy the small gains that our state has achieved. In particular, plans to become an association with the European Union will be lost, the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union from a relationship with the European Union will become an object of the European Union’s policy on this Eurasian creation. The agreement is openly contrary to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, our international commitment to European European integration. The authorities in Ukraine deliberately took the course of depriving Ukraine of its sovereign sovereignty and economic independence. The signing of an agreement on the creation of a single economic space is a betrayal of Ukraine's national interests, which will result in its responsibility to the Ukrainian people and to Ukrainian history. Once again, in a well-thought-out scenario, the government is distracting the public from major social problems in order to leave a criminal oligarchy regime at the helmsmen of the state. And for that, she's willing to do anything, even when it comes to the loss of national sovereignty. This time it is not even an artificial public discussion of the matter. I am sure that the Ukrainian people understand the true intentions of power, and they will have the courage to protect Ukraine from the wrong actions of power and to preserve the most holy - the independence of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u169	Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. Next, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u170	Mikola Shershun, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party. Dear Chairman! Deputies! I would like to express my concern about the problems that exist in the education sector. Problem one is economic and legal. Ukraine’s 21st - century national doctrine of education did not become law. So the important function of society, which is the basis of its modernization, has remained declarative. Educational laws and regulations are often in conflict with financial and economic laws. Consider the shameful practice of judicial cases throughout Ukraine in connection with the failure of article 57 of the Education Act, where the local education department is responsible. This is a lack of education law and laws on the State budget of Ukraine for the years 1997-2000. In 2000, the Supreme Council adopted a law on preschool education, recognizing it as a public function, and under the 2001 Budget Code, secondary education was referred to as its own self - control of local councils. Thus, the employment and development of children for most will not be available. Therefore, the budget code needs to be amended and settled. The second problem is socio-political or personnel. After a few years, no budget will help education, since schools will be left without teachers. The level of pay paid by the teacher is lower than the minimum of living and does not reflect the importance of the functions assigned to him. Over the past two years, more than 700 teachers have gone abroad to earn a living, and they are getting older. Men don't go to education. A poor person cannot bring up a successful, happy, and purposeful person. Education is losing balance and lack of incentives for self - improvement. That's why psychology dominates: both pay and work. In recent years, negative results have been added to the problems listed below: apathy, the bloom of shadow relations, tutoring, the purchase of grades, and so forth. The third problem is material and technical. Even though the Supreme Council increases the absolute number of education funding each year, it looks like this in percent. 75-80 percent salary, 10-15 percent utility, 5 percent other socially protected articles. There's 5 to 10 percent left for the development of the sector. It means computerizing, renovating physics, chemistry, biology, updating bookstores, repairing sports halls, and building repairs. That's why I'm calling on the High Council Departments and Committees, the Budget Committee, to look at the budget for the next year, to take into account the above-mentioned problems and, of course, to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u171	Vladimir Yavorowski, next to Taras Cranvil.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u172	Vladimir Yavorowski, Zovklam, Dublem, Rava Ruska, Yavorov, Novoyavorysk, Jani, Lvivščina Dear voters, not mine. I took these three minutes to try to help you at least a little bit to figure out what's going on in Ukraine today, in our country with you. I am convinced that the period of these last two years will enter the new Ukrainian history as a period of ruin, a period of humiliation, and Ukraine, and of the Ukrainian people. Why is this happening? Even so, in the event that John the Rabbit and Andrew School spoke so vividly about today, and that hurts everyone, it is indeed a betrayal of Ukraine’s interests. But I just want to remind you that in every state and political power to which the people trust, it comes to power and is responsible. I would like to tell you, dear Ukrainians, that in Ukraine today, one single party is a party of Social Democrats, one that has barely crossed the electoral threshold to the Supreme Council. And today she imposed on all society and government, and the President’s Administration, and on the Presentation herself, she imposed her semicriminal, brutal handwriting on false politics, false Ukrainian and false politics. It's obvious. Whole borders are admired, such as the western border. Today, people are introduced into virtually every structure, all the way to law enforcement. As a result, they will be responsible for all that is happening in Ukraine today. Here comes another event, honourable deputies and distinguished voters, which may be even worse than today’s signing of this year. You see, we've all been convinced that the President's proposals for political reform, that they've had a public discussion, and the people, 99.9 percent, have supported all of this! In addition to extremists such as the Yavorowski district, who made a completely different decision by the council. I mean, everything, people backed up, we believed, forgive for the irony. The president is taking and revoking this bill without asking the people. He asked him to submit this project or not? No, he's taking him. Instead, he gives one more. And now our esteemed colleague, the chief and teacher of most of today's Havrish is offering us, and I'm convinced that this might happen in this room, the tipping of my tongue, when this might happen in this room, when the deputies, in order to sit in these seats for another year, will buy a little bit more votes and vote to decide that the President will be elected in this room. If that happens, you can already guess who's going to be president. If he's not, at least his absolute doppelganger, which will keep our President safe. Because of you closest. I'm optimistic in nature, but as sad as I've ever had before. God forbid, I'm sure it'll pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u173	Taras Crnowil, next Vladimir Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u174	Dear fellow MPs, distinguished radio listeners, just before the previous speaker, Vladimir Yavorowski painted very nicely what the ruling party in Ukraine is doing today and what it is doing in general for Ukraine. I'd like to focus a little bit on one of her advance teams. In addition to the martyr's criminality that you were able to listen to today when discussing one of the preceding issues, they have another advance tax administration, led by Victor Medvedczuk's brother, the leader of this party, the head of the President's Administration, about whom Sergey Medvedczuk, could very well be said about him by the words of Lena Costenko: "The soul is deceitful and criminal, wrapped in a vest and helmet." But this helmet and this vest is "the silence of the lambs" and the fear and excessive caution of the powerful world of this one, who fear today even when it comes to their own survival and salvation, to confront the man who drowned in one region today, God forbid, will rise above, it is all in Ukraine, all rights and all freedoms. Today, it can be noted that the activities of the Lviv Tax Administration, led by Mr. Medvedczuk, are aimed not at the basic task of that structure, nor at normal fiscal policy, tax collection, control over their normal pay, but only at their own interests. It's also the creation of so-called tax-based charity funds to finance the party that manages this tax, it's also the persecution of personal opponents of enemies who in their dreams might think that they might someday sit in the place of Sergey Medvedczuk, it's also the terrorization of that business that's uncontrollable to the SDPU(o) or refuse to pay those bribes to the acting authorities in the form of so-called charity contributions to those funds. At some point, this has already caused great damage to the Ukrainian state in general. Let's think about at least an epoch with Credit Bank, after which the Ukrainian banking system is recognized worldwide as one that can't be made with investments. It's terrorizing the Lviv newspaper, other independent press bodies, uncontrollable, which are already being talked about around the world. At some point it went beyond certain limits, because Victor Medvedchuk's enemies, not only are not so many representatives of the opposition, but it is the other forces of the same parties that were born from the former "For the One Ukraine", especially in the Lviv region, that the faction in the District Council of "Deal of Lvivščina", that when the stick was overtaken, there was some internal rebellion, and the District Council by the forces of two factions -- "Our Ukraine" and "Deal of Lvivščina" made a decision on the mistrust of Sergei Medvedchuk. But the pressure began, all the actions of the government's machinery, the government was forced to force the ministers, the district council's subordinate deputies, to withdraw their votes. I want to address them on the eve of the next session of the District Council: People good, you can decide whether you vote in favour of calling back your votes and if you can continue to be terrorized, whether you will act in accordance with your conscience and the basic principles of self-preservation. Today we're talking about the only economic space. This only economic space in general in Ukraine and Medvedchuk with a company in Lviv is a chain of one goal: they destroy both statehood, they destroy both Lviv and human souls. Let's resist that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u175	Vladimir Cherniak. Next Orzhachowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u176	In a democratic environment, change of power takes place through elections. In Ukraine today, elections are not possible. And that's probably the biggest danger that exists right now. According to the election, the last elections in Ukraine are virtually impossible. In major districts, districts are bought, mayoral elections are falsified, party lists are falsified. And finally, we've now come to the point where practically the people are getting rid of the possibility of electing the President. They've already taken everything: they've taken the money, they've taken the property, and they're finally taking the power. And that's the scariest thing. And that means we're losing the ability to change the situation. A new bill is now being proposed. You know, well, there's a limit. You can fall very low, but you can't fall below the level of urban sewerage. How long will these draft laws go? At first, one was taken, one was elected by the President's Parliament, and now the bill was elected by Parliament in the following year by the President. And I'm amazed that the left parties are supporting this, which are pretending to be fighters for the rights of the people. I say what I have. And in fact, the people are being removed, the constitutional right of the people, which is written down, to elect the President, and we have a chance to change power by electing the President. What is the Supreme Council now? The Supreme Council is now a political and financial exchange where they choose to bribe, where they pay for their votes. There's a giant financial flow under this dome, and it stinks. We need to hit the windows and let the air in clean. And that's not going to be the election. Parliament is unable to choose the President that is needed. This should be the right of the people to do so. And if we don't change the situation, if we don't create a mechanism that will ensure the right to choose the people and the deputies of all levels, and the President, then the situation will continue to get worse, and the authorities will continue to break away from the people, and they will continue to do with the people what they are doing now. Here's the problem. And if we can do that, I would like us to realize that Parliament will not fulfill its historic mission. And that's going to be Ukraine's future legacy, that's going to be further democracy and further away from our prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u177	Is that what you could say for the Supreme Council as a whole? If you have, Volodymyr Kirilovich, if you have any comments to a particular MP, please tell me. But you can't walk like that on the Supreme Council. And if anyone goes to the Supreme Council for money, please tell me. How did you get to the Supreme Council? Did you give a lot of money? Did you give a lot of money? You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't do that. You can't get dirty. Please, Anatoly Orzhachowski, next to Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u178	Anatoly Orzhachowski, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues, voters, I want to draw your attention to the problem that concerns voters in many regions of Ukraine. Yes, Hersonian veterans, particularly the Holocaust region, are concerned about the situation in the state of return. They note that the once strong and brave tribe of Soviets did not stand before the enemy on their knees, won a great victory, and today the elderly, whom today’s economic hardships have forced them to go to the streets, do not know how to live and survive. The State’s governing bodies are forced to do so, and the situation that led them to learn about the government’s intentions to initiate the draft Law on Social Compensation to Ukrainian citizens who lost their money as a result of the liquidation of the USSR financial system, which compensation is involved? We made our contributions with honest work, and we put our money on a black day so as not to be a burden to our children and grandchildren. We demand that the State guarantee the full return of the lost deposits, not the so-called compensation. At the same time, we remember that the Soviet carbonite at the time was more valuable than the American dollar. What's the base of today's assessment of the invested carbon dioxide is 0.23 bracelets. Go to the market, see what you can buy for our national bracelet. Your bill is a direct robbery of the people, especially veterans of war and labor, because each of them ends the seventh, eighth or ninth decade of life. Who will let them off those twenty years for which you plan to extend the so-called compensation, perhaps there are those among you who believe that at this rate it can be calculated in 200 and 260 years, as our Committee on Veterans calculated and so forth on the repayment of the debt on deposits issued annually by 50 carbs. As seniors, we call on the Cabinet of Ministers and demand that our contributions be recalculated in terms of the actual purchasing power of the carburetor and the bracelets, without delay allowing investors to account for their investments in the purchase of equipment, medicines, children's education, utilities, annual payment of at least one thousand dollars of contribution. We hope for official insight and lack of acceptance, premature extinction due to shortages. Today, our voters are concerned about the problem of the processes that are taking place around the Saving Bank, and it is clear that there is an open-minded attempt to bankrupt a bank with which most rural populations, including war veterans and laborers, are linked. That's how Agrobank was eliminated. On the basis of what I have been taught, I ask the government for clarification on the issues raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u179	Please, Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u180	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Hennady Andriyovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! First. Tomorrow the ancient Chernigs will celebrate the 60th anniversary of the liberation of the city by German-Fashistic invaders. This was made possible by the courage and heroism of the soldiers of the Red Army, representatives of many nationalities of all the Allied republics of the Great Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics, who, under red flags, sought victory at the cost of their lives. This was made possible by the Communist Party, which brought together the Soviet people to fight a formidable enemy. From the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I warmly welcome veterans of war, former fighters of the Red Army, guerrillas and subversives, rear workers, present-day residents of Chernigov with this glorious holiday. I wish everyone good health, personal happiness, and a new victory in the struggle for Soviet power, a socialist way of developing society. The other one. Today, Yalta is hosting a summit of the Commonwealth of Independent States. Information was received on the signing of documents on the creation of a single economic space in Ukraine, Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan. Finally, the President of Ukraine, whom I do not have respect for and my fellow Communists, understood the need for such a step in the interests of the people of Ukraine, finally listened to the offer of the Communists. Ukraine's Communist Party has consistently fought to achieve its programmatic goal of creating a fraternal union of independent states based on the former Soviet Union republics. The creation of a single economic space will be the first step on this great path. Third. The first stage of the brotherly union of Ukraine, Belarus and Russia and the deputy interfractional association "Zubr" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is constantly being sought. An example of integration into the Union of Russia and Belarus is a convincing argument of the need. And no destruction of the state of Belarus or Russia, as some fear the Ukrainians, has occurred, both nations, especially their peoples, benefit greatly from the creation of the Allied State. To a large extent, this makes the economy of proud and independent Belarus work virtually to its full potential. On September 16th, the 23rd session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union of Belarus and Russia took place in the city of Mohilov. In her work as an observer, an official delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the MPs of the ZUB. As one of the participants, I will brief the national deputies and the people of Ukraine. The session considered a number of issues, including the preparation of the draft constitutional act of the Allied State, the implementation of the 2001 budget, the implementation of the budget this year, the preparation of the project for the following year, the problems of deepening allied construction, and so on. We envied our Slavic brothers that they were jointly implementing a series of science and technology and economic programs for the benefit of their peoples. And by their examples of effectiveness and brotherly union, they seemed to have invited Ukraine to join them more quickly. I am deeply convinced that the alliance between Ukraine, Belarus, and Russia must be in the near future. Let us all work together to do so, and the people will support us. If we have to, let's ask him in a referendum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u181	Vladimir Sergiyovich Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u182	The conversion of a war veteran. Petrenko, the Communist faction, the Matter. Referral of war and labour veterans and the Armed Forces of the Susten to the members of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! We are addressing you, the veterans of the heroic sumstina, the guerrilla cradle in Ukraine, who, in the years of the Great Homeland War, contributed greatly to the achievement of a historic victory in fascism, in a short time raised from the ruins of the city and the village, created a powerful economic potential. We are the winners of that terrible war that legends, poems, and songs have written about. In the wake of the 60th anniversary of the great victory in Ukraine's home country, it was a burdensome ballast. In fact, on the days of the Victory and other memorable days of the war of 1941-1945, the word of gratitude, respect and love is given to us enough, and indeed everything is done the other way around. War veterans and the Armed Forces were dismissed until 2000 on the verge of absolute poverty and, despite repeated treatment and Supreme Council regulation No. 288 of 29 December 2002 did not increase or index pensions. The average income of a war and labour veteran in Ukraine is based on international statistics at the level of absolute poverty. The labour savings earned by honest work, which have been delayed for decades by “black” money, are not planned by the Government. Which one of us will live. The President of the country issued a decree of 60 years of great victory. The paragraph reads: “Preparation and observance of anniversary events should be directed towards the consolidation of society, the strengthening of public care for war veterans”. And the Supreme Council decides, number 978, paragraph 5 proposes both benefits and grants to cancel and move to monetary address assistance. For us war veterans, the abolition of benefits will be a limit beyond which hopelessness, absolute poverty and mental emptiness. It will be the targeted robbery of the robbed and humiliated. We do not understand the consolidation of society under such conditions. We ask you, distinguished members of the people, not to allow this anti-constitutional act. Give us a chance to live peacefully and do not pursue morally economic goals for those who have given birth to you, protected and grown up. The address was adopted at the Suma city veterans’ meeting. Respectable comrades entering Ukraine into a single economic space is Ukraine's salvation from the economic crisis. You don't need emotions, you need numbers. In Soviet Ukraine, the budget was $60 billion a year. And today it's nine billion. There's unemployment, there's hunger, there's other trouble. That's why it's called Get Kuchma, not just Kuchma, but the bourgeois way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u183	Dear colleagues! Please, Phydenka. One minute, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u184	Stanislaw Phydenko, Ukraine’s Company. Dear head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished radio listeners! Tomorrow on Volin there is the takeoff of Soviet partisans, the stand of the legendary Medvedev, Kuznietsov. I warmly welcome from this rostrum these courageous men, true fighters for our Fatherland. But at the same time, I want to say that on the heads of war veterans, partisans, today, the government wants to put an incredible burden on Parliament -- take away the state's legal aids and replace them with so-called address aid. The government of Yanukovich is basing its intentions on the need to comply with President Kuchma's decrees, one of which is beautifully called "The Strategy for Overcoming Poverty." So in order to overcome poverty in Ukraine, and according to the President, it accounts for 80 percent of the population, the head of state and government has come up with nothing else to take away benefits from older veterans and disabled people and make them even poorer. The company of Ukraine and the faction of Communist deputies are doing their best not to eliminate the benefits. We did not vote in the summer for the Budget Resolution, nor will we support the budget of Ukraine for the following year if the benefits are removed. The benefits are not a gift — I want ladies, I want to take away, the benefits are paid to the people or as a humane act of aid to disabled people, many families, and so forth. At the same time, we often remind ourselves that socialism and the Soviet system are being eliminated in the first place. Let me remind you that in the 1990s, only $33.5 billion was paid from social spending funds. Carbovanians. The benefits were then inviolable, guaranteed, and made up more than three quarters of the State budget. Today, even in a pitiful way, they are taken away. On September 26th of this year, the Ukrainian Company urges everyone to go to the boardrooms and say our angry word, "Let's not." There is no other way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-19-m0.u185	Dear fellow national MPs, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared closed. The plenary session begins at 10 a.m. on September 30. Good luck.
