ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u1	Good morning, national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:11]] Reported -381 There were 381 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies Shepetin Vladimir Leonidovich, Sklar Vladimir Borisovich. Let's welcome them and wish. And on Sunday, our colleague of the national deputy had a wedding date. Let us sincerely welcome her and wish her inspiration, health, and success. From the procedure, please, Mikola Tomenko. Tomenka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, today is exactly three years old, as we have no known Ukrainian journalist, George Gongadze. Unfortunately, in these three years we have not heard the name of the conspirators and the murderers of Georgia. But I am convinced that we remember this story. And this story will be known not only to us but also to the world that controls and is interested in this murder. At the suggestion of journalistic organizations, I propose to honor the memory of Georgia Gongadze and all Ukrainian journalists who died in the fight for freedom of speech in Ukraine for a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u3	Please get up. Please sit down. Dear National Deputies! Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, it was decided that today the discussion of the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the preparation and possible geopolitical socio-economic consequences for Ukraine of the signing of the agreement between the Russian Federation, Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and Kazakhstan on the creation of a single economic space to be conducted in the regime of Government Day. The present Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, members of the government who have a direct bearing on this problem. Such an arrangement is proposed. In order to report, or more precisely to give information to the first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikola Janović Azarov, give up within 15 minutes, 10 minutes - answers to questions. A little? Give me 15 minutes. Is it gonna be okay? Ladies and gentlemen, if there are any questions, let's define, let's move on. No problem. Then ask how we agreed to make a brief statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Economic Affairs and European Integration, and the Ministry of Justice. Then, from the committees of two to seven minutes each, head of the Staszewski Committee Stanislav Telisforovich in foreign affairs and European integration issues Taraszuk Boris Ivanovich. Then perform from factions and groups to five minutes. Is there no objection? Please, cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! By me and the Ukrainian national deputy Klukkowski Jury Bogdanović, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the change of voting time to take decisions on the basis of the review of Kabmin's information and on the text. Registration number 4158. The decision is that after we have discussed the matter, we will listen to Kabmin’s information and make the appropriate decision regarding the information we are hearing. The reason is that the issue will be discussed tomorrow at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the scheduled signing of the agreement tomorrow. If we're just about to make a decision on Thursday on this point, I'm sorry for the rudeness, but it's practically going to turn into a "monster at lunch," which is that the Supreme Council is not going to be able to express its attitude towards this agreement. So as the subject of the legislative initiative, I still insist that this decree be voted today to allow the legislative body to express its position, the official position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there's no objection when we're finished with this question, the discussion, then we're going to be determined about the proposal of the National MP, the Zvaric. Indeed, such a decree is in line with number 4158. Then we shall vote. I think that in the process of discussion, we're just going to get to the point where we need to make the right decision. Anatoly Matvienko, please. Dear colleagues, we've moved on.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u6	Anatoly Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! As far as making decisions is concerned, I would like to deny that we are currently discussing the procedure, and I insist that we now make a decision on what we have to take on today's issue. The second question. I'm the author of the hearings of the project that I took off as a result of what we replaced with today's agenda and the author of one of the orders. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council meeting, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, I raised this question, as clear as possible, there was no objection that I would be given at least three minutes as the author of the draft decision as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, when we go to the draft rulings that are proposed, there are alternatives here, and the authors will have the right to speak. People’s MP Mironenko, please, the Communist faction, then Kirilenko Viacheslav, and we will work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! MP Mironenko, Communist faction. As the author of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of a single economic space, I would like to draw attention to the following: that the decree has been adopted, and that order must be implemented by the President, the Government of Ukraine and all of us. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at least 30 minutes should be increased to the appropriate time, because, in fact, those who oppose and even from the Government of Ukraine are included. And this can actually block a very important solution for Ukraine, for the people of Ukraine. We need to sign agreements, and we need to establish a beneficial economic link with Russia, Belarus, and we need to ensure the free passage of goods, labour, people, capital and so on. Without that, we will not ensure what is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u9	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, then Melniczuk, and that's it. All right, respectable colleagues, five minutes apart. In the presentation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine", Ukrainian People's Party. Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! I think that the issue is so important that the Supreme Council has to take care of the direct broadcast of today's Government Day on one of the national channels. I ask you to give such an assignment so that voters can watch live television for both MPs and government officials. And a second offer, from the procedure. It seems to me that 15 minutes for answers from First Deputy Prime Minister Azarov, who already has a stable position and has already initialed this deal on behalf of all of us, is clearly not enough. I offer 45 minutes and all the other ministers 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u11	Dear national deputies, with regard to broadcasting. I will ask Alexander Zinchenko to find out how far this problem can be solved. As far as regulation is concerned. We agreed: 15 minutes, 15 minutes for the interview, and we said 20, if there's more questions, we'll keep talking. And anything else -- then we have to put it to a vote, but I'm sure we won't get the result. Let us agree with this procedure. Mikhailo Melniczuk, please, the Socialist faction. School's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u12	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Reverend Victor Fedorovich. Please explain what's going on in the country. I had just arrived from Cherniewec region, and I traveled around almost six rural areas. There's no way to buy a fire extinguisher, reverend! We're talking about helping the village, tomorrow there'll be no one to help. It's not sown in the winter, ladies and gentlemen! If this is a hunt for the government of Yanukovich, Ukraine needs to know these hunters, where they are stationed, in which offices. Victor Fedorovich said the price would be, and it's all settled, December 1st, 70. Yesterday, I personally saw two bracelets bought in canisters from the Novoseltsky district in Kosticán. And there's no such thing! They said, "It was a fire-fighting command." Let's talk about this issue that's important to Ukraine. But the village is dying, dear, in the end! What is this doing?Oh, my God! And let's answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u13	Thank you. Once again, I ask Ivan Fedorovich Tomic to take into account Michael Melniczuk's comments and, when working on the draft decision on the results of Government Day, we will also anticipate the corresponding positions. Andrew Schlell, please, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u14	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And to the previous speaker, I want to remind you that Ukraine is dying, you know, because you don't know who's going to be harvesting this crop, which country, which economic structures are going to be harvesting crops that we can or will not be sowing. So I like the question that stands next. The Law on International Technical Assistance. What international technical assistance? We will be assisted by Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan, and these two international structures remain in cooperation with Ukraine. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I urge you, is the very important question at stake, to sign this EP, to go to that Azopa or not? So I would like all the national MPs to have the opportunity to speak. It's an extremely important question. Everyone else is going to the other side. So I'm proposing that not just the faction leaders, not only those who signed up there first, but simply that all those who want have the opportunity to express their views, to express their wishes, and to express their position on the betrayal of Ukrainian interests, at least in a momentary fashion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u15	Dear people's deputies, we've exchanged thoughts, now let me make it clear once again about the regulations so that we can make an agreement with you and then not go on forever. This rule is proposed, and it is proposed by two committees supported by the Conciliation Council. For the First Vice Prime Minister's briefing in 15 minutes, the answers to the questions are 20 minutes, if there are questions, in 30 minutes. Information from 3 ministries: foreign affairs, economics, European integration, justice, up to 5 minutes of information without answering questions. Reports from two committee heads. This is Staszewski Stanislav Telisforovich and Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich, up to 7 minutes. After that, statements by the heads of MPs and factions - within five minutes, after we've moved on to the drafting of the rulings, the authors of the rulings will have the right to speak. Is there no objection? What other suggestions? I'm voting on this motion, please vote. One minute, don't shout. You're enough, even more than you've taken the time you need. Please vote, please. [[10:15:35]] For 258. Decision taken. The first Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr Mikola Janović, has the floor for the report. Mikolo Janovich, please. I'd like your respectable colleagues to pay attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u16	Dear People's Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u17	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's essentially ask a question. I understand, but let's get to the point. Calm down, please. I beg of you, Your Honor, we are about to discuss this matter. We're not going to look at it at all, dear fellows. Dear National Deputies! Or let's see that we're going to deal with the issue essentially, or we're going to find out the political relationship right now. We need to consider the matter essentially. I'm asking you, let's take this thesis into account -- essentially. Please. Here comes the show. After it's over. Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u18	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Government of Ukraine, in its negotiations on the establishment of the Single Economic Area, has based itself on the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "on the formation of Ukraine's only economic space, Belarus's Republic, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Kazakhstan", which clearly states that "the formation of a single economic space should take place in forms and borders which should not conflict with Ukraine's course in Europe. Euro-Atlantic integration and to facilitate its fastest entry into the World Trade Organization." National pragmatism and belief in the insurmountability of national State sovereignty are needed in the evaluations of the Single Economic Area. We have taken a significant step towards making commitments to meet all three groups of Copenhagen criteria for Ukraine's membership in the European Union, political, economic and so-called.Comments, recognition of the implementation of the set of legal instruments developed during the European Union's lifetime. I see no contradiction between the implementation of the Single Economic Area project and its responsibility to ensure the optimum course of the Ukrainian State towards rapprochement and future membership in the European Union. Moreover, I have reason to believe that the Single Economic Area, acting on pragmatic principles: the protection of national interests, common efforts and means can accelerate Ukraine and other parties to the Copenhagen criteria for membership in the European Union. My arguments will not be a lengthy repetition of what has been said, I will only make a brief and concise reference to the most important distortions in the assessments of the documents we have signed. First. Ukraine and other project participants have been given a legal opportunity to rebuild and revitalize all industries and individual enterprises that have stopped or stagnated as a result of the gap between years of cooperative linkages. During this time, the construction, production of metal cutting machines fell 40 times from 37,000 to 900; tractors, 30 times, fell from 25,000 to 2,000; cement, 3 times; fabric, from a million meters square to 90,000. We've cut TV production 25 times. I could continue to call this characteristic of industry stagnation, stagnation because we had broken up economic ties for years. For the first time in at least one and a half decades, there has been a practical opportunity, I stress, only to move from conversation to action. By signing the EPP agreement, we hope that tariff and non-tariff restrictions will be lifted, and I stress, as a specialist I say, which is now being applied by both sides, bringing tangible losses to businesses and their workers. For example, the Russian Federation has partially or fully applied quotas and special protection duties to Ukrainian pipes, fittings, galvanized propellers, compressors for refrigeration equipment, bearings, caramels, and so on. Ukrainian producers suffer from this and, above all, these circumstances have a negative impact on the earnings of workers in the relevant industries. Given the market orientation of the concept and the agreement to create a single economic space, the most important competitive advantages of individual Ukrainian producers of goods and services should be adopted, which, without creating conditions for free trade within the free trade zone, makes these benefits ephemerally papery and unsuspecting new decent jobs for Ukrainian workers. The implementation of the free trade plan as a primary priority allows these results to be seen in the near future. This is all the more important that, at the current stage of our development and agreements with the European Union, there is no hope of a rapid recovery of European markets. Third. With regard to the planned harmonization of energy prices as well as the tariffs for transport within the participating countries, it is first of all easy to understand anyone who is aware of the importance of reducing production costs. Thus, the competitiveness of Ukrainian products in international markets has been improved again. Opponents of the project, who claim that Ukraine's accession to the EEP is allegedly undermining its State sovereignty through the consent of a super-governance body, would first ask that our neighbours be rejected as some well-known perpetrators of evil against Ukraine. Secondly, national nihilism, manifested in constant fear and consequently renounced stable relations with its immediate neighbours. Thirdly, from harmful national economies and social stagnation of illusions, to the possibility of hardly immediate accession to the European Union. We were based on the programme of integration of Ukraine into the European Union, approved by the President's decree of 14 September. (c) Annual report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNICEF) Sixth. The detailed development of Ukrainian regional integration scientists for the Government programme contains the following critical situation. The Ukrainian side, in assessing its compliance with the Copenhagen criteria, often substitutes concepts based on examples of formal compliance with certain domestic legal norms, ignoring existing practices. In order for this not to happen, practical experience is needed. Membership in the European single economic area certainly makes sense to consider the possibility of gaining experience. These opponents of the EPA, that Ukraine thus virtually renounces the European choice, do not tolerate any criticism at all. The situation is presented in this case with accuracy to the contrary. As far as I am concerned, the national interests of the State of Ukraine are central to the negotiation process. Just a few more words. The criteria for the creation of a single economic space are in line with the main Copenhagen criteria for membership in the EEA. I'll remind you what they are. This is primarily macroeconomic stability, structural reforms, trade liberalization, improved competition conditions, improved export structure and differentiation, and industrial policies aimed at reducing energy intensity. As an economist, I have good reason to argue that without the implementation of ongoing integration projects, we will not even be able to implement this part of the Copenhagen criteria in the distant future. The main instrument of the EP is to raise the standard of living of our population, and the main instrument of the EP is to provide additional jobs. A few more arguments. In Western Europe, there is no regulatory link between European integration exclusively with the European Union in its current submission. In the general provisions of the Treaty on European Union at the outset, article one states that this is the beginning of a new phase in the process of establishing an even closer union of the peoples of Europe. Next. Section five. The provisions on common foreign policy clearly refer to the fundamental objective of the European Union, such as the promotion of international cooperation. Other articles of the Single European Union treaty have been taken into account by the Ukrainian party, in particular that expressly affirm the right of any State which recognizes and respects the criteria for membership to apply for the application. Any State has the right from a single economic space. This means only one thing: if even hypothetically there is a threat of sovereign strategic decision-making, Ukraine has the legal possibility of abandoning membership in the EP by settling its previous obligations. A lot of words, hard to say, respectable. I returned in the middle of the night, attended a meeting at the Ministry of the WTO Conference, where the Ukrainian delegation consistently carried out its work and defended Ukraine's interests, not yours. [[Applause]] . has consistently pursued policies for Ukraine's accession to the World Organization of SOT. It is a lie that the agreement to create a single economic space prevents Ukraine from entering SOT. None of the negotiations even raised the question of a single economic space.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u19	May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u20	Moreover, to be serious, the framework agreement, which is the agreement, I stress - a framework that does not contain any figures without any specific obligation, none. . There is no threat of non-inclusion or membership of Ukraine, which is ever possible in the European Union. Now, if that people's MP who read the agreement carefully, he will see that each paragraph of the agreement requires the development of additional international treaties, which already specifically indicate a degree of Ukraine's participation in a particular project. [[That's why he's a framer.]] Moreover, no international treaty ever assumes that a country does not voluntarily transfer or restrict its sovereignty in any part. It's enough to look at any of the S.O.T. protocols where we'll see what commitments Ukraine is making. And these are real commitments, real commitments that will really affect our economy, our standard of living and so on. I am ready, Vladimir Mihajlovich, to answer all questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u21	Please, a question. Sign up, dear fellows. There are written questions. And we'll hold on. I ask you to calm down, approach the Committee on the Issues of Euro-Integration, and he will tell you. Either we listen or we work! Let's follow the procedure properly. Please have the name of the national MPs on the board. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the Ukrainian Agrarian Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u22	Dear Mikolo Janovich. We have examined this treaty in great detail today at the faction, and we want to believe that it will not harm our accession to the EU. But there is such a question. In article 2, paragraph 2, it says that we will not be able or we will not have the right unilaterally to conduct anti-dumping investigations to drug, to support the production of individual types of goods. I want to ask you if this is going to affect the fact that we can't support, let's say, our animal industry sector, so that it doesn't get treated like we're working against this agreement. [[dotify it]] This will not contribute to its development. So I want to ask you, is this going to be a separate agreement, or are we really not going to be able to do anything at the APC?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u23	I'm stressing again. The framework agreement, Catherine Timofeevna, and the main thing is that we have achieved in the process of very difficult negotiations, and I stress that the agreement has been a compromise, and so many critics, I respect the critical position, but I must understand that the agreement is a compromise. Somewhere we went to meet, somewhere we went to meet. That's where we're headed. Mainly, for the first time in all years of negotiations in Russia, we have managed to achieve language, just think about it, I will read it, because perhaps some have not read the agreement. The first phase of the establishment of a free trade zone without exemptions and restrictions, proposing the non-application of common trade in anti-dumping, countervailing and special safeguard measures based on a single policy on tariff and non-tariff regulation of single competition rules, to uniform competition rules. [[Ekaterina Timofeevna, note this phrase]] This is where the answer to your question comes from. No anti-dumpings. Vladimir Mikhailovich, if they scream like that, I'll leave the rostrum. I respect myself enough. ..to have the right to speak in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u24	Mikolo Janovich, one minute. Dear National Deputies! Or let us listen to each other, or let us stop considering the matter. Well, then in the performances you'll give your grade.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u25	In all these years, I have given no reason to contradict anyone here that I have changed the interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u26	Please calm down. Please, sit down. Well, please. I ask you to calm down, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u27	I am not afraid of you at all, because I have acted and will act for Ukraine, not for you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, please, let's demonstrate your level, your civilization, but I'm asking you, then you'll be performing, well, I'm asking you to give it normal. Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down. Calm down, please. Kosinov, non-fractional, please. Is there a national MP, Kosinov?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u29	I'll finish answering Katerina Timofevna's questions. Therefore, this is an essential provision, it is still a framework, it will need to be further specified, but it indicates that there will be uniform competition rules, subsidies and other forms of State support within a single economic space. Our village and our agro-industry complex are not far from Russian and Kazakh and we need about the same forms of support to compete in our common market. What is the EP? This is the common market of our States, and the common market I stress is what the European Union started with, especially the common market. So this is the most important situation that we have been able to stand, and I consider it a major step forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u30	National Deputy Kosinov, non-fractional, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u31	Dear Nikolai Janović, the debates that are taking place today in the Hall are probably related to both political and legal aspects of the problem. Why is it that today the Cabinet of Ministers does not produce a comparative table consisting of three columns: the SOT, the EU and the EP. So that we can see today where there are legal inconsistencies and most of them, I am sure that I would be able to take a personal look and make a decision. I ask that by Thursday such a comparative table, and there is a contradiction, since today there are statements of factions, there is a draft regulation made by members of the Committee on European Integration, where there is emphasis on the legal aspect. I would like you to prepare a comparative table that a specialist of the Cabinet of Ministers could have done a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u32	The distinguished people's representative of Kosinov, once again, I stress that there is nothing to compare, because if the protocols of accession to the WTO, and I show only a small part of these protocols, contain detailed development of our positions in the negotiations, for example, we have to bring in our export duties for a period of four years and specify the specific parameters of these duties, not in the negotiations with the EU, not in the negotiations with the EP, not even in close consultation with the EP. [[2002 is up, 2003 is up, i.e. 2 years remain]] And there's someone who says that there's some kind of customs union, a common currency, and other than that, it's an attempt to disrupt the process or something. I'm not gonna talk right now. But they have nothing to do with real arrangements. Second. The second most important. Information is now being heard and the document is essentially not signed. It will be ratified, as will any international treaty, for ratification to Parliament. Parliament's right to assess this document is then to accept it or not to accept it. At this stage, we are merely informing that this framework agreement is based on it. Therefore, it is not possible for such tables to be presented by the distinguished people's representative of Kosinov for the simple reason that they are incomparable in nature.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u33	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u34	Please give the floor to Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u35	Alla Alexandrovska, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u36	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Nikolai Janović, you're doing the right thing by evaluating the supposed document, which I think the Supreme Council will ratify in a mandatory manner. I'm sure that's because we can see that there's an agricultural plant, there's an alternative factory. Harkov factories can produce and produce good quality televisions today, but in Europe they are uncompetitive, and Russians are asking for it. I think the Harkovcans who are listening to your report today and listening to what is happening in the Supreme Council are well aware that in one economic space their jobs, their well-being, and I am sure they support the Government's intention to conclude such an agreement. Thank you for your work.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u37	Vasil Gavriluk, People's Landing Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u38	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Nikolai Janović, today goods such as pipes, sugar, confectionery, a number of other items have been removed under the free trade agreement with Russia. Please tell me, first question, how will it be when entering a single economic space? Second question. Whether the Russian Federation now includes free trade for the EP. Energy carriers are gas, oil and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u39	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I've already said that the most important achievement, I think, is what we agreed, and I'll read again: in the first stage, and I said, ladies, if we don't create a whole free trade area without removing the restrictions, and we've written it down and so on, we're not going anywhere else. [[And I spoke directly to the meeting, and witnesses to the mass.]] This was one of the main contradictions in our negotiations. Because Russia understands very well what that really means. This really means a single price for energy. And I knew how hard it was for Russia to go into that language. While this, once again, is a framework agreement, and from it is a long and distant road to a real free trade zone treaty, which will also have to be ratified by both our Parliament and the three participating countries. But, I stress, there will be no exceptions in the free trade area, we have agreed, there will be no exceptions. And that position was confirmed by President Putin. Energy prices will be uniform. It's a huge win for our economy. A colossal win. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u40	I'm asking you to calm down. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Ivan Alexandrovich, could I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u41	Now I'm not speaking in my speech, I'm going to say it now. I don't understand the meaning at all. He's gone. Many approaches in assessing this agreement. The Kiev formula, which we have been working on for a very long time, speaks of the basic principle of creating a single economic space: it is a principle of diverse and diverse integration. Next. We have clearly stated in the agreement that each party has decided on its own the extent and speed of progress towards integration. What makes us doubtful? At any stage, we can stop moving forward at any stage. At any stage. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u42	May I have your attention, fellow officers? May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u43	Now. We have clearly stated that all our subsequent agreements will be based on generally recognized principles, international law and the rules and principles of the World Trade Organization. We have recorded that a single economic space is being developed gradually, by increasing the level of integration, further by text, taking into account generally recognized norms, the principles of international law, as well as the experience and legislation of the European Union. Listen and think about these phrases, respected criticisms!
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u44	May I have your attention, please? May I have your attention, fellow officers? Please, let me answer your questions. Well, please. Dear colleagues! May I have your attention, fellow officers? Well, time's coming. We're just having a good time. I beg of you, fellows of honor! All right, everybody, let's go! Mikola Janović, have you finished answering the question? Yeah? Did you finish your answer? Next? Sergey Ratushnyak, Deputy Group of Democratic Initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u45	Dear Nikolai Janovich! The question is that a project is being prepared in closed mode by some lawyers and a statement is already being prepared and no one has seen the package. This reminds me of the condemnation of Solžhenitsin's work without seeing any work. I wanted him to. Why don't we move on to specific labour resources, energy resources and so on, treaty, why do we want to hug Russia again? We've been with them for 500 years, and, in principle, we haven't waited. Who today is preventing Russia from buying our goods? That's a question. Next, tomorrow. In this contract, free transit of Russian energy resources, destruction of metal products and chemical products is achieved because the Russian manufacturer works for $30 per thousand cubic metres of gas and ours works for $100. What competitiveness? They'll destroy us. I don't know where the benefits are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u46	Once again, the contract is a framework. More than 50 specific agreements on certain issues should be annexed to these treaties. We have not even been able to approach the so-called set of measures to be developed by our Government to implement this project. Once again, you're all given an agreement, read it, read the concept, think about every phrase. Thus, with regard to rail tariffs and generally tariff policies in transport, I reiterate that the establishment of a free trade zone without exemptions and restrictions will be based on a single policy on tariff and non-tariff regulation of single competition rules. This will mean that, of course, we will defend our interests to ensure such transport tariffs so that our goods are competitive in the Russian Federation. This is the basic principle that has been laid down in the creation of the free trade area. Once again, this will require very detailed elaboration in the adoption of specific treaties, the so-called package of measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u47	Vladimir Levcun, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u48	Please pass the word to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u49	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u50	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say here that Mikola Azarov here, speaking from the rostrum, is already speaking in the national language, you don't argue with him. Because he speaks in the language of the State in which he wants us to live, and he wants us to live in it. That's the first one. The other one. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to you. You're saying there's no culture in this room. Where we're going, that's the culture. We're going to Azop -- that's what culture is going to be in this session room. And I'm asking you, Mikola Janovich, no ritual spells about what is "good" and quoting this agreement. Unlike you, we know another foreign language, such as Russian, and we can read everything it says. You don't need these quotes here. With regard to WTO and EPU. It's, I'll tell you, the same thing that women and lovers want to explain how much we love each other, to tell women how much I love a lover, to love -- how I love a woman. It's the same thing to go to Europe and say that we love European economic cooperation by joining another. And the second. I'd like you to quote and show a page that says that energy prices are going to be the only ones. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u51	During negotiations with the Russian, Belarusian and Kazakh sides, there was never a question raised that would undermine Ukraine's economic interests. Unlike those negotiations that I have just held, that have been strictly demanding by Ukraine and that we will seek adequate answers, for example, to completely abolish export duties for scrap metal exports to other countries. I'm telling my interlocutor, I'm saying, "What is 500,000 scraps to get out of Ukraine right now is to stop one of the metal mills." [[I will not disclose my name and post for diplomatic reasons]] Yes or no? That's where Gurov's metalworks sit. So, Vadim? Yes. These are the requirements for us, my friends, that's not what you're talking about, as long as it's common. Or, for example, allow the importation of chicken meat without restrictions and so on. Where we defend national sovereignty, here we are in the negotiations. I could tell you a lot more, but we have come from the national interests of Ukraine, first and foremost. And the fact that you're so afraid now means that I believe more of you in Ukraine's State sovereignty than you believe in it. You doubt him, and I don't doubt him.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u52	Anatoly Grzezhev, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u53	They will pass on the word to the Winn.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u54	Joseph of Viennese.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u55	Viennese. factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Mikola Janović, I would like to get a clear answer out of your mouth that the price of gas and oil after signing this agreement in Russia and Ukraine will be the same. That's the first one. And the second. Whatever the emotional statements we're listening to here, it's true the figure, we don't have real numbers today, that Ukraine will get out of this, and that Ukraine will lose. And you want it or you don't want it, in order for the vote in the Supreme Council, for the position in the Supreme Council of Deputies to be adequate, we have to get broad calculations. There are no such calculations for today. They need to be, and then it will be easier for you to have a conversation, and it will be easier for us to make decisions. I would ask you clearly to answer these two questions: Will there be calculations, and what will be the price of oil? No emotion.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u56	Dear Joseph Vicentievich! I stand on this rostrum, responsiblely stating that if there is no single price of energy, there will be no single economic space. It's understandable and clear to any economist, anyone. Now the second one. We are told that something is impeding our European integration. I ask myself a simple and understandable question: Why are we so supportive of a single economic space with Portugal, with which we have a small turnover and do not break our heads, how can we eliminate the negative balance of payments in Russia and with these four countries?" We have minus 2.7 billion dollars of negative balance of payments on foreign trade. Here, Joseph Vikintiev, our reckoning. With Russia, we only have a negative $1.9 billion in our foreign trade balance in six months this year. Is it not a price to pay for the establishment of such a mechanism? We have therefore entered into these negotiations on the basis of an understanding of the benefits for Ukraine, the participation in the common market of these four countries, first of all the exit. Of course, none of our negotiators will accept unilateral concessions, it is quite obvious. There must be mutual commentators, there must be mutual measures. All of this, if we really want prosperity and economic development, we will have to develop in the next stages. Because once again, this agreement only opens the way. What's his point? The four sides of the village asked themselves: What is preventing the development of our economy? We are now in a stage of economic growth, and I would say, filling already existing production capacities. Where are we going to get an additional 7-8 percent of GDP, which markets are we going to go to? That's what we've been thinking about -- how to get our products out of the country's economic development, because the hope for external investment -- in 12 years, we've got the shorts -- illusions. The development of external markets should therefore be as much as possible. This is Joseph the Vicentis from where we came from.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u57	Yes, thank you, Mikola Janovich. Time's up, please sit down. [[B in m in s a l in]] I invite you to report to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Grishchenk Kostin Ivanovich. As we agreed, five minutes, Constantine Ivanovich. Prepare Minister of Economics and European Integration Valery Ivanovich Horoshkovsky. [[The voice from the hall. DO NOT HEAR]] From the point of view of the government? That's how government officials do it. Dear colleagues! Let us welcome the new foreign minister and wish him success and listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u58	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear Victor Fedorovich! Deputies! Thanks for the applause, that's my first. My first speech on the Supreme Council. And as a person who speaks for the first time. As a first-time speaker, I'll be quite squeamish in my speech. Since Mikola Janović has detailed his view of the issue and, above all, his economic side, I am focusing on the political and legal aspect. What's more, he's causing the biggest discussion himself. As we consider the draft agreement on the formation of the EP, we face a difficult choice. This is a question involving many factors, both external and internal. From a formal legal point of view, this is a document that can be improved. Many shortcomings have already been reported, including by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's why I won't stop. From a meaningful point of view, we have a document that contains a very attractive moment for Ukraine: a free trade zone. The removal of barriers to trade with the countries of the former Soviet Union has long been in demand since the first post - Soviet years, when our businesses have long stopped as a result of damaged economic ties. Ivan., please, I literally have it. I made a special page and a half. I think maybe one and a half can be heard.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u59	You get used to it and talk, get used to it. It's a working atmosphere. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u60	Thank you. I'm taking into account the performance. From a political point of view, the document raises questions both in our society and in our Western partners. It is important for us to maintain a balance of interests in Ukraine on the line that separates the restoration of damaged economic ties from the restoration of a destroyed allied state. I'm convinced that all the steps we have to take to implement this agreement are to be tested for European integration. The Free Trade Zone is the economic risk we're at. Our follow-up action, I'm sure, will depend on how much we can implement this project and how much our partners will be able to meet our interests in areas where this readiness has not been observed before, despite all the efforts of Ukraine. Under any circumstances, all of our further steps must be carried out by Ukraine in accordance with the strategic course for European integration set by the President and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We came to an agreement as a result of a complex, long-standing process that has already been described and reported by the First Vice-Prime Minister today. The signing of an agreement with warnings that are essential to upholding the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine will provide us with the necessary legal protection and at the same time create real opportunities for the formation of a free trade zone. I think the situation around a single economic space has clarified one thing. The European idea became a reality of Ukrainian political life. It is a conscious character for millions of Ukrainians, from ministers to students. And I am convinced that this new European consciousness is a guarantee that the EP will not become a sleaghbaum for the European Ukraine. After all, it is really up to us to have a future. And no treaty can limit the right to choose the Ukrainian people consciously! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u61	Please have a seat. Constantine Ivanovich, please sit down. No questions asked, not foreseen. Minister of Economics and Euro-Integration Horoshkowski Valeriy Ivanovich
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u62	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! Because the Rules are small enough, I will try to briefly discuss those issues that may be of concern to the Hall. And they're in the next one. In general, let's move away from maybe further politicization of this issue and try to talk professionally. If you speak professionally, you know, the question is, are you in charge of the EP or not? And I hear from different sides of the hall different attitudes. Let's just think about this abbreviation, figure out what's behind it. And that is when each one of us can say: What is his personal purpose? We're talking about economic integration. Who's against it? All of you! In addition, we believe that Russia is really a very important partner, and in this regard we need to make every effort to make the most of our economic ties with the Russian Federation. But Ukraine's economic integration has to come out of four principles, and I just want to announce them if there's any objection. Economic integration must take place according to the rules of international trade defined by the WTO. Economic integration cannot threaten Ukraine’s national sovereignty. Economic integration cannot violate the current legislation of Ukraine, nor can economic integration run counter to the President's stated course on European integration. [[Applause]] And these are the main conditions from which the Ministry of Economics and Government, by the way, comes out in its own vision. You know that the government has twice considered this situation and has some warnings. In this regard, we are talking only about the professional level of communication, nothing more. Let's move on. The main question that I have just heard during the speech by Mikola Janović Azarov: energy prices. Dear colleagues, what prevented us from creating a free trade zone for nine years? [[Applause]] There are some questions. The second question. We think we have prices for Russian energy. We think so. For example. It's there. Let's move on. Do you know that the main condition for holding Russia's movement to WTO is energy prices? It's real. And this is a negotiation process that prevents Russia from joining the World Trade Organization because, above all, the World Trade Organization comes out of a level playing field. The second question. Is it convenient for Ukraine to have cheap energy today? At first glance, yes, of course, but this is a crime in front of future generations, colleagues. And what I want to say is that if we are really defending Ukraine's economic position, we have to support everything that will benefit from this agreement, and that's absolutely fair. But who and how does perceive our movement to the EP. If we listen to Russian politicians, including the highest level, they consider customs union to be the minimum level of integration. We consider the maximum level of integration of the free trade zone. [[Applause]] And I want to point out that the principle of our policy should be the reality of our goals and the fulfilment of our commitments. The signing of the documents on the EP in today’s edition will have some consequences and some problems, so the government gives a warning. And I would like the Hall to consider these warnings and support us in this matter. I want to, I note that the government held two meetings and made a warning, gave the three ministries the right to prepare a remark from this point of view. We have carried out the government's protocol assignment. And please, no questions, let's give it away. And the last thing I wanted to say was, Russia is our political and economic problem, we have no problems with the Russian Federation today. By signing this agreement and not doing it later, and that sounds like an argument, we're going to create problems with the Russian Federation. Why are we doing this? That's why I have a very simple proposal: an agreement on the EP should be signed within those limits and those frameworks that do not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, the current legislation, the international agreements, and in this regard we will move towards such integration of the economic character. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u63	Have a seat, please. The word is given to the first Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Suprun Vasil Fedorovich. Please. Calm down, please. Minister of Deployment. We're listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u64	The minister is on a foreign mission, distinguished national deputies. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies present. The Ministry of Justice has carried out a legal analysis of the drafts of the agreement and the concept of creating a single economic space. According to the Ministry of Justice, the drafts of the above documents in the vast majority of regulations correspond to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. At the same time, individual positions of the future agreement and concepts need, according to the Ministry of Justice, clarification with a view to bringing the said documents into line with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. First of all, when it comes to some difficult questions, it is very brief. This refers primarily to the status of the sole regulator, which is provided for by the draft agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me, this is the first time I've spoken in this important hall. It's kind of hard for me to speak. In view of the fact that the draft treaty provides that the parties “establish a single regulatory body to which they delegate part of their powers on the basis of international treaties, and the decision of that body is binding on all States parties”, it should therefore be noted that the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the possibility of delegation of powers to any other institutions. In this connection, according to the Ministry of Justice, the status of the governing body requires clarification in the signing of the agreement, in terms of the fact that the draft treaty on the status against which no one objects as a possible institution should have this status in relation to the provisions of the Constitution in the sense that it corresponds to the position on the non-constitutional status of the Constitution, the possibility of delegation of any authority to the level of other bodies than the definition of the Constitution of Ukraine. The second question concerns a possible ban on warnings contained in future covenants. Well, in our opinion, this situation also needs some clarification, as it comes from the fact that the Vienna Convention on the Law of International Treaties does not exclude the possibility of warnings about certain treaties. The Vienna Convention allows that a specific treaty may contain a ban on warnings, but this does not extend to future contracts that the parties are not yet aware of. This is the clarification that can be made according to the covenant. And yet another issue that we think deserves our attention, based on Ukraine's European integration course, is to strengthen the position of the treaty, where it is about the need to respect the principle of international law, with a reference to the need to reconcile the position with the legislation of the EU. These are actually 3 positions that the Ministry of Justice believes are subject to clarification and may be subject to some warnings when signing this agreement. I would also like to point out that a treaty can be signed without reservation, but then the Supreme Council's consent to this agreement must take into account the position of article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine, where the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is required to reach an appropriate conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u65	Have a seat, please. The chairman of the European Integration Committee, Taraszuk Boris Ivanovich, will report, please. We voted on the order of conduct, no questions of procedure, 258 votes. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! First of all, I would like to pay attention to the use of the national language by all government officials. Mikolo Janovich, I think you're a wise man, educated and able to speak Ukrainian. [[Applause]] The same applies to the Russian - language draft of the Supreme Council transmitted by the government. A draft agreement was discussed at the European Integration Committee on September 9. The present committee members unanimously stated that the document was contrary to articles 5, 19, 75 and 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution. With regard to the fact that the only source of power in Ukraine is the Ukrainian people, the need to comply with all the civil servants of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the impossibility of transferring powers to the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. The members of the committee pointed out that the agreement was contrary to the provisions of at least two positions, the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, Articles 4 and 51 on the establishment of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the European Union and on the adaptation or harmonization of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. In addition, we have come to the conclusion that this agreement, when signed and entered into force, contravenes the law on the concept of a state-wide programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the legislation of the European Union, which we have approved with you. Not to mention that this agreement contradicts the numerous presidential decrees on European and Euro-Atlantic integration. The signing of this covenant will damage the process of our nation’s accession to the world trade organization. I would like to remind you that almost a year ago, on 28 November last year, we supported a course for European integration, the ultimate goal of which is Ukraine's full membership in the European Union, by voting by a constitutional majority of 328 votes in favour. I would also like to remind you that on May 22, this year, the Supreme Council accepted a statement on the Single Economic Space. By the way, none of the representatives of the faction "Our Ukraine" supported this statement. But I'm talking to the majority. The statement states that participation in the Single Economic Space should not conflict with the European course for European European integration. Many things need to be said about other negatives when this agreement is signed. First of all, signing and entering into a treaty is contrary to the national interests of Ukraine, its international obligations, the image of our nation and the failure of Ukraine to take a European integration course. We are assured that the agreement concerns the creation of a free trade zone, in fact the treaty has all the characteristics of a customs union and a common market. It is known that individual members of such alliances cannot participate in other integration processes. Next. Members of the Single Economic Area, in accordance with the provisions of the above - mentioned article 2 of the Treaty, are under an obligation to adapt their own legislation in order to harmonize it with other members of the EP. It is evident that the harmonization of the laws of two different ones according to its direction is impossible. Next. The EC Treaty provides for the creation of a single regulatory body and the transfer of powers to it with the gradual extension of such powers. The decisions of this body must be binding. I want to say that previous expert calculations show that Russia will have about 70 percent of the votes in this body, other experts say that this will be more than 80 percent of the votes. Thus, decisions will be made only by Russia. As to the answers that we have heard from government members today. Unfortunately, I did not hear many of the answers to the questions raised in the letter from the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council to the government. There is no economic and financial basis for this agreement. We did not hear the answers to the questions. In view of all of this, the Committee on European Integration has adopted a decision to ask the President not to sign this agreement. In this regard, the committee introduced a draft decision that is appropriate for your consideration. And we hope that the Supreme Council will support this decision, number 4152-2. I would like to address the respected members of the government. Your predecessors refrained from involving Ukraine in similar political and geopolitical projects, such as the SND Economic Union, the SND Customs Union, and the EuroAzS. Make no mistake. My contacts with the European Parliament, as well as my recent visit to the Commissioner of the European Commission, Mr. Verheugen, prove that if an agreement on the creation of the European Union has the characteristics of a customs union, it will create serious problems in relations with the European Union and on the path to integration, the world integration of trade. I would like to address you, distinguished national deputies and members of the government. I warn and warn you, if you approve and sign this agreement, you will take responsibility for the Ukrainian people, for the Ukrainian history. In his statement of September 9, the National Movement of Ukraine noted that signing such a treaty would be a betrayal of national interests. And we will require the initiation of an impeachment procedure for the President and the resignation of those members of the government who support its signing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u67	The committee's head in foreign affairs, Stanislav Telisforovich, will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u68	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Members of the Government, Honorable Fellows! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, by order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at its meeting on 10 September this year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs considered draft Supreme Council Regulations Nos. 4068, 4106, submitted by the People's Deputies of Rudzikowski and Matvienka, concerning the holding of the Government of Ukraine and parliamentary hearings on the possibility of signing an agreement between Russia, Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and Kazakhstan on the creation of a single economic space. In this context, the Minister of Economics and European Integration, Valery Horoshkovsky, and Alexander Chalogo, the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, were informed. The committee agreed to listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers discussing what we are doing today. I'll give you the thoughts that sounded at the committee meeting. The idea of economic integration in SND space, including the creation of a single economic space, is not new. A colleague of Tarasyuk said that. During the period of independence, we have seen several attempts to create effective economic integration mechanisms. You all know exactly how SND works. More than 600 documents have been signed in partnership, including the 1993 Economic Union Agreement. Implementation status is known. Now we're just trying to complete the first stage -- the free trade zone. Another attempt was to create the EuroAzS when five countries set up a customs union. In just four years, only ten customs tariffs have been agreed on, and this process is becoming more and more bogged down, and anti-dumping procedures and removals continue to be applied. The urgent task of economic integration in SND areas, as Ukraine put it, is very simple. Creating an effective trading zone. In other words, the preservation of traditional economic ties based on new framework conditions. And our State's participation in the negotiations to create a new integration within the single economic space is our next attempt to find a mechanism to apply the principles of free trade. However, the conditions of participation in the single economic space must be in line with two key principles: their compliance with national legislation, primarily the Constitution of Ukraine and the national interests of Ukraine. As far as the Constitution is concerned, the discussion of the last days is well - known to you. I will not repeat the argument, but I will note that article five of the Constitution establishes an exclusive list of bodies through which the people of Ukraine exercise their sovereignty. And these are the organs of government and local self - government. Accordingly, any opportunity to convey to the people of Ukraine their sovereign rights to national authorities is totally excluded if we do not change the provisions of the Constitution. Sometimes they ask: What will Ukraine do when it joins the EU? Is that where authority is to be given? The answer we all know is that almost every Sunday there are referendums in the candidate countries about the accession to the European Union. The people of each country decide whether or not they accept all the conditions associated with EU membership. Obviously, if we decide to transfer some of our sovereign powers to national authorities, as proposed in the draft agreement on the formation of the EES, it should be approved in a referendum. I'm going to touch on a few political aspects. In Ukraine, the strategic course of Ukraine for European integration is declared, and it is fully supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to remain a reliable and predictable partner, we don't have to let any signal of possible departure from this course. In Ukraine's EU integration programme and the President of Ukraine's messages to the Supreme Council "European Choice" creating a zone of free trade and customs union with the EU are clearly defined as key tasks for the implementation of the European integration course. Dear colleagues, here in the hall, many well-known economists. I'm sure they're better able to analyze the economic aspects of the EP. So I'm just going to do a couple of pens. Countries united in the Free Trade Zone are pursuing an independent and sovereign foreign trade policy in relation to third countries. The decision to create a customs union requires the full harmonization of tariffs, i.e. the introduction of WTO under the same conditions. This means the need for a review of the agreements already reached for Ukraine and, as a result, the destruction of many of them, the irreparable loss of image, as predicted by partners. Question: When are we going to join the WTO? And one more thing: The Supreme Council is now in charge of setting customs tariffs. Another is the situation in Russia, where such powers are vested in the government. Is there any point in withdrawing from existing order in Ukraine today? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that on May 22nd of this year, a statement was adopted in the Supreme Council, which found support for the statements made by the presidents of the four states. At the same time, it has been pointed out that our participation in the EP should not conflict with the implementation of the strategic course for European integration. And here, in the Supreme Council, we're going to ratify these agreements. Then we must now ensure that this document is in line with national legislation and the interests of the state. What does this mean in practical terms? The answer is quite simple: our participation in the EP should be limited to creating and functioning an effective area of free trade without exclusions and restrictions, i.e. a zone that would ensure the maximum degree of economic integration with elements of four freedoms: free movement of goods, capitals, services and persons -- and at the same time does not conflict with the Constitution, the current legislation of Ukraine, its strategic course for European and Euro-Atlantic integration and entry into WTO under conditions that meet our national interests. In this situation, we can either postpone signing for the purpose of redrafting the draft agreement, or sign a declaration with warnings in which we can clearly record the position of Ukraine. The wording may vary, let lawyers work on it, but such a position should be clearly fixed. That statement would put all the dots above the "and" and take away all the concerns about the sequence of our course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the discussion. From the European Choice Group, Pehota Vladimir Yuliyovich. We approved the procedure, 258 votes. Please. [[You Can Express Your Speech]] Please, Vladimir Juliusovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u70	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Sadly, while some were no longer in Parliament, they learned to speak but did not learn to listen to others. And I think that history still tells us that we haven't learned to listen to common sense. We think what we're saying today is historical, and this today should be what I say. So let's look at our history, citizens of politics, the people are already tired of our speech room, the people are tired of us being able to reach the volume of production that was in the 1990s -- 60 percent. So as I look at this slogan that my colleagues wrote, I fully support that we should go to Europe and the European Union is a perspective for us. But at the same time, we should not give up those economic relationships with our neighbors. Some here fear that we will be deceived by the Slavic brothers. Europe is drawing us a prospect in 10 years, and let's remember, we've shut down Chernobyl, and who has fooled us? We've destroyed strategic weapons, and where are the promises we've been given that will compensate us and build us a home for the military and give people a job? We closed the deal to some politicians who said we had to turn around so we could get better, and we didn't get any better. So let's turn around again, I say, to history and listen to each other, and if we don't learn to listen, we'll never have anything good. Maybe we've made a lot of mistakes, maybe what we're looking at today isn't the only way out of this situation. But I have to say that we're talking about the negotiation process right now. And here I'd like to point out to those government officials who are not doing government work today, they're rallying. Look, there's a Prime Minister's mandate, a high-level group approved, with government officials named Azarov, Rogovy, Jelchenko, Lavrinovich, Horoshkovsky. And the same task was assigned by a group of experts. In practice, ministers who were supposed to defend Ukraine’s interests, defend them in the negotiating process, never took part in it, sent their deputies and hid behind their backs. Shame on them, I'll tell them one thing. And the second. I understand the Rabbit today, he's in pain for Ukraine. But, Mr. Hare, you were the minister, you know what it is that the Cabinet of Ministers is producing policies that should take into account the interests and support of the deputy corps. Today, we have had our share of economic issues on the political fronts, and we do not want to listen to each other. The government has a warning. We also looked at our MP group, and we count that there should be warnings. I believe that when we join the EU, we also need a warning, because today our light industry, manufacturing, agriculture, it is not ready for the EU, and we need to prepare them, we need to draw them to this level. You can't do that without warning. So our group proposes to allow the government to complete this negotiation process. Those who have reasonable suggestions should be specifically presented by those who want to take part in this process, not by rallying and calling on the population. If we're really hurting for the population, for the economic development and for the standard of living of our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u71	The word is given to Dasutin Grigory Petrovich, a faction of political parties of industrialists and entrepreneurs and "Trouble Ukraine". Next up is Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u72	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The parliamentary faction of the political parties of the Ukrainian industry and entrepreneurs and the "Trudova Ukraine" has consistently advocated the integration of the country into European co-operation. I would like to point out that it has consistently advocated the country's integration into European society. However, integration does not mean that from now on, without any effort on our part, the state's economy will improve and the well-being of the population will come. It must be understood that only through intensive and clear work, focused primarily on Ukraine’s national problems, can living standards and economic development be achieved according to European standards. Our main goal is to actually increase per capita income. There is no doubt that Ukraine's economic positions in EU countries are determined by its status as a transit state, as well as by the fact that EU countries are attracted to the opportunity to use the Ukrainian market for sales and suppliers of raw materials. Neither the industry nor the agriculture of our country are of interest to the EU countries in the near future. The prospects for our output to European markets are far lower than those in markets of potential MEPs. And the very presence of these markets is a prerequisite for our economy. The only economic space is planned to be phased out and to move from one stage to the next in terms of when it will be in accordance with the national interests of Ukraine. Thus, the creation of a single economic space is not a step in the abyss. After each phase of joining the EP, Ukraine will summarize and analyse the situation. So not just in terms of the Single Economic Space, but in terms of the overall analysis of the economic sectors and the overall forecast of our market development that will prevent crises in different sectors. We will not forget that Ukraine will gain access to the market of the three nations when it creates the EP. Our country's trade with Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus now exceeds 20 percent and the external trade in energy is up to 100 percent. At the same time, trade with EU countries is less than 16 percent. The only economic space will allow not only to unify legislation within the EP itself but also to bring it into line with European norms. This is essential for all countries that are creating the EP. We are confident that, with the help of the EP, with the active cooperation of our partners with the SND, Ukraine will be able to grow economic muscles and thus successfully integrate into European structures, thus fulfilling its strategic task. We only need Europe as a state with a healthy economy. It is the EP that will help to overcome today’s economic difficulties. Cooperation with our partners with the SNI in the EP stresses this once again, should be an important step towards European integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u73	The word is given to Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction, next to Kravchuk Leonid Makarovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u74	Dear national deputies, distinguished members of the government. I'd like to start by saying to one minister, "Valery, bravo!" Today we are looking at, honourable national MPs, not a line document, a document that could cost the fate of Ukraine. I would like to start with a simple rhetorical question: what is the national interest of Ukraine when we talk about regional cooperation, trade and integration in general. What does this interest involve? What should ultimately be Ukraine’s national policy? In the East of Ukraine there is a traditional large market of SND countries and, above all, Russia. In this market there are working connections, there are some promising projects. Finally, there are sources of energy, in which both Ukraine and Ukraine are interested, on the one hand, and Europe, including. When it's governed by a fundamental market rule, the main thing is not how to produce, but where to sell it is 24.5 percent of Ukrainian exports. That is why Russia was and will certainly be Ukraine’s strategic economic partner. It would be foolish to give up this unique part of the market. The other one. In the western borders of Ukraine, starting with Poland, the Baltic countries, Slovakia, Hungary, there is the largest, strongest, most paying market in the world. The volume of gross product, dear friends, on that market amounts to $10 trillion, which is in itself equal to 228 national economies in Ukraine and 32 economies in Russia. By the way, there are 40 percent of Ukrainian exports today, and 40 percent of Ukrainian exports make up millions of jobs in Ukraine. These export relationships form billions into the national budget and the Ukrainian Pension Fund. So the main thing would be, dear friends of the people's deputies, a huge mistake in shaping our state policy in principle--or-or-or. We need to find the right policy from the point of view of national interests to answer, how do we form, not exclusive policies, but mutually reinforcing policies? If there is Ukrainian interest in the East, we should have a concept of Ukraine's interests in the East; if these interests are present in the West, we should have a Western concept. That's the first one. I would like to emphasize, not the policy of mutually exclusive integration, but the complementary policy. In order for this to happen, dear friends, regional policy, regional economic integration must follow the established rules and traditions adopted in the international economy and trade. It is only in that case that integration into the East is blocking Ukraine's process of European integration and interaction with the World Trade Organisation. So it's a fundamental principle, and I'm completely in solidarity with Valery Horoskowski's replica on this point. Third economic integration should not threaten national sovereignty. In other words, economic integration must correspond to the spirit and letter of the Constitution of Ukraine and the law. To immediately remove any speculation about the faction of our Ukraine and to tell myself personally, for developing a mutually beneficial and equitable relationship with Russia, we are for creating a free trade zone between countries without exclusion and restrictions. We are in agreement, not the only one, but the agreed, I stress, competition policy with Russia and other countries. But do we find answers in these documents? First. The agreement and the concept begin to create at least at the level of the customs union, not the creation of a free trade zone. This implies essentially a change in the strategic course of Ukraine. Secondly, it is proposed to create a supra-State regulator whose decision is binding on all parties. This is a loss of sovereign rights in the fields of finance, trade, fiscal and monetary policy. One more minute. It is unacceptable that a decision-making mechanism should be adopted by means of a balanced vote, taking into account the economic potential of the country. Look, dear friends, green is the voting rights of the Russian Federation, blue is eight. 9.9 percent is the voice of Ukraine. And to conclude: National experts and politicians warn that by signing an agreement on the only economic space in its current state, Ukraine will lose any prospect of Euro-integration, of joining the World Trade Organization. The proposed agreement in its present form contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine and leads to a loss of sovereignty, does not meet the course of European integration and is in fact a betrayal of Ukraine's national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u75	The word is given to Kravchuku Leonid Makarovich, a faction of the Social Democratic Party of Ukraine. [[united]] Next Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u76	Dear National Deputies! In 1991, after the signing of the agreement on SND in Belarus, we heard that. And the Supreme Council, by ratifying this document in strict compliance with the Constitution, made appropriate warnings and I, as President, was guided by them all the time when the issue within the SND was resolved. We have this right: by ratifying this document, to put them to the vote. After the vote, they will become binding on the President of Ukraine. I started by reminding myself of history. And now the facts are real. Is it good, or is it bad that we are so keen on this issue? Okay. We fear for independence, and that's the right thing to do. And that's right! But fear should not obscure our minds; fear should not give us advice. All factors, all internal and external factors underlying Ukraine’s national interests, must be taken into account. Ivan Aleksandrovich, I'm sorry for the rep, you reminded me that you've been jumping around the hall for 10 years, you don't know where to go. Next. The document should only be economic. Politics must be there as much as it provides for our economic interests. And if Ukraine were to become a free trade zone, it would be beneficial. By the way, the Free Trade Zone document signed by Ukraine and Russia in 1993. He can't be introduced for 10 years. And it's not because someone's good, it's someone's bad. It's a complex problem. The European Union has 50 years of history, and it's coming from pools different through the customs union, through the free trade zone, and the customs union, the monetary union -- and it's only now what it is. And we want to have everything right now. It's just not real. We do not need to be very afraid of the EP. We need to learn to use the mechanism of international organizations where we are going, including the EP, for our own benefit. Of course, we must be guided by the Constitution, by national laws. And no one has the right to deviate from its position, as no one has the right to monopolize, stress, monopolise, the only right to evaluate national interests and national patriotism. Does the Treaty conflict with the European course of Ukraine? Yes, the covenant is not perfect. But then we have to condemn the "Vegrad group", which was created, which worked, and which led the countries of this group to a faster accession to the European Union. Once again, I stress that our strategic target is the European Union, but tactical steps must be taken to resolve this issue as soon as possible. Is this agreement really about losing Ukraine for some time from sovereignty, so let's face it, it predicts. Here you have to clearly define the limit that we're losing, how and if we can go beyond the limit that we define. But we lose some part of our sovereignty, and when we join the European Union, it's also a perfect fact. That is why we cannot be like this today. We've been living in this aura for 12 years. What Russia is concerned with - some say only “no”, what the West touches, others say only “no”. And there has to be a middle, there has to be a compromise. Our problems are that we don't know how, we don't know how, we don't know how, we don't use our capabilities in international alliances or in relations with other countries. We need to be partners and learn to be partners. If we can't do that, then we have to say, "We can't defend our state, we can't defend state sovereignty." And with a scream that's not too high, you're not gonna cut anything. All that's needed here is an argument. And I don't support, let's say ideologies that everything in the contract is already great and that we're going to have and increase our machine-building right now, it's going to go right down the river, well, that's not true. It takes time, it takes wisdom, it needs balance, it needs to be learned to work, including maybe first and foremost with Russia. And for the rest. We have to talk about the only economic space that we have to tell people the truth about. If we just start by saying that tomorrow will be okay, it won't do any good. We've already passed: we'll accept the Constitution, we'll start better tomorrow, we'll enter somewhere, we'll get a better life. It's not that simple. It takes time, it takes skill, it takes intelligence. And, let's say today, dear friends, we can't do, let's say, poll people who haven't read the document. You can't. Deputies haven't read it. I'm talking to our sociologicals, I'm talking to our newspapers, don't make people lambs, even if they feed you, respect them. Because, you know, you've been through this before, it's already been done. The document hasn't been accepted yet, and I approve of it. And today, some are full of dodomy, some are total rejection. Here are some posters that show this kind of attitude. I emphasize that we should be smart about this document. The President of the Constitution, this is his mandate, has the right to sign international agreements, we have the right to ratify and everything. That's when we bring in the ratification, then we'll talk. Today, it's more like political talk, talking about where the election is. This does not help our discussion. I wish you luck.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u77	The word is given to Julia Timoshenko, the next Rajkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! My time's up, I'm asking you to listen a little. Dear colleagues! I might be talking about completely unpopular things on the left and right. I want to say that I have great respect for the Russian Federation as a minimum for the fact that the Russian Duma is significantly different from the Ukrainian Parliament. I'll tell you what's different. They can argue over internal issues as long as they can, but when there is at least a fundamental threat to Russia's national interests, they unite left, right, any and become unanimous in their vote to defend national interests. The Ukrainian Parliament has been for many years - many years! - tearing people's national interests apart. At first, we stand clear in the positions of the Western and Western countries. When we give up nuclear weapons, when we close Chernobyl without any compensation, when we don't publicly discuss with you the same conditions of entry into WTO, and we know with you how many things there are that we need to lead to a certain level. And we know that until we've developed our industry properly, our market will be mastered in three minutes. We know very well when we are voting on Iraqi issues where the national interests of Ukraine are located and in which documents are then prescribed. When other questions arise, including the only economic space, we are torn apart by Russia’s national interests. Dear friends! I only want a real Ukrainian lobby to be born in Ukraine, in parliament, in a political lobby that will read every piece of paper that will count how this will happen in the lives of each of us and in our country. And that's why I want us to put all our political "creatures" outside Ukraine and let us look at the document that we're reading today. And in this document, besides "water," there are two absolutely real things that we have to say with you. It's about what's written here, in the original language: "Ensure non-discriminatory access and equal tariffs for services of natural monopolies." If you translate it into a clear language, it says here that prices for all energy transmissions, and I think Mr. Azarov as a person who has worked for many years on the economic block can distinguish two definitions: tariffs and prices. These are different things. The tariffs are just for transportation. This means that transport through oil and gas lines, it will remain as it is today, is equal throughout the territory. And the prices, they're being marketed, and today there's no monopoly in Russia on oil and gas production, and that's why prices are going to be put by owners, not by states. And how can we even raise the question that price formation will be handled by the state? I want to say that another great grief for Ukraine is that, in positions that decide on Ukraine's strategic economic policy, as Mr. Azarov does, there are not professional economists, financiers who have received education, but marchers who have completed the mining institution. And this is Mr. Azarov, who originally taxed the whole country with taxes, who doesn't understand what tax policy is at all, and today he's involved in international economic relations with the same knowledge and with the same level of qualification. And I'll tell you that there are such terrible situations in Parliament where, for example, the faction "European Choice" led by Mr. Azarov in the shadow sector is practically ruining the country's European choice. This mimicry is not going to lead to anything good. And the last thing I want to say to both the left and right sectors. Yeah, I want to talk about the second position that is real in this agreement. This is about a national government body. I want you to understand that this agreement conveys all the authority's full powers to sign any agreements, any documents and virtually accept them. Ukraine will have 9.9 percent of the vote there, Russia 83 percent. Don't ask the question of "love or not love Russia," don't ask the question. If you're in favor of the EP, you love Russia, if you're against the EP, you don't like Russia. This question is totally inappropriate. We love and respect Russia, but with our heart, our mind, our soul, our lives, we have to stand in Ukraine's position. And that's why the creation of such a superstate body, it contradicts the possibility of being a player in this economic space, of being an influential country in making decisions. Let's take this position down, let's take down everything that contradicts the Constitution, the laws, the international agreements. What are we, adventurers? We haven't made international agreements? The Constitution was adopted, and then we're not going to do it? We just don't have the right to do that. We have to keep moving. And the last thing I want to say. And on the left and right side of the room, I ask you to think about which person in Ukraine led the country first one way and signed dozens of international agreements on the side of European choice, and now the same person leads to a completely diametrically different side and signs the same international agreements that will be ratified. I want you to think about our Ukraine being torn apart in two parts. And I'm asking you to read Hankigton's hard work on the Battle of Civilizations, where it says that Ukraine is a broken country. And we have no right to give any official an increase in these trends. I'm only asking for a strong patriotic position! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u79	The word is given to Rajkov Boris Sergiyovich, the group "Democratic Initiatives". Next up, Nikolainka. Follow the Rules, reverends.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u80	Honorable fellow workers! Globalization to a modern integrated world is forcing us to look for a model of state development that is primarily geared towards national services. History raises a sharp question to which we are forced to give an honest and frank answer. The nearness of the signing of the Single Economic Space Agreement makes us appreciate the economic benefits of Ukraine’s membership in a new union. There is a heated debate in political and economic circles around Kiev’s role in this project. Convinced, Ukraine should implement all the initiatives that can be mutually beneficial and interesting in the future. And in this context, expanding cooperation with the SND countries and, above all, with the Russian Federation is a clear and logical step. And I think what's being asked about energy prices, I think both in tariff policy and in price, in the end, is going to benefit our businesses. At the same time, there is a real European perspective ahead of Ukraine, with reforms deepening and the state's market economy status. Ukraine will become an equally interesting partner for the EU countries than some Eastern European countries. And that perspective depends largely on us. But Ukraine cannot pursue modern European integration policies if it is constantly opposed to Russia. Convinced, any union can be interstate, but never superstate. Politics has to serve the economy, and in no way can it be an independent sphere of the interests of any nation, if there is no pragmatic solution -- would it be advantageous to the economic people living in this country? At the same time, we cannot give priority to sovereignty for economic or any other purpose. We cannot limit Ukraine’s national sovereignty, take an anti - state position. Dear colleagues! Ukraine needs integration into its national interests, contributes to the development of the national economy and accelerates the implementation of Euro-integration processes. There can be no single economic space if cooperation within this association takes place on the principles of equality and partnership, taking into account the warnings expressed. In this case, we support the idea of Ukraine’s active participation in this integration union. The Democratic Initiative Group welcomes the prospect of Ukraine entering a single economic space, provided that the warnings are taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, let us consult. Now we have a break. What suggestions? Continue or Break? VIOLENCE FROM THE PLACE Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u82	Are we moving on? Please, Nikolayenko Stanislaw Mikolayovich. That's how we work all the time? It's the next Desert Shadow.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u83	Dear national MPs, distinguished members of the government, citizens of Ukraine! We've come across you today, as in a famous parable, in a situation where some advise a young man to marry, others advise you not to marry, and if you don't, you'll still be a fool. I think we need to throw away our emotions now and make sure we're not stupid. For the socialist party of Ukraine, the issue of establishing close integration relationships with our neighbours, primarily the SND - Russia - Belarus countries, is a strategic principle. It fully fits our programming goals and ambushes. Socialists have often suggested solutions to mature problems in this area. We have close links with the left and left centrist parties in these countries. At the same time, the Socialist Party also actively cooperates with the European Left. We're planning to join Socitern. How do socialists appreciate the single economic space agreement? For us here is the preservation of Ukraine's independence and independence, Ukraine's interests and the interests of every ordinary citizen, every human being. Will the Ukrainians live better, or will the oligarchs of Ukrainian and Russian - Bresian, Gusinian, Friedman, Cubans, and so forth put us together? Today, 890 percent of the oil processing in Ukraine belongs to the Russian business. What's happening today with prices for fuel-oil materials, we see and see the results of this. Socialist MPs had the necessary documents in their hands for the first time this morning, and they expressed concern about the deterioration of economic relations between Ukraine and Russia during the discussion of these documents. We don't understand why our President has been waiting since 1994 and so far, let's say he hasn't taken any serious steps towards improving relations with the SND countries, especially Russia, why isn't there a free trade agreement signed in 1994? Why do we lose markets in the East? But Mikola Janović called today the loss figure just this year. The documents given to us, the answers, unfortunately, do not give us. Let's take a closer look at these documents. We have doubts today about article 4 of the draft treaty, which proposes that part of the State's powers be handed over to a single non-State regulator. It will decide according to the economic potential of the countries. Synchronising folder Russia today has an internal gross product of $427 billion, Ukraine of about 50. So Russia is going to have 80 percent today, we're going to have 10. Here you have to think, here's the problem. Or the position of diverse and diverse integration. If Russia, for example, slows down the price of gas and oil for a few years, the price in Russia today is 20 dollars per thousand cubic meters, in Ukraine it is 60. What will our companies, energy - generated companies, and so forth do? They just can't stand the competition within the EP and they're going to fall. The experience of a similar economic space in Russia, Belarus, and Kazakhstan has shown that the economy of Russia is still winning. And one more thing. We are concerned that during the 10 years of Leonid Kuchma’s reign, these problems, I repeat, have not been resolved. Why? And today we see that Vladimir Putin, as he prepares for the elections, increases the image of the "gatherer of Russian lands." Our oligarchs also use, they want to be saved by receiving support from Russia. We are confident today that without the radical change of power in Ukraine and Russia, overcoming corruption, the oligarchic power, we will not solve the problems and live in Ukraine will not be easier, by the way, for the Russians. What socialists are offering. First. There is no decision to make today. We demand from the government full calculations, figures, analysis that awaits us from joining the EP that every person in Ukraine gets. This will be decisive for us when we make decisions. The other one. Without these calculations and figures, we suggest, once again, that we don't make any decisions. Let the President, the government take responsibility, sign a document, come to Parliament with ready decisions, give us all these figures, complete picture, then we'll make that decision. We will make this decision with a clear mind. We can't use the 91st criteria today, we can't use the criteria in 2003. Today, it is very bad that one part of the hall is lobbying the interests of the American, the other part Russian. The Socialists want to lobby the interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u84	The word is given to the Desert of Valery Pavlovich, the faction of the People's Democratic Party. The next one is Richter's.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u85	Yes, as soon as the Empty Tank has been given the word, it means a break. Dear national deputies, distinguished members of the government. The People's Democratic Party has always been the leader of the Euro-Integration Policy, which is reflected in its programming documents, and in particular in the Basic Principles of International Policy. In fact, until recently, despite all the complexity of politics, the People's Democratic Party has been a proponent of state policy in the international sphere, because the declaration of power was compatible with the party's programming requirement. From experience, I would like to testify that in the political history of modern Ukraine there has been no recent episode when, in relations with Russia, our other partners in the Eurasian space have been grossly ignored whether they have become hostages of Euro-integration policy. On the contrary, every step taken by Ukraine, the Ukrainian government was calculated on the basis of the need to preserve Eurasian markets for domestic industry and the APC, to ensure close cooperation in the humanitarian field, economic integration on the basis of free trade. I want to give you a little bit of an example, and I talked about it on the Conciliation Council yesterday, and I've kept a transcript of my meeting with Boris Mikolayovich Yeltsin, to whom I refer with great respect, since August 16, 1997. I'll read a little thesis. "Boris Nikolaevich, can we make a bid on the main areas of economic cooperation, the programme for 10 years?" [[There was a big conversation there, very modern, I think, and it's relevant today.]] Boris Nikolaevich answers: "This is a good initiative for you and let us sign this program in a demanding environment in Moscow or Kiev." [[I repeat, my initiative, I must say this.]] - I say to him, "I think it's better in Moscow. This document could complement the visit of our President Leonid Kuchma.” Because Leonid Danilovich Kuchma was driving or was supposed to go to Moscow. After that, a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers was convened, and for 10 years Sergey Osika, Minister for Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, was appointed. The program was executed, done, adopted at the Cabinet of Ministers and signed by our President. What did it predict? It was very simple. By the time we had a conversation, the 1996 shipment was 17.8 billion dollars, down by 3 billion, now 12 billion dollars. And the program predicted that our economic relations should be 30 billion dollars, dollars, I'm sorry. Think about these numbers. It's practically double. And it happened the other way around. Then what step did we take when we started working more on this basis, we created, and I'm grateful to Parliament, and now I've seen how the vote went, the government has accepted economic justification, and unfortunately, and I want to ask you not to offend each other. I have great respect for Mikola Janovich Azarov, he's a doctor of technical science, he's involved in the development of the tax system, the administration, and Yulu Timoshenko. We're all human beings, we shouldn't be keeping accounts with each other, because this is the future of our nation. What did we do? We've decided on the government to create a free trade zone. '99. And Parliament by secret vote, I thank only for the support of the communists at the time, we voted, we won 227 votes. [[voted three times]] And by the time they had voted in general, there were 232. I was thinking, I wanted to tell you what factions supported, how they voted against it, so they stayed. And in these years neither the government of Yushchenka. Well, I must have been filmed, I understand, for expressing some kind of pro-Russian position. I think so. Neither the government of Yushchenka nor Anatoly Kirilovich Kinah, Victor Andryovich Yushchenka, has been able to implement - why? - that's the zone we're going to introduce. Because the Duma, the State of Russia, ratified this treaty to this day, and it remains today. And if we've been working today, we've already moved forward in this direction. And what I'm saying today is that I'm not happy with whether or not I'm transparent about making these decisions and considering them. So the People's Democratic Party is proposing, first of all, the next step, is to postpone signing any agreements on integration processes and in the project between the SND countries until the development is complete and there will be no more. Ukraine's integration programme into the European Community. It is appropriate to limit ourselves to the declaration of intent to reflect the idea of priority in European choice. This is relevant not only for Ukraine but also for Russia, which is also true. the cooperation programme with the European Union. Given that in 199, the Ukrainian government had made a great deal of efforts to conclude, I conclude, the agreement to establish a zone of free trade in SND countries, and the Supreme Council had ratified it that year, it was necessary to focus on the implementation of these decisions. The practice of applying bilateral free trade agreements has allowed us to analyze all the positives and negatives of such integration and to draw appropriate conclusions on further steps. Politically ensure the active and direct participation of parliamentarians in the early stages of developing such projects, taking into account the fact that an active government is formed and working on the principles of coalitionism and must conduct transparent political accountable policies. To return to the problem of reforming the majority on the basis of factions and groups and developing a political and economic platform for the parliamentary coalition, which will allow for better political control of government work and government implementation. And the last. The issues of foreign and political priorities must finally be settled at the legislative level and the requirements of a valid Constitution as laws on basic principles of foreign and domestic policy in Ukraine. I believe that during the autumn and spring sessions, the work on this bill could have been completed. And we don't have that kind of controversy in Parliament anymore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u86	Richter's Raisa Vasilovna, faction of "Ukraine" next, Vasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u87	Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, distinguished Victor Fedorovich, members of the government. Today, we are really discussing a question that has a viable solution for our society and for our nation. Unfortunately, at this responsible time, we observe that our discussion is becoming more of a political debate. I would very much not like to see a split in this matter among our political elites now. And I would like to call on the faction of the "Ukraine" of all of us today, discussing this issue, to find a step towards meeting each other to make a balanced, compromise decision. We know the chronology of this issue in the government, during which the maximum effort was made to take into account the different positions of different ministries. The Cabinet of Ministers decided to take into account the key observations and warnings regarding the existing draft agreement on the EP with a view to concluding the agreement: first, it was not contrary to the Constitution, to valid legislation, and it was accepted by our Western partners. So it's kind of inappropriate, in my opinion, and it's strange that today, when you throw aside the government, moments about ignoring Ukraine's interests on the part of those who, by making loud statements, are primarily driven by these statements by emotion and desire to speculate on this painful subject. You don't have to make that kind of political capital. And I think the First Vice Prime Minister, Mikola Azarov, has very carefully outlined all the positions of the overwhelming step to meet with the signing of this agreement. Dear colleagues! I would have liked to have tried three things before we took things into consideration, and the calculated decision, but we still had to try to figure out three things. The first is the economic component. The second is political. And the third is social. I would like to start with an economic component and, without offending the representatives of the various ministries, I would like the representatives of the Ministry of Economics not to express their own views when they meet with the people's deputies, but to be guided by the decision of the government and not to issue their own opinions for the decision, but to give economic reasons, positive or negative to the decision. It is we, the people's deputies, who have full economic information, who will make decisions. As for the solution of statements and the points of political relevance. I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is able today to make a political forecast of what the consequences may be from one step or another and to change the negatives from both our Western partners and from our Eastern partners. And that's what I call it. It's about the social components. Many today have talked about the advantages that our voters expect of us, the decisions and the sociological research reports that today the vast majority of the population of Ukraine are looking forward to an economic, more dense relationship with the countries mentioned above. Dear friends! As we discuss these documents, we still need to support the logic of the international instruments signed by Ukraine. And there's some caution in the faction of the "Ukrainen Region" about the introduction of the free labour market into the WTO and so forth. We will continue to speak with the government and in this room. But I would like us to take an effective step towards entering Ukraine into the free trade zone by supporting these documents in a framework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u88	Vaszczuk Katerina Timofievna, faction of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine Next Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, it is good that today such a substantive discussion is going on in Parliament, it is good that we have had the opportunity to participate in a government meeting, studying those important documents that are of value to Ukraine. And it will be our last word to work for them, to be accepted and ratified by Parliament or not? Today, you really need to measure seven times in order to cut off correctly. Like those deputies who spoke today, I am sad that we have such polarity. The truth is, it's probably in the middle. We cannot afford to reject today any possibility of improving Ukraine's economic ties. But at the same time, we cannot but analyze what will give us for the economy of Ukraine, for the well-being of every citizen of a given treaty? Are a few, say, at almost one economic level, and on a European scale, the poor nations united into clusters will give the potential to move forward or not? Will this agreement allow us to move to Europe or close the door? We need to study all of this very carefully. At the faction meeting in the morning, we had very little time to examine each item of this agreement very carefully. However, we have noted that we support the government's position for economic, close economic cooperation with Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, with those republics that want to sign this agreement. We support the creation of a free zone of trade, it will help us expand our market, it will help us to develop, and it will also give us jobs, not send our people abroad to work in a city of Europe where we don't have much respect for our citizens who have come to make money. At the same time, the faction with the warning refers to the creation of an organ that can be an organ that dictates, as the voices there are distributed according to economic potential. This right over here is a warning. And like the other speakers, we'd like to have clear economic calculations on each point of the agreement. We need to know clearly how the agricultural sector will feel when we have a signed agreement in the form of our energy, industry, all other sectors of the Ukrainian people's agriculture. So this agreement is certainly a step forward in economic relations with neighbours, but it must not be in conflict with the Constitution, with Ukraine's legislation, with previously signed international agreements. That's the faction's position. We're going to keep working on that document, and we think the final word we're going to say when the document has to be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u90	Thank you. The word is given to Gapoczki Mikola Mikhailovich, the People's Choice Group. Next up is Hubsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u91	Honorable members of the government, honourable deputies. The People's Choice Group supports the creation of a single economic space in four countries. To our conviction, this step is aimed at creating the prerequisites for improving and developing the domestic economy and its transition to a new level. Lately, European economic issues. It's the only one. A lot of heated discussions took place. Indeed, it is very important. But much depends on the future fate of our nation as a result of the creation or non - creation of this union. His consideration should therefore be based, not on emotion, but on economic pragmatism. Yes, we must primarily protect national interests. But if we evaluate the creation of a single economic space objectively, we can conclude that this process does not harm Ukraine’s sovereignty or our country’s desire to join the European Union. It's only about closer cooperation in a group of countries, and that's all. So where is the threat of sovereignty? One of the main arguments against creating a single economic space is the inadequacy of making a treaty with Ukraine. In fact, who understands Ukraine’s current relationship with the European Union well understands that only an economically strong country can claim a place under the roof of a European society, and the weak are not taken there. It is natural that the final text of the document needs some work, first of all, to harmonize its provisions with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and Ukrainian legislation. At the same time, there is good reason to say that the creation of a single economic space is a very important step to improve the situation in many areas of the economy and its further development. One of the consequences of the signing of the single economic space agreement should be the creation of a free trade zone that would end trade wars between neighbouring countries. The creation of a free trade zone will allow Ukrainian producers to significantly increase their production, because the potential countries in the single economic space are more than 200 million consumer resources. In addition, the availability of a free trade zone will reduce the costs associated with the movement of goods in markets, the expansion of the market’s capacity, and thus make it more attractive to the interests. So a free trade zone is a pragmatic step that will stimulate the development of the domestic economy. I would also like to point out that according to the report, the social majority of our citizens, the population, about 70 percent, support the creation of a single economic space. I think in making a decision on this issue, we should take into account the thoughts of the people who chose us. That's why the People's Choice Group supports the signing of a single economic space agreement. We are confident that this step is in the interests of the Ukrainian economy and the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u92	Bogdan Hubsky. People's Landing Group, next up, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u93	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Members of the Government. We recently celebrated the 12th anniversary of Ukraine's independence. This independence has been cultivated for centuries and has been dreamed of by generations of Ukrainians. Today, Ukraine has a worthy and prominent place in the European and world community, making a huge, important contribution to the development of world civilization, the solution of the political and economic problems of mankind. A developed economy, an outstanding, truly outstanding scientific and technological potential, allows our country to really and truly take the lead in the world's distribution of labor. The strategic direction for Ukraine's further development, as we know, in the message of the President of Ukraine, is European integration. At the same time, increasing and enhancing the effectiveness of cooperation with the member states of the SND and, in particular, with Russia is an essential element of this strategy. We need to be clear that there are no alternatives to close cooperation between Ukraine and neighbouring countries, and especially with Russia. But despite all the real significance of Ukraine's strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, the model proposed today needs some. Some warnings and further ratification procedures. This is necessary to prevent possible differences between Ukraine's entry into the single economic space and European integration, its membership in the World Trade Organization, and other European structures. And these questions need to be solved. For example, Ukraine today has a wide range of agreements with European countries in the process of joining the European Union, signed on the principles defined and adopted by the European Union. The same is true of Ukraine’s free trade zone in Belarus, Kazakhstan, and the Russian Federation. Today we must have clear, clear and clear prospects for Ukraine's participation not only in the area of free trade with these countries, but also with the European Union, Georgia, Armenia, Moldova, Uzbekistan. If this is not done, the process of creating a single economic space will remain only on paper. We emphasize the creation of a free trade zone with Russia on the principles and principles of the World Trade Organization in the absence of aid for individual states in the form of removals, removals related to energy resources and transit, and in accordance with any treaty of the international Constitution of Ukraine. Next. Within the framework of the EP, a single regulatory body is defined, the decision of which must be binding. And a number of rights should be delegated to this commission, such as Ukraine, with regard to regulation, such as the external and internal economic strategy. According to many legal authorities, such as the Ministry of Justice, we have seen that a number of positions relating to the establishment of this commission are contrary to the Constitution of our State. And it seems to us that it is not possible for any international agreement to conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and violate the constitutional will of Ukrainian citizens. Moreover, there are conclusions from many ministries that it is not desirable to delegate to Ukraine its constitutional powers to any national authority. In all of this, we also lose our right to veto decisions regarding sovereignty. Of course, we are today, and we consider this to be clear, and we must cooperate with Russia, but only in the directions and boundaries that correspond to national interests do not conflict with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, and the international agreements signed by Ukraine. In view of this, in the case of the signing of the corresponding agreement, it will be necessary to assess all aspects related to the warnings prepared by the relevant ministries, departments, government and, after that, to approach the ratification of the agreement exclusively in the manner required by the Ukrainian law "On International Contracts". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u94	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! The discussion on this issue shows that Ukraine is abroad at a crossroads. Where to go and with whom to go is not the question today. To go equal or to be a political vassal? We must find the answer to that question today. Yes, we Communists understand that the solution to the Single Economic Area will not immediately change the situation for the better, create a different situation for many workers, restore jobs and pay. And this idea, unfortunately, can only be used by the oligarchies to satisfy their interests, and they are opposed to those of them today who first see the threat to their over-preventions and the destruction of their market. Yes, unfortunately, the political forces and, above all, the right-wing nationalists are again trying to intimidate the empire and other “isms”. We also understand their position, as determined not by national interests, as confirmed by the 12-year destruction of Ukraine in an independent environment, but by the execution of the team: to go to the West. We, the Communists, propose to address this issue without political hysteria and based on a scientifically sound forecast. Our agenda today is primarily the perspective of geopolitical Ukraine. And in my view, the creation of a single economic space is not just a search for a solution to the current problems in the context of the systematic crisis and the enormous failures Ukraine has. This is first and foremost a search for development prospects, taking into account the challenges of the resource base and, above all, mineral resources. For its opponents, some figures would like to be given. However, when they say they are moving to Europe, no figures have been given. And I'd like to propose the following for thought. According to an expert evaluation of foreign exploration and estimated minerals only in the Russian Federation, which will be part of a single economic space, more than $30 trillion. Russia's share of the world's strategic stocks: oil - 20 per cent, gas - 35, coal - 12, nickel - more than a third of the world's reserves, iron ore - 27, apathy - 64 per cent, platinum, gold, diamonds - the world's first, third, mining and natural mass of other minerals that Ukraine can use if we have the right position based on national interests. What am I talking about? The entire world community is today fighting for the geopolitical strategic interests of its development. And in Iraq, the United States of America, where the right political forces sent our soldiers to die, went for oil because they lack oil today. It is not a simple question of a single economic space today. By the way, according to the natural component of national wealth, once again, Russia is ten times ahead of the United States of America and 27 times to Europe. That is why, comrades, in making a political decision today, we must base ourselves on both geopolitical and strategic interests of Ukraine. It's not today when they say "get away from Moscow," in 1991 they called "whose fat did they eat?"and in 2003 we extend our arms and ask, "Moscow, give bread to feed the people of Ukraine." In Europe, we are demeaningly referred to as neighbours or as uninvited guests. We know who they're referring to. Some kind of shrapnel, giving signals of a desire to join the EEA, demanding a feedback signal, not noticing that this signal has long been a day and it is red. Under the red European lamp, entry visas are introduced for Ukrainians, sanitary borders are established, anti-dumping investigations are being conducted to close the way to Ukrainian goods in the West. One thing they want is to send a soldier to Iraq so that instead of the Americans, they'll die and we'll see what we can do in return. It seems that a certain part of the nationalist politicians have a dangerous relapse of political colorism, they break into red light when there is green light, and they can be looked at. But the trouble is that the people suffer from this colorism, the economy of Ukraine is destroyed, the economy is lost. In practice, the economic independence of the country has been lost. But I would like to ask you one more question, dear colleagues: in the opinion of our people, 78 per cent support the idea of a single economic space. If anyone doubts, we, the Communists, propose at any time: let us hold an all-Ukrainian referendum on a particular issue, and then we will see what we, the people of Ukraine, today calls for and what powers we have. Furthermore, the turnover in the future of a single economic space is a trade of various products, but it is a positive development for us, Ukraine, that it enables us to implement machines and different equipment and equipment, not just raw materials. Dear comrades, here is the second problem that we should consider: Ukraine is a commodity of the West and of Europe. Today, we would like to see Ukraine technologically developed. Therefore, a much more unified economic space will contribute to this. By the way, if Ukraine is a commodity asset today, I would not want it to continue to become a waste dump in the West, as they did in Pavlovgrad, by the way, when they were taking weapons out. And for reference, within the framework of the Union of Ukraine, 100 billion rubles of goods were traded with States today alone, but were republics. And last but not least, what kind of proposals. In making a decision, it is primarily in the interests of the people of Ukraine. And that's what the Communist faction will insist on. Second. Clear perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u96	Regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u97	Yes, there's more than half, in two regulations, Vladimir Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u98	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u99	It is clear that there is a real perspective for Ukraine and under what conditions, depending naturally on the wisdom of both our peoples and the political leadership of the country. Third. In making a political decision, we Communists understand that entering a single economic space is above all economic and today it is a socio-economic issue. We must address the problem of unemployment because 5 million Ukrainian citizens are working precisely in those States that are planning to create a single economic space. We're talking about heat being in every house, because there's no other source of energy in Ukraine for oil, gas and nuclear power plants. We're talking about pension insurance because people have to be fair. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u100	Finish up, please. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u101	And the last. I believe that the statement made by the three ministers today confirmed that the provisional Government, led by Yanukovic, is essentially completing its mandate. That is why I would suggest the following. If there is a president in Ukraine today, there must be a decree today to release three ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u102	Microphone, microphone. Yes, the replica, John the Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u103	To those who call my name is removed, I answer to Mr. Pehoti. Azarov said he was an economist, but he didn't name any numbers to support the agreements. And as an economist, I'm going to name one digit. When these agreements are signed by the President and implemented by the President, the macroeconomic harmonization mentioned in the agreement will end with the introduction of the ruble instead of the bracelet, which will be called the epoch. Then the bracelet will be equal to 17 copies, that is, our Ukrainian people will be poor six times. Now you're pulling, respectable communists, into such a Soviet Union. Now he said that I was the minister, and I have to work with Azari, because he's also the minister. I can't be in solidarity with those who are giving up Ukraine, who are giving up sovereignty. But I am in solidarity with Horoshkovsky, who is in favor of Ukraine’s national interests. And Leonid Makarovich, who said that I had jumped in the hall for ten years. Yeah, I jumped in the hall. And Leonid Makarovich, thanks to people like me, was the President. But I jumped because I was determined, and Leonid Makarovich and today he doesn't know where to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u104	Thank you. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u105	I'm done. He gives up his sovereignty, just as he gave up. So he needs to know that this decision will give rise to opposition, respectful people, split society, not raise opposition to the Mafia.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u106	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u107	So, Leonid Makarovich, don't give up Ukraine! You were the first president.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u108	Microphone. Thank you. [[Applause]] Anatoly Matvienko. Then Mikola Janović Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I have asked for the floor and insisted that I am the author of the draft Decree 4152 with a group of deputies in the Ukrainian Republican Party. This provision provides, at first glance, for perhaps very strict standards. Today, we demand that we ask questions about the properness of Mr. Azarov’s position. We demand that the President be advised not to sign the agreement. And when it's signed, it's really a question of starting an impeachment procedure. It's not our will and it's not some kind of special policy demonstration today, because today we have to understand that no one has the right to forbid anyone from loving Russia or not to love and screaming about it, "Damn!" or "No!" No one has the right to deny loving America or any other Western country and to call it "Damn!" But to the one who is betraying the interests of Ukraine today, we today have all of us together in the Supreme Council to say, "Damn!" And don't let that happen. From our firm beliefs, we have no right to remain silent today when we see that we are taking the first steps towards betrayal, which is exactly what the President wants to do for days if we let him do it in Yalta. We don't have the right, because if you give me your finger, they'll bite your hand off your elbow. The other one. I would like us to understand not only that there is a threat or no threat today, but also the nature of why the Supreme Council today should be facing the situation at the very last moment. And I'd like to draw your attention. I conducted a proper investigation to show that we are being fed half the truth from the Supreme Council. And as a result, we have this kind of tension that was created today in the hall. Look, please. I have a copy of the document signed by Leonid Danilovich, our President, in Moscow on February 23, 2003, where he has already violated the Constitution by signing this document on intentions, on the formation of national, international formations. But we didn't know that. It was closed to both the press and society, and, unfortunately, to the Supreme Council. Document number two is a statement that has already been prepared. It should be signed in Yalta. This document says that besides these two documents, it turns out that there is a third document: a set of basic measures for the formation of the EP, and they approve it. [[These are agreements and concepts.]] I ask Mr. Azarov: where is this document? Why don't you say a word about this document from this rostrum? And finally, the last. Victor Fedorovich, I'm addressing you. It's not clear whether there's a position of head of government, whether there's a position of your own. Three ministers say you have to sign with warnings or maybe sign, Azarov doesn't say anything, pushing you into traitors, the whole Supreme Council and the President. I would like you to say, what is the position, and in what way today, in protecting national interests, do we have to speak with you in solidarity or ask you to resign if you are unable to defend national interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u110	Thank you. Azarov Mikola Janović, please First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. May I have your attention, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u111	I would like to answer literally three questions, very briefly, because they sounded in the hall. First, for Matviekno's information. This secret statement, signed by the President, was published in our press. Here's a copy. Second, for Matvienko's information, there is really no yet set of measures. And we have not yet agreed on a set of measures; we have not been able to agree on seven rounds of our negotiations. For the time being, only the most general framework, the most common, which is not only ready for signature, but not ready for consideration. Finally, last. There were many objections to a single decision-making body. Even the diagrams showed up from the fish. It was the most controversial issue that we had not agreed on in a large way. And if. Enough, you'll finally learn to listen! Because if you can't listen, then you can't make decisions. This is, unfortunately, your distinctive feature. So here, I'm reading exactly how we wrote this paragraph. We have debated a great deal and, finally, we have come to the view that in a single regulatory body, decisions on all issues are taken by a weighted vote, prior to the speech, the principle of the EEC. The number of votes of each party shall be determined on the basis of its economic potential. Now, one minute, don't interrupt, listen. We have debated for a very long time what the principle should be. And the Russians say, “Listen, you people, to the decision you are about to make, they will be a great loss to us.” Then there must be some compensation mechanism.” We agreed, well, on the basis of economic potential. But let's think about it, given the economic potential. With what proportion, in proportion, is it disproportionate? We left the paragraph behind the brackets of the agreement and wrote: “The distribution of votes shall be determined by agreement of the parties”. That's it, respectable. We will continue to debate this issue for a long time, how. Now. Let's move on. I answer a particular question. The decision-making mechanism in the regulatory body is not indicated in this framework. An agreement is to be drawn up. Finally, the main thing. We have recorded that any party has the right to submit proposals to the Council of Heads of State, which is a determining body, for a review of the decision of a single regulator. The Council of Heads of State records: the decision is taken by consensus. So where, interestingly, is here.? These diagrams that you've been shown, they're completely out of date.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u112	Now, one minute. A replica? There was no mention of your last name. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, let's define. We agreed on a procedure for dealing with the matter. You voted. We now have a number of regulations and a proposal for us to make decisions today. That's why we have to do it first. One more minute, calm down. Dear colleagues! I'm reading to you what decisions the projects have made. If the National MP Zvaric removes his offer now, we will not vote. I am following the proposal proposed by the deputies. Ivan Alexandrovich, come on. Roman Zvaric introduced the draft decision he was proposing. Please, Adam Martinyuk. Matron, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u113	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Martinyuk, the Communist faction. Dear representatives of our Ukraine and Ivana Alexandrovich Zajite! Hare?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u114	Ivan Alexanderovich! Well, I'm asking for your attention. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u115	The hare still doesn't hear, so I'm talking to you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You're doing the right thing, according to the Rules. You have no right not to put to the vote the proposal of the National MP Zvaric. According to the Rules, the National MP Zvaric proposes to withdraw today from the rule of the Rules that the rulings are voted on or other matters only on Thursday and to vote after the discussion of the matter. The cook is absolutely right and we need to see if we're going to do this ad hoc today. That's the first one. And the second. Indeed, each of us has a right, all the more so that we do not confirm with you what has not yet been signed. We're just going to make our vote today, and we're going to express our views on how we're going to feel when we ratify it. And there are absolutely no errands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! To bring peace and bring the work of the Supreme Council to order, there is a proposal for a draft regulation number 4158 - one minute - 4158 as the draft decree of the National Deputies of Zvarič and Klukkowski on the change of voting time in the conclusion of the decision to review the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the preparation and possible geopolitical and socio-economic consequences for Ukraine of the signing of the agreement between the Russian Federation, Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and Kazakhstan on the creation of a single economic space. I am voting on a draft decree to move away from the Rules and to vote on all proposed decisions on this matter. I'll put it to a vote, please. "To" - 191 The decision is not made. The rulings proposed in this regard will be considered on Thursday, the day of the vote. Replica, Matthew, please. Ivan Alexandrovich, please contact Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk's committee. Please contact the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u117	Ukrainian Republican Party, Sobor, Yulia Timoshenko block, Matvienko. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Members of the Government! I understand that you can manipulate any fact today and show it, and justify your position. This includes the first vice-premier. Serve Ukraine, not justify President Kuchma's mistake. I'm telling you a fact that gives me the right to talk about us going to betray Ukraine. There's a group called the High Level Group, where the First Vice Prime Minister is included. So at 3:08 p.m. at 6:30 p.m., this group agreed to a statement, a statement by the presidents of the four countries saying that they approve a set of basic principles-based measures and have this high-level group prepare details by December 1. So let's talk about things we know. And the second. Dear First Vice Prime Minister, if you're saying that we still know about the national authority, then why are you pushing us to sign this document? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The question has been discussed, and we will make decisions on Thursday. I ask the committees to consider all those draft statements that have come forward today so that we can consider them on the day of the vote. I thank the members of the Cabinet of Ministers who participated in this discussion. The draft Law on International Technical Assistance is being announced. It's 13 o'clock, we've already skipped. Dear colleagues, let's work in two hours. Please. The draft law on international technical assistance, the State Undersecretary of the Ministry of Economics and European Integration, Bevolodymir Aleksandrović, is under review. Is there a Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Beruchenko? Is there a reporter, Your Honor? Where's the reporter? No, I can't see the letter, I won't see you. I don't have a letter. I'm talking to the government: where's the reporter? The committee. Please, the committee proposes the following Rules of Procedure: a reporter - 5 minutes, answers to questions - 5 minutes, a co-report - 3 minutes, answer to questions - 5 and discussion and decision-making - 10 minutes. What will be the comments and warnings? You don't? Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u119	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! You were presented with a draft Ukrainian law on international technical assistance introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Its aim is to create a legal basis for settling relations that arise from the involvement and use of international technical assistance. and bringing Ukraine's national legislation into line with the provisions of valid international agreements with the provision of international technical assistance. In particular, this is a series of agreements that are signed: a framework agreement between Ukraine and the European Development Bank and a restructuring of the Chernobyl Fund for Protection in Ukraine, an agreement between the United States Government on humanitarian and technical economic cooperation, a memorandum on the financing of the TACIS programme between the European Union and Ukraine. Ukraine has been receiving international technical assistance for 11 years, which is provided on a free and non-refundable basis and is geared towards supporting the economic and social development priorities of our country. Overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, protecting the environment, protecting health, preserving Ukrainian cultural values, and ensuring the introduction of modern technologies in various sectors of the national economy. Today, Ukraine is actively developing technical cooperation with 14 European countries, the United States, Canada, five Asian countries, as well as the European Union Commission, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the United Nations Organization, with its specialized institutions. The practice of implementing technical assistance programmes and projects that are implemented on the basis of or colliding with Ukraine’s existing international agreements has shown that implementation of the provisions of the international agreement is not regulated by or is in conflict with Ukraine’s existing legislation. The absence of rules in the current legislation establishing the mechanism of engagement, use and credit taxation of international technical assistance significantly limits Ukraine's use of technical assistance from countries and international donor organisations. I would like to emphasize that the adoption of the Ukrainian law on international technical assistance will enable many issues to be addressed and, above all, create a legal basis for the implementation of relevant programmes and technical assistance projects. The bill provides a definition of the terms used in the field of international technical assistance, such as "donor", "recipient", "project", "program", "implementer", "use of international technical assistance", defines the mechanism of engagement and use of international technical assistance. Registration of projects of mechanisms, projects and programmes, accreditation of contractors, taxation and customs treatment, regulation of labour relations, which is important, in the implementation of projects and international technical assistance programmes. The decision at the meeting of members of the State Council on European and Euro-Atlantic integration under the chairmanship of President Leonid Kuchma of Ukraine, which stressed the need to improve the legal and regulatory framework for the inclusion and use of international technical assistance, such as the adoption of the law on international technical assistance and the necessary changes to Ukraine's tax legislation. It should also be noted that the programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provides for the development and approval of an international technical assistance strategy for 2004-2007, during which the use of international technical assistance is improved. The quality of such a task cannot be achieved without the creation of a legislative framework that sets out the standards that the community has a complex mechanism for involving and using international technical assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that the proposed bill will not only remove the conflict in the field of legal regulation of Ukraine’s external relations, but will also have a positive impact on the economic processes associated with further development and the provision of technical assistance to Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the deputy minister? You don't? Is it? Please sign up. Sign up. On board, please, the names of the national MPs who are registered. Mikola Noshchenko, faction of the Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs and Hard Ukraine. Get ready for Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u121	160 constituency, Glukhovsky. My dear reporter, the bill is really necessary, but I want to make a point in such a way that the technical assistance provided on a non-reversible basis, as well as part of the pivotal basis, is usually designed to, well, create or maintain jobs abroad, where this assistance is coming from. I'd like to formulate whether there's going to be increased aid through foreign consultants. Do you know how much a consultant costs in Ukraine one day? I'll give you $300, no rent, no transportation, no food. Simplify or confirm the effectiveness of such assistance, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u122	Can I answer that? Dear Mr. Noshchenko, I would like to settle this situation in this way. Yeah, you're right, we've been getting about $4 billion in technical assistance all along. This aid is provided on an irreversible basis, so they are paid by the funds and the organizations that provide it. Yes, today we are provided with both equipment and advice as part of our technical assistance. And the advice from this technical assistance is paid to foreign consultants. But it's the money of a foreign state, we don't pay a penny for it. And I think that's what we have today, when we have the State budget so loaded, and we're using this technical assistance today, first of all, for energy, for Chernobyl, for health care, even for culture. We, see, gave the theater to one of them, technical assistance was provided, second, third. Nongovernmental organizations are also given. I believe that today is a great help for Ukraine. And if they're paying their specialists, they're teaching our specialists, and then they're going to teach other specialists here in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u123	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of our Ukraine. Is there a Volodymyr Aleksandrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u124	Yes, as always, there is, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u125	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u126	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yavorov, Zovkva, Rava-Ruska, Lvivščina I have two questions for you, Your Honor. The first one. The point of this law is that there is a technical aid that is irreversible. If it's irreversible, let me think it's just humanitarian aid. With regard to humanitarian aid, we have a legal act that regulates it. If this aid is reversed, we also have a legal act that regulates leasing. Then why do we need this law? And my second question. We've just been discussing a very sensitive issue, and I have this impression that if, in fact, our government and our President have proved to be absolutely incapable of lifting Ukraine from its knees, is there no attempt to sign Russia's only economic space with technical assistance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u127	Thank you for your question, Mr. Yavorowski. I would like to answer that question in this way. Humanitarian assistance is also provided to Ukraine. But this is not just about humanitarian aid, which is provided in the form of grants, but it provides financial and technical assistance to various sectors of the national economy. And that's why we have today's Coverage of Chernobyl, and in health care, in Ohmadit, with a variety of other technical assistance that helps restore our economy, it translates into market rails. This is the first time. It's different. Today the Law on International Technical Assistance is clear, and 153 decrees clearly state what is the definition of technical assistance and the definition of all: the recipient, the donor and the technical assistance mechanism. So I think that the humanitarian and technical question is a little bit different. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u128	Mikola Alexandrovich Schulga, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Alexanderovich! Schulga, the Communist faction. I have a question for you. That bill that we are considering is written in such a way that the opposite side is seen as a gentleman who does not violate his obligations. But over the years, we've faced what we're promised, we're making these promises, and we're finally getting nothing. So if we don't have to write down some kind of safeguards that would guarantee us, if we're already in a relationship, it'll somehow be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u130	Thank you for asking, Shulga, you've expressed your point of view quite faithfully, because that law has been in operation for about two years now, in the Supreme Council it has been, then it's turned down, then it's passed again. The Cabinet of Ministers in 2002 dated 15.02, Decree No. 153 made it clear that there was no such thing because there were checks, and there were some misappropriations, perhaps for which people were responsible. But there was an order of engagement, use and monitoring of international technical assistance. But it's a decision. And we have international agreements. And now we need to regulate the legislation in order to have the law, and then we need to have the laws under it, and we need to take these issues into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u131	Jaroslav Suhi. Last question, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u132	Yeah. Thank you. I have a quick question. You know, international technical assistance, and that's the term that causes this opposition in the hall. [[There you can see it's written]] It is exempt from taxation, customs congregations and any other congregations, in accordance with Ukrainian laws. So I have two questions. First. Is it possible for you to go further after the adoption of this law to make changes and additions to the following tariff or tax laws? That's the first question. And the second question. Please tell me what guarantees? Is there any mechanism in place to keep this money from being stolen? Well, a., so people don't suspect they're somebody. It's in the mud for someone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u133	Right. Answering the first question. Yes, you're absolutely right. We now have two laws in the Supreme Council: "The One Customs Tariff", where these benefits will be reflected, and the VAT Act, which will also reflect all aspects of tax taxation. It's one of these major, painful issues, but, together with this law, these two laws and other regulations, it will allow us to regulate the possibility. To rule out any kind of violation. That's the first one. The second question is, I'd like to say that technical assistance is being implemented, and you can do all that that's being reflected. That's what technical assistance is for. But it's budget money. These are the funds we need to get out of the budget somewhere. This technical assistance is provided in order for her to be able to do so. And we could do it ourselves, but a little later, it's possible. Today, we have technical assistance that is available and that is available. There are priorities that are here in the expert conclusion there are observations. We've looked at them carefully, we'll work with the Supreme Council committees before second reading, but at the same time, we're now in the 153rd decree, and the law is reflected in order to have it. It was given where it was needed now, according to the socio-economic development of Ukraine. I mean, according to our socio-economic development plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u134	I thank you, too. Time's up, Vladimir Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please. Komarovsky Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please, from the Committee on Economic Policy, National Economy, Property and Investment. Head of the subcommittee. Please be there in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy on International Technical Assistance. It's an interesting bill, it has some contradictions. But the main thing, according to the committee, is that donors are governments, foreign states, international organizations that are helping us, they have to be sure of a firm order in this procedure. Today, it is regulated by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, but the government is proposing the adoption of the law. The Law has only 13 articles. There are also comments on some articles. I think that in the process of reprocessing to the second reading, these observations together with you can be corrected. In general, the committee supports the bill and recommends that it be accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the head of the subcommittee? Please sign in. If there is, so is it. Please, on the board. Andrew Schlell, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Vladimir Yeshchenko is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u137	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, there's a raging stream of smuggling across Ukraine's borders. And it hasn't stopped for the last few years, let's say, but now it's getting stronger, especially with a staff transfer to the West Ukrainian Customs, especially after a tax officer was assigned there. Tell me, will the introduction of this law somehow limit at least or regulate? Because in the Supreme Council, the task of halting the flow of smuggling is the most important task. Will this law work in this context? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u138	Thank you for asking. The Law applies to international agreements between governments and international organizations. And he's controlling this process according to the bill, and he's going to be in control of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, if the Cabinet of Ministers wants to, then international aid can go without taxing any goods. Everything depends on power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u139	Vladimir Yeshchenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u140	Fucking Communist faction. When I look at this bill, I'm asking you, as a member of the Economic Policy Committee, yet we've been looking at the question of entering a single economic space, which is what this law provides for close cooperation with Russia, Belarus and other countries that are entering, and it's planned to enter this economic space. And how do you feel about Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u141	Thank you. It is this law that will expand the base, as it were, of international technical assistance, because it will guarantee donor countries exactly the stability of these issues. No longer does the government regulate certain positions, namely the law. So I think it's going to give us an opportunity to get more international help, including with Russia, if there's a desire on the Russian side or on the Belarusian side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u142	Basil Nadrag, National Choice MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u143	Dear Vladimir Vladimirovich! This is absolutely right of you and the first rapporteur to say that we are already living with technical assistance. Today, the issue is to regulate it. But I think that the common experience and the knowledge that I have today, but in any case, also say that when we regulate ourselves and our behavior towards those who come to us with help, including this law, it is very common in practice that the assistants who come to us begin to determine for themselves who they will help, how they will help. And even when they get here, once they're agreed upon at the inter-State level, they're looking for their own partners, they're setting their own priorities on the topics they're dealing with. And when they're trying to explain to the locals that we have problems, but a few other problems, but they're less painful, or maybe more, they come across sometimes, here's my own experience of working with such programs. Sorry, you don't understand. We'll do what we want. And if we don't do what we want, we're out of here. But the same is true in general, so to speak, at least inappropriate behaviour. So I wonder if there is a mechanism in this law that somehow agrees on the position of those who wish to help with the position and vision of the situation of those to whom they will assist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u144	Thank you, Vasil Ivanovich. Here's a pretty interesting question. All of these positions, as you said, depend on the government, but certain international organizations can help, for example, a certain business structure. And there's an opportunity for abuse. But the arbitrator is the governing body that will regulate these matters. And in the law, they're clearly unwritten, and these powers are passed on to the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u145	Yuri Carmazin, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich! Tell me, please, what you see is being done at the customs office when the goods are being moved. Do you have any doubts about the article, such as, for example, the seventh tax and customs treatment, where it is recorded that goods are being moved across the customs border in the temporary mode of importation? And to ensure the implementation of an international technical assistance project, you just know that this is not taxed. And what do you understand by this body of control that will be under this special authority as defined in article 11? What kind of organ would that be, and how would you control it here? How will all of this be controlled? And will it not happen at all that everyone will transport anything except in the form of this technical assistance? I think they're sitting over these diagrams right now and they're thinking about how to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u147	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. First of all, it's not our law, it's a government bill. That's the first one. I have not been able to say that from the fourth to the second article, we support the decision of the expert board that these articles should be clearly written. And your opinion on translating powers only into the Cabinet of Ministers will also, I think, be wrong, so we should clearly define what the Supreme Council is doing, what the Cabinet of Ministers is doing. And abuses can be done under the most beautiful and good law if they do not control the process and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u148	Vladimir Volodymyrovich, thank you. Time's up. Sit down, please. On the board, we agreed on the names of the national deputies who signed up for the performance for 10 minutes. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, faction of Our Ukraine, to prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u149	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. Dear National MPs, looking at this law and recalling its history, and it was adopted on April 26, 2001, and then the President vetoed it correctly and returned it, I want to mention to us all the old ones: fear the Danites who bring the gifts, be afraid, because it may be a disaster. Woe is the same as the EP, which was discussed today, because there will be no free trade and because no imports of international technical assistance just as much as I do, I do not believe it will be. Although I read from the explanatory note that the overall budget for assistance, technical assistance for Ukraine amounts to over $450 million in the United States, i.e. 2.5 billion dollars if you believe this explanatory note signed by the Minister of Economics and European Integration by Schlapak. I don't believe in these amounts, for example, and I think they're mythical. So, about this project, I'll tell you that this is a better project than the one that was dedicated to the President, but I have a lot of questions before this project. There are countless issues precisely because international technical assistance is exempt from taxation, customs congregations and any other congregations in accordance with Ukraine's laws and international agreements. And that, the free-import mode, can be any abuse that can be predicted. There is a law in article 11 on State supervision of projects that says that control of its purpose uses is carried out by a specially authorized body, by other executive authorities according to their competence, not to mention this body, this is, excuse me, a lack of any control. So the law does not provide for control today. Nor does the law provide for the transparency of this mechanism. I would like to remind representatives of the Ministry, and I would like to remind representatives of the committee they have just reported, and I have very well reported to the National MP of Skomarowski, that in his remarks the President has previously made such things, he wrote: "In the event of detection of violations of legislation, international agreements and, or of inadequacy of the implementation of programmes and projects of international technical assistance with the tasks and objectives defined, the specially authorized body has the right to suspend the implementation of programmes and projects in an order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, by notifying them and of the violations detected.'--and so on. You threw it all out of the law. Looking at the President's signature, and today the government has been kicked out of the law, I'm saying that this is deliberately thrown out of this kind of thing, consciously, in order to prepare some bad things for Ukraine. So I'd like this to be cleaned out, it clears that in the 9th article, where it says that international technical assistance is issued only for the purposes defined by the relevant projects and, if otherwise not envisaged, by an international technical assistance project. Dear friends, there are a lot of things that can affect our budget that are already poor.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u150	Vladimir Puzakov. Puzakov Vladimir, Communist faction. Prepare the Suprun.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u151	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština Today, it is interesting to consider the issue of international technical assistance. Of course, experiments can be done, but this is not to be a follow-up experiment on its people. Why do I say that? Because we know very well that free cheese is only found in mice. And so much of the desire of foreign donors to make free financial assistance available to our nation is a matter of frank caution. I suppose and give God, as they say in the people, that I may be mistaken. After the adoption of this law, there will be so many who want to wash their dirty money through Ukraine, which is so famous for its corrupt structures. In order for this not to happen, I propose that article 4 of the "Involvement of International Technical Assistance Project of the Ukrainian International Technical Assistance Act" should be completed with the words "an international technical assistance donor must present the sources of the financial resources used to provide international technical assistance". I also propose to amend article 5, "State registration of projects of international technical assistance programmes" in the first paragraph, instead of the words "specially authorized authority", to write "Ministry of Justice of Ukraine" and to present it in the following wording: "Projects or programmes of international technical assistance are subject to mandatory State registration by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the request of the recipient and donor." Including these projects or programs in the state register of international technical assistance projects in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. As I consider the draft Ukrainian law on international technical assistance, I think we should support the committee's first reading proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u152	Sophia Suprun. The faction of the Democratic People's Party of Ukraine. Please. The next one will act if he makes it, Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u153	Ludmila Suprun, faction of the People's Democratic Party. Dear colleagues! The law is extremely interesting. But you need to look at the following aspects that can create gaps in legislation that no other effort with you can eliminate. First of all, I'd like to pay attention to the following. Under this law, both natural and legal persons have the right to receive technical assistance, and there is no clear definition of technical assistance today. This means that technical assistance, which comes in the form of money for natural persons, will virtually not be taxed because one of the articles of the law provides for the full exemption of technical assistance from taxation, from customs congregations, from any other congregations in accordance with Ukraine's laws and international agreements. In the event of misuse, it is suggested that this technical assistance be taxed. But if the law defines that, for example, money of 100, 200,000, a million come for some kind of support or scientists or technologists, and that's called technical assistance, then in fact, in Ukraine we give access to money that is not regulated, taxed and accounted for in no way. This means that such a loophole can destroy our laws that we have adopted with such powers, including the Law that applies to legalization and money laundering. If we adopt this law in this way, we can just throw the previous legislation into the basket because it won't work like that. We agree that it is necessary to clearly determine that such technical assistance may come from international organizations, but we need to list them, to give some sign that we can clearly understand which international organizations can consider technical assistance to be non-taxable, and which international organizations, such as animal protection or other, cannot use when counting funds into Ukraine by any kind of aid. Unfortunately, we've adopted a lot of legislation today that in many cases creates holes to make money that is not controlled today move through these holes, and we don't know legal or illegal, they have a source of income. Therefore, the proposal for this law is to specify such definitions in a mandatory manner. By no means accept the way it is now offered. And we think we need to have the money, we need to have the technical equipment. But under these conditions, we must first stand guard over the legitimate interests of citizens and the legitimate interests of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u154	Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, of course, do not have to refuse to help, but this process needs to be introduced into the legislative field. I'd say he's a man of two sides: one side, those who provide help, the other side, those who use it. And that's exactly what it takes to regulate legislation, and that's exactly what's coming out of it. It's about the first page. There are issues that need to be addressed in the process of preparing the bill for second reading, such as the identification of who is the owner of the aid. It says here that the donor is the owner of the aid. Thus, the question arises: How will this help be available, and who will be the donor? We also put the program over the law because it is defined in the program, which is the owner, who is the donor. So there are a number of issues that need to be settled in order to properly identify the owner of the aid. In particular, it is also important that the employment of foreigners in connection with the provision of assistance is possible without any permission. This also raises doubts. But most of all, I have warnings about those who use help. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed in the process of preparing the bill for second reading, such as the targeted use of aid, the priority directions for aid, need to be clearly defined. The mechanism for the use of technical assistance should be clear and clear. And he's particularly worried about that. And it's a matter of control over the use of aid funds. There are lazinesses that allow us to abuse these funds. And in the process of preparing for second reading, we need to close these slides in order to have control. Yes, there's a special authorized authority here, but we're all handing it all over to the Cabinet of Ministers, and we don't know how it's going to be used, which is going to be the control of this authority, the authorized authority. What will be the control of the Supreme Council? There's a question of control. And of course, the pain point of the bill is the immediate form of aid. It could just be a hole through which goods can go and goods are unwashed, and money laundering, and so on. So you have to write this procedure very clearly in order to prevent these abuses. So the problem of control and the problem of responsibility for the use of international technical assistance. In general, you can accept it in the first reading, in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u156	Thank you. Andrew School, line up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u157	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, in general, I like these illusions. He said there are holes, but the law must be passed. So we have a whole, you know, a border complex that shuts down, protects economic sovereignty, the economic independence of Ukraine, but through it is smuggling, although there's no word on how to regulate this smuggling. And here the bill is clear. There is a clear indication that humanitarian aid, technical aid, and other means of transport can be used to provide cargo or funds that can be considered illegal and cargo smuggled. Thus, in a country where smuggling unfortunately undermines economic mouths, similar laws do not have the right to go to parliament with such holes. We don't even have the right to discuss these holes. We have to cut off or go back to redrafting this bill, or not to consider it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, the review of the draft Law on International Technical Assistance has been completed, we will make a decision taking into account the debate on the day of the vote. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property protection is being announced for consideration. The reporter is Head of the State Department of Intellectual Property of Palady Mikola Vasilovich. The focal point will be the head of the Scientific and Educational Committee, Michael Kuzmich Rodionov. Please. The committee proposes such a procedure. For the reporter, it's up to five minutes. The answers to the questions are up to five minutes. For the co-reporter, three and five minutes. And the discussion here is not at all an offer. Let's, if there's no objection, let's say 10 minutes. You don't? Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u159	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration today, there is a bill by Ukraine to amend some Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property protection, designed to implement paragraph 2 of the final provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights, of 11 July 2001. The proposed project provides for the introduction to the Ukrainian Law of Copyright and Complementary Rights of the following normative and legal acts: Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act; "Pro advertising", "For National and Artistic Designs", "For Professional Creative Workers and Associations", "For Investment Activities", "For Architectural Activities", "For Printed Media", "Press in Ukraine", "For Scientific and Scientific Technical Activities", "For Publishing Affairs", and the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine "For Income Tax from Citizens", the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers "For Standardization and Certification". The bill first proposes to remove the inconsistencies between the provisions of the above-mentioned legislation and the provisions of this law. In addition, it is proposed to remove situations that conflict with the Law on Copyright and Neighbouring Rights. The Ukrainian Law on Printed Media, Press in Ukraine, Television and Broadcasting is proposed to complement the provisions that establish that violations of copyright and adjacent legislation are considered to be a violation of Ukrainian legislation and, accordingly, in the field of printed media, in the field of television and radio broadcasting, thereby increasing responsibility for copyright violations and adjacent rights in our country. The adoption of the bill will greatly improve the protection of copyright and adjacent rights, including works of architecture, works of art, literary works, broadcasts, or speech programs. The implementation of the bill does not require funding from the State budget of Ukraine. On the basis of this, we request the adoption of a draft Ukrainian law amending certain legislation on intellectual property protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, do you have a question for the reporter? Please sign in. On the board, please. Basil Nadrag, People's Choice Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u161	Dear Nikolai Vasilevich, I would like to clarify the following point on the changes to the television and radio bill. What is the problem? To this day, by listening to the radio and watching TV, you can see that the copyright of those who created the films is being played by those who wrote the songs as they can, I apologize. They can interrupt any advertisement, they can take a popular tune and write, I'm sorry, up to some agnostic words that are hard to translate or even understand. I have a question of the following order: these are our additions, the changes, they somehow regulate, including the responsibility of those who broadcast them? Because whoever created him got his money and left. But we're not gonna call them names, we're gonna see them and we're gonna hear them. If, in this case, you're suggesting that broadcasts, which at least 10 minutes can no longer be interrupted by any advertising product, we're already seeing art films breaking through. And unfortunately, there is again the question that the author may not always know about it. But the control authorities have to watch. Copyright is also the right of listeners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u162	Thank you. Indeed, the question is very important. Unfortunately, it's still on our television. Maybe there's a solution to that in our proposal, but I think you'll see, maybe you'll come up with some suggestions. Because this law primarily provides for the rights of the author, the performer, the poet, and so on and so forth. Practically, according to the existing legislation already in force in Ukraine, it is not possible for any television company to break out there, or, as you said, some engravings to do in one or another broadcast without the author’s permission. This should be provided in a license agreement between the authors of a television company, and there the author must fully protect himself, predict when it is, in which fates this can be used. And we're doing today, we're checking that the author has the right, because it's not necessarily the author who wrote the song. You know, they have the ability to pass it on to another company, another company, which could be the third, fourth, fifth one on that list. I believe that we are improving these issues in this legislation rather than before.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u163	Andrew School, Julia Timoshenko's faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u164	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear reporter, you know, protecting performers on radio, television, performers of songs is a very good thing, but a bit of a timeless law. The only thing to thank is that he is, but for a very long time he has embodyed himself. Because you realize that now, practically, you have to get an author's song. The author's song sounded on the radio, you know, you need to bring either a certain amount, or the producer has to do a good job. We have it all in the opposite direction: for the sound of this song, there should be a fee on the air for the person who wrote it or performed it. And by the way, here, among other things, is the problem of the Ukrainian song, so it disappears, it goes off the air. I can imagine how much copyright will cost for that list of songs that are currently being performed. To the extent that this is regulated by the bill and how qualitative it is not to be used, because I don't want to sharpen it, but there are some bi-reads here, multi-sensitivity is in certain positions. What do you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u165	Thank you for such a good question. I've been talking to our Ukrainian composer, Mr. Badger, I think you know him, I think he's one of the most important cultural actors in our country, and he's also asking questions about finance, what you said today. If it was in Soviet times that the author was paid for his works, then today, first of all, if I and any other company could reproduce, I have to pay for it. I think maybe that's not the problem with the law, because the financial relationship is defined by the agreement between the author and the company that uses this. I think these issues need to be addressed, well, in economic legislation. There are appropriate contractual standards. And I'll tell you that today both our composers and our right-holders are getting serious in this direction. And I'll tell you that our department is very helpful to them. I can give you examples of where we helped our Bilongahs, where they wanted to spirit their brand. And we helped, and everything's in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u166	Vladimir Cherniak, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Mikolo Vasilovich, I support the bill. Indeed, the contradictions need to be brought into line, reconciled, removed. It's all right. And that's what we have to do. But I have one question. However, how much will the adoption of the bill solve the problem of copyright protection, intellectual property, in terms of the responsibility of those who violate copyright? Will responsibility still be irreversible and fall like a domestic sword--administrative, financial, criminal responsibility? If it doesn't, it will be a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u168	Thank you, Mr. Black, for that. We talked to you about some laws in intellectual property. And the question that you're raising, I think, will soon be passed by the government a bill on the judicial protection of intellectual property rights. Because no property has the right to life if it is not protected, and in our country, including. But this law, which you just said is not very simple, it's very difficult. We've talked to you about some things, in the same compact discs, when they cross the border of our state and there's a suspicion that they're contraactive, so customs have to dispose of this product. But customs don't have any funds, and you know the problems of our State Budget, so today we're thinking about how to get out of this situation. In each, in a civilized country, this question is solved in this way, i.e. if there is a problem confirmed by the court that it is a counterfeit product, it is destroyed. Unfortunately, in our country, it's going to be very serious costs and we're going to be talking not only about disks, but you know Adidas, you know Philippe Morris cigarettes, they're stalling, hundreds of tons, and it's going to take a lot of serious money to destroy it. That's why we're offering, maybe it's going to be in another law at the expense of the right-holder, if it's Philippe-Moris, maybe we can give this product back, which is confirmed that the counterfeiting, and we've already talked to them, they're willing to spend the money on destroying this product. Maybe that's the way it is. Recently we spoke, held a seminar with judges, farm judges, unfortunately, only in the field of agricultural law, regarding appropriate protection, but today our Ukrainian judges are asking the question, "Who taught us? Who prepared us for the protection of intellectual property?".. They have practically experience, I think, five people in our country. We don't talk about judges in the regions anymore, and so on and so forth. Practically every case in our field comes to a higher court of commerce, and sometimes to the Supreme Court, and I don't think that's quite right. So, in the near future, we're going to propose to the House of Appeal in the State and..? consideration. And then, with your help, changes to the law on the court system. We would like to carry out the President's mandate to have a state-of-the-art intellectual property court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u169	Thank you. Time's up. Sit down, please. The chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, Mikhailo Kuzmić Rodionov, has the floor for the report. Please, Mikhail Kuzmich.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u170	Rodionov, Communist faction. In addition to what I have said, the Committee on Education and Science at its meeting has considered the proposed project and has invited the National Deputies to endorse it in the first reading. The same is true of the Committees: finance and banking; construction, transportation, and communications; industrial policy and business. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the bill is also with observations, but positive, and financial supplements, as it was said, do not need. There's a note other than the Science and Technology Department. I think they're right, but most of them are editorial. But the people's deputies also have a committee like this moment. Lawmakers try to improve the laws in which they make changes every time they change laws. For example, I think there is such a contradictory improvement in the Architectural Activities Act. For example, "creatures of architecture" is proposed to be replaced by the phrase "objects of architectural activity". It reminds me, for example, of the moment when instead of literature, we say "objects of literary activity." Although this may be a contradiction, I think the works of architecture are, for example, the Council of Sofia. And if objects of architectural activity are, for example, greenhouses in Chrystec, what they call a dome, which they did in Chrystec. It's probably one of those positions. Second position. What Vladimir Aleksandrovich said about protection, however, was a violation of rights. It's still another law of competence, it's a law that we passed with you in the summer, a great law for the protection of intellectual property rights, where such precautions are great. And with regard to this law, I think, if it's also complemented by MPs, the committee believes that this law is said to eliminate gaps, which there is no reference to the copyright law that has long been passed in other laws, where there is also intellectual property. Therefore, we believe that if approved, he can be accepted as a basis in the first reading, taking into account the observations and the management, and those likely to be from the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Any questions to Michael Kuzmich? Please sign up. On the board, please have a name. Vladimir Yeshchenko, please. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u172	Fucking Communist faction. Mikhail Kuzmić, I fully support your draft Supreme Council decision to adopt this bill. But I also have a question. As you see, it is regulated by amendments to Ukraine’s laws, and this is also raised by the rightful choice of inheritance and donations. We're doing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u173	Well, what I'm saying is that this law generally introduces all the other laws, a reminder that we have the basic law on copyright. With regard to this issue, it is a matter of amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the income tax of citizens. And when that amendment was made there and copyright subjects and adjacent rights were introduced, the developers considered that there was a point where the formulation of inheritance and donation was needed, but wrote that the paragraph worked on the income of citizens if the sums were obtained as a result of notarized inheritance and donation. It is not as if God sent someone to be his soul, as they say. Notarized inheritances and gifts.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u174	Victor Musiak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u175	I signed up for Musiak, he's gone. I was sitting in his seat if you'll give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u176	Sergey Doroguntsov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u177	Mikhail Kuzmich, I support the project reported here by the head of the department, and you objected to it, I support it. And I have a question. Please tell me, as an expert, you do not feel any discomfort, discomfort in connection with the fact that we have a dozen laws on intellectual property, and there is no such restrictive general law. For example, we have the Forest Codex, the Earth Codex, and so forth. And at the same time, there are codes or regulations, the Environmental Protection Act. It's a mediocre law, and then it's about the plant world, about the animal world. We don't have this general fundamental Intellectual Property and Protection Act, but we have copyrights and adjacent rights, trademarks and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u178	I agree with your observation, although it's quite written in various laws, but there's really no framework for such a law. There's no denying it.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u179	Baraniv Alexander, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u180	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Mikhail Kuzmić, please tell us how much this law will protect our intellectual property authors from the intellectual property authors of foreign property? What I mean. Well, let's see what movies don't go on the screen today, there's their authors, there's a book printed in Ukraine primarily by a foreign publisher or an author, because they can pay for it accordingly. So now it's time to protect our author from foreign authors. Whether this law provides for any advantage for national intellectual property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u181	Regrettably, these changes that are made to other laws are still changes to bring phraseology into line with other laws, where intellectual property is referred to in the Copyright and Neighbouring Rights Act. Here he plays his part, as they say, after all. Yet, your question is still more solid. I'd tell you that you need a law, too, probably a framework, but for the protection of a domestic producer. And these laws, of course, directly apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u182	Andrew School, please, the faction of Julia Timoshenko's block. One last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear reporter! I fully share your position that a framework law is needed to protect a domestic producer. But we also need to talk about a framework law to protect the intellectual property of our manufacturer. Because there are people who produce only intellectual products, and they are now the most vulnerable species of the population. It's because the creative potential is high, they're trying to sell themselves somewhere and trade intellectual potentials, but once again, I'm telling you, you can treat everyone differently, but now we have a former national MP who could only earn one of his songs more than he's earned for the entire history of his stay in this sessionary room. I think it's time. I'd like to invite a committee to prepare this law. And here I have this particular question. You put it out, but still why is it specifically in the first reading. You've given technical warnings. Are they more serious, more thorough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u184	First of all, I think it's the MPs. But I don't think we counted it all. It's the Cabinet of Ministers that's making proposals. And the people's deputies will have their own, but they'll have their own in the first. And secondly, on your second question, it's very important to protect the intellectual property of our manufacturer. There was a government committee meeting yesterday, and there was a program to protect intellectual property. And I have made proposals, and the government committee has supported them with this plan that we need now not only to deal with the issue of intellectual property protection one-sidedly, but we need a whole program on creating intellectual property conditions in Ukraine, because soon there will be nothing to protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u185	Yes, thank you, time's up. Have a seat, please. Let's move on to the discussion. Please give the name of the national MPs to sign up for the performance. We agreed for 10 minutes. I would ask your permission to continue the work of the Supreme Council, the morning session, for 10 minutes so that we can discuss the matter. The word is Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction. Prepare Vladimir Puzakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u186	Dear National Deputies! Yuri Carmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Solidarity, Our Ukraine. I think that the changes that are being made today need to be discussed in detail because we keep paying attention to secondary things. In this bill, I absolutely agree with the committee acting on behalf of our colleague, our deputy, on the fact that they have gone very far into the copyright law on objects of architectural activity. In my opinion, it must be ruled out, disagreed with the government because it is already on its way to a complete nightmare. I'm showing you the article 31st just as an illustration of a tiny little object -- the author of an architectural activity -- that's all that's being built in Kiev today, in other cities, these are all the stupid five stories, three stories, these superstructures over which houses fall and the houses fall, so the author of this activity is a personal impersonal right, defined by law, and you specify what rights -- the designation on a built object of architectural activity of your own name, the names of the co-authors. Ladies and gentlemen! But go for a ride in Kiev and see what is being built! It was absolutely right about that. When you look at it, it hurts for Kiev! And that's where we're going to draw up and write the names? But who else would have had enough to draw and write? But who could possibly write that? And we're going to accept this on behalf of the Supreme Council? I'm definitely making a proposal: if you take the first reading, it's Karmazin's proposal to remove this frost just as a frost, no explanation. Next. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pity that there isn't a Chief of the Supreme Council at this time that I'm addressing Hennady Andriyovich: for several years, I've been calling your attention to the fact that we, the people's deputies, are working in black on these texts of the bill. After the adoption of the law, this is our product, our intellectual property - the national deputies of Ukraine and the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine with its organs. Why, then, is our intellectual product sold by everyone who wants to: leagues, schmucks, and others, by everyone else, selling, printing, playing without any accounting for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, we may not be on the budget, we just have to get our share for our intellectual work, nothing more. And that's what the law allows us to do, and we're going to be self-financing. Why commercial institutions are supposed to sell the text of the law today, go down, look at the bookstore: they're selling our law that we've developed and adopted with you, and they're getting money for it. Who has the right, and why do you all sit and remain silent? The Department of Intellectual Property! In general, I have a lot of pretensions to this department because of this lack of control. And so I would like you to come forward today, Hennady Andriyovich, and I ask you that these issues and the copyright of Parliament, first. And the second is that if we write things like this down, we want to change in the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on profit. Sorry, about standardization and certification, in a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, to exclude the position under which the property part of the copyright to the State's State standards belongs to the State, irrespective of the sources of financing and development, this part of Article 15, is excluded from the provision whereby the State Committee on Standardization, Metrology, Certification performs the function of the owner of the copyright on State standards, as well as standards, regulations, directives and recommendations of international and regional authorities. I'm done. So I want to ask, if we rule it out, who's going to benefit from it, who's going to benefit from it? I'm going to the committee again: delete it, don't let me go through such things. Let it remain the property of the state, let the state receive any of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u187	A very topical question raised by Yuri Anatoliyovich. That's what I'm talking about. The word is given to Puzakov, Volodymyr Puzakov. Next Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u188	Vladimir Puzakov, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Kirovogradština It is quite right that we put into session the issue of changes to intellectual property laws in our country. Everyone knows that today, in the rapid and turbulent development of scientific and technological progress, the world will win, and a state that can protect its intellectual property, acquire scientific, intellectual activities of the entire population. The Soviet State has made an unprecedented breakthrough in the history of world science in the creation of an intellectual base to provide an industrial leap into a wide-ranging human civilization. The hard work of educational institutions, education, content of education, stamina, and the results of scientific discoveries, rationalizing centers, are recognized as the best. And no one could compare the world with the rate of growth and quality of scientific research, the increase in the number of scientists and scientists. At the heart of the development of a public education school, there were mathematical and humanitarian tendencies, and that justified itself. Now, even on the day of the 85th anniversary of Sukhomlinsky's birthday, they're beginning to say that no one needs math, but just Soviet demand, so it's only a humanitarian thing to do. It's clear to everyone that it's a crime. And we need to introduce into the law a requirement for the protection of mathematical and technical orientation in education. A large number of engineers, agronomists, zootechnicians, economists, teachers, and doctors in various fields have been raised. This gold fund is severely embezzled. An engineer, a zootechnician, an agronomist, cannot meet in the countryside, for in an insurmountable bush, destroyed tractor brigades, farms, they are simply not needed. The infrastructure of large mechanized farms has been destroyed. Is it worth the attention of the authorities that destroyed that impressive power of the state a great intellectual property of the people? Yes. It is worthy of the fundamental condemnation of the absolute requirement to stop the destruction of personnel in technology, in general and higher education, in a culture that has not created living conditions. It is this requirement that we add to the legislation on the preservation of intellectual property. It is vital that the law lays down requirements to study the causes of the destruction of the available ones. The human body, the technology, the direction of scientific development in order to stop it. It is necessary to raise the level of patriotism, that is, the general mood, the State’s interest in their activities for the benefit of the people, in the name of Ukraine’s power and independence. Because the value of the work of a scientist, an educated, intellectual, developed actor is spent, which means the lost attraction of science and the work of a scientist. There is no intellectual property protection under such conditions. If we don't make a major overhaul in this law by state security agencies today, Ukraine will be rejected in the Middle Ages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u189	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u190	Vladimir Yavorowski, Jovkovsky, and Yavorovsky Districts, head of the National Association of Ukrainian Writers. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to exasperate the deputy of Shevchuk, I will say the gold remnant of the national MPs who are here. When Alexander Mokedonski returned from his yet victorious march, the philosopher Diogenes sat playing with the sun. Macedonian comes up to him and says, "Tell me what to do for you, and I'll do anything for you." Diogenes thought, "Don't replace the sun." I think exactly the same can be said today by Ukrainian intelligence, creative intelligence, technical intelligence, that is, national intellectuals can say exactly the same to our power today. I would just like to remind the authorities that it was because of intelligence, the national intelligence that was declared, that the Ukrainian state, in principle, was adopted by the Constitution, and you exist, the honourable, and the ministers, and the President. And only because this democratic, peaceful revolution. Today, we should note the fact that there is a spiritual disaster in Ukraine. It's absolutely obvious. I lead the Writer's Association, and I know the most closely the bookstore, the protection of rights, for example, the writers. In 12 years, people have forgotten what the word "honor" is. I'm standing in front of you, who has recently published four books: "What a people we are." I didn't actually get a penny of the fee. What to say about other people. Once upon a time, there was a UAP or a WAAP, so-called, some money stayed in Moscow, for example, and I had something leaked to me abroad. They're completely abandoned today. There was an interesting idea here, and it's in this bill, that you have to write the architect's name on the house. I don't mind, although I'm convinced that if I wrote all the names right now, many of the existing ones might have killed themselves. I think if this position goes into the law, let's write from whose idea, let's say, this house is built. Because I'll remind you, my dear colleagues, that you and I have decided to build a museum of famine here on the stage of this at the Arsenal. Do you know what's being built there today? The Cabinet of Ministers is practically secretly building a building, an elite building for its people, completely ignoring our determination with you. That's why once again I want to say that today's authorities don't need intelligence and intelligence. There's a beautiful phrase that intellectual property is what's left after everything that's been stolen. Because of this, Ukraine still has a little intellectual property today, though much has been sold to the west for nothing. That's why I'm convinced that this delicate law -- it's very fragile -- has to be accepted at least. Then, what Karmazin said must be cultivated. If we don't protect our intellectual property as a nation, no one will need us in this world. Even the same Russia that's pulling us in the fields today, you don't know where. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Vladimir Kirilovich Cherniak. From the spot of the minute. Out of the way, please. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u192	Dear colleagues! In view of the adoption of the law on copyright and adjacent rights, it was necessary to bring other laws into line with this law. It's actually a technical question, a procedural question, and here, I don't think it's necessary to talk about it for a long time. We need to eliminate contradictions, reconcile them. And that's normal, that's the routine work of the Supreme Council to be done. But if you look ahead, you have questions about how to proceed. In this context, I think, first of all, it is necessary to ensure that favourable conditions are created for the production of intellectual property in Ukraine. This is a question that has many aspects. The other one. We need to create a copyright protection system. An accent, a system. Our composers, our poets, our performers, our sculptors, our architects. And thirdly, we need to ensure that rights are not ignored and that the will of the people, the will of the electorate, the will of the viewers, the audience is not ignored. Very often officials ignore this will. This has been mentioned several times. It's just that the disgruntled people of Maidan Independence. In this regard, I am making an offer. We need to adopt a law that protects the rights of all those involved in the creation of the Independence area and the construction of the ceiling. And on this ceiling you'll draw the names of the city's managers, the architects, the performers, the builders. All others, so the Motherland knows their heroes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2003-09-16-m0.u193	Thank you. Question completed. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. The evening session will take place at 4:00 p.m. Good luck.
